ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36680	We move to - Proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 (a) Croatian Waters for 2009 (a) The State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks for 2009 (a) The Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2009 is the Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this State budget, the provisions of Articles 174 and 175 shall apply. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was held: the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Law. Here are the lists of other committees that have scheduled the session, but for us to debate it is essential that it exists, that the Committee on Finance and the State Budget has discussed and the Committee on Legislatives. The others can discuss it in the morning or day, and then, as I said Wednesday, we'll decide. I ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia to further explain the draft budget to Mrs Jadranka Kosor. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36681	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Madam Representative and the Honorable Gentlemen Representatives. Here we are again in front of you after last Monday, this time with the 2009 Budget Rebalance Proposal. I believe that you will all understand the reasons why we are coming before you and we are asking, please, that the Croatian Parliament accepts the rebalancing that we have had to make necessary changes at this moment, primarily to ensure macroeconomic stability, but certainly to the purpose of what I was talking about and representing the government in the new mandate of what I am going to do today, which is strength and support for the Croatian economy. I will say immediately at the beginning that the rebalancing that we have managed to prepare, so from the moment the Croatian Parliament chose a new government until Saturday when we held a session of the Government's time was short. So that's what we've managed to prepare and what we consider the most necessary at this point. So, until today. In line with the needs but also with the fact that some of the funds in certain positions were insufficient. So we've made some redistributions that I'm going to talk about later, but we've also further reduced the spending side across all the ministries, i.e. the users of the state budget. I want to say right away at the beginning here's the rebalancing that won't be enough. That's certainly not enough. It's the conclusion of us in the coalition, so all partners. But so did all of us who worked on operating rebalancing. Therefore, as I announced at the cabinet meeting on Saturday, I will propose to the Croatian Parliament a meeting and an extraordinary session that the President of the Parliament spoke about earlier. I don't think anyone will mind the fact that it's a time when we all have to get stuck, we all work, we all do our best, we release all the energy, all the knowledge if possible, and we all work together. I absolutely urge and appeal to do so, that if it is possible by the end of this month, we would also adopt a new rebalancing. Because in order to make deep cuts and changes that are necessary to keep us on our feet, so that we do not seek anyone's help, to prove and show that we have the brains, the strength, but I will also say the wisdom that is necessary in our own home, that is, our own backyard. I think we'll all get together and if we have to work all summer. This is what the government or members of the government are prepared for, but I must say once again and all coalition partners in the coalition that represents the budget rebalance for you. About the conditions in which we live, about the global environment, about the opportunities that we are naturally thrown out, and we in Croatia don't think we should spend any particular words. I will say only so that, of course, all that is happening in Croatia today is the reflection of events around the world and much stronger, the more economically powerful countries have a major drop in GDP and much stronger countries are recording really major disturbances. Therefore, I think it is no wonder to say that this is happening today and in Croatia. So, we are rebalancing which I propose and which will further explain ourselves we propose ensuring the stability of public finances in the current conditions and ensuring solid foundations for the further fight against the economic crisis and the current challenges, but above all to preserve each job. I must say with pleasure that we have discussed this rebalancing, that is, the most important indications and with our social partners, so with trade unions and employers, that we have received support for these measures that we are proposing today. I must say that it was an extremely good and quality meeting that preceded, of course, the government's session where all the circumstances were considered and where, I point out with special satisfaction, we have received some additional important and valuable suggestions. Namely, ladies and gentlemen, the macroeconomic conditions in the environment in Croatia have significantly changed and deteriorated compared to the time when the first budget rebalance was adopted. I know, and I am deeply aware that there will be a lot of debates today and that after one rebalancing we will go with the other and announce the third. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, if it takes 10, but we have to stay, as the Minister of Finance says picturesquely, above water. We're ready, as long as it takes, and how many cuts and how many procedures and how many re-consultations and arrangements just to stay really on our feet and not have to, I'll repeat, ask for the help of others. Of course, here I think, I'll say very openly, the IMF, but I personally think and I want to start by saying that we didn't ask the IMF for help, and that's what the finance minister was talking about, and I was saying last week, we didn't ask for it, but I don't think the IMF is the boogeyman and that no one should look into any consultations, but we'll do our job ourselves. The necessary changes and cuts make themselves, and that's where I seek the responsibility of everyone. So I said that the macroeconomic conditions relative to the time when we brought the first rebalancing change, yes, because the decline in gross domestic product, as we all know, was 6.7% in the first quarter of this year. And this is primarily the consequence of reduced consumption, but also the decline of industrial production, construction, trade in goods, etc. The decline of GDP, of course, is reflected in the collection of income and I must say, again, I have already spoken of it in the presentation of the Government in the Croatian Parliament, that certain forms of indirect taxes already include a reduction in the two-digit number, i.e. two-digit rates. Therefore, we had to revise macroeconomic projections for this year, and we predict that in 2009, the decline in real GDP will be 4.5%, while inflation will be at 2.7%. Based on new macroeconomic assumptions, we expect that revenue to be achieved will be reduced compared to the original rebalancing of April this year, and this is very clearly and openly to be discussed. In accordance with the new conditions, it is therefore necessary to adjust the budget. What we are proposing today is the redistribution of 2.2 billion kuna within the budget because the fact that we have established, so we are talking about the government in the new mandate, that there are no funds available, for example for shipbuilding, for salaries and regress of public service employees, benefits for the unemployed, but also for free textbooks, handball halls, etc. So we propose a redistribution of 2.2 billion. This was successful and we found additional savings in various expenditure items within various ministries of 780 million kuna. If you add this to 2.2, it means more than 2 billion, then today we're talking about 3 billion kuna savings. If we add to that the first rebalancing proposed by the government in the last term, which amounted to about 5 billion kuna, we now come to an estimated amount of 8 billion kuna. Ladies and gentlemen, I will repeat once again that all this is done and proposed is to preserve macroeconomic stability, mitigate the consequences of the economic recession, but also support entrepreneurs and preserve jobs. Therefore, taking into account the planned revenue and expenditure of the budget set out in this rebalance, the government budget deficit will be this year, amounting to 11 billion kuna and 3.3 gross domestic products, respectively. Ladies and gentlemen, since I said that we have additionally saved or additionally cut 780 million kuna, we have made every effort to really reduce everything that is not necessary for the necessary functioning of the state. In addition, with the reduction of the national team, which of course is only one of the savings symbols, further reduced by 80%. We have done many other important things, and I will say in this rebalancing, painful cuts, but we have proposed to the Croatian Assembly and the adoption of amendments to several laws. First of all, the law to which we, or we, have reached a decision to cut officials' salaries by an additional 5%. As you know, officials' salaries have already been reduced by 10%. The reduction of privileged pensions to representatives, but also to former members of the government, judges of the Constitutional Court, thus all that we believe will not cause further disturbances, but that it may be an important and clear message. Therefore, the reduction in preferential pensions is 10%. The government has also made a decision limiting salaries and other income from the president and members of the management of companies, therefore owned by the Republic of Croatia. That decision has already taken effect. We have made new decisions on use and on drastic restriction, better said use of official cars, mobile phones, travel, airline tickets, cards, so we have limited the cards only to ministers, or state secretaries, for official travel in the country and abroad, and of course we will be led by particularly strict supervision. I asked that this entire review of spending be deposited in the government, so in my office and that we have almost daily control of what is being spent, and what is this about when it comes to the funds being spent through cards. Then we made a decision to ban the purchase of cars to users of the state budget. In fact, I asked for a list of all the cars owned by state budget users. That list will be ready today, so we'll see what we've got here. Some cars redistribute where necessary, where there is a bad rolling stock. I also mean the fleet and the Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Among other things, we have agreed and I consider this one of the important steps forward, if possible, it will be realised by the extraordinary session of the Parliament. Namely, it is agreed to prepare a new regulation, the Law of Payments in the local administration. So, the Law of Payments of Mayors, Commissioners and Mayors. It was one of the major objections, I absolutely admit to the government that it is becoming one big disproportionate between salaries in the state administration and salaries in local administration. So let's go with that. It won't be welcomed with the approval at these levels I'm talking about, but I think it's time we put in order, as well as buying cars, equipment, material expenditures, etc. It is often seen and I say it very openly, regardless of who will interpret it or attack it, it is very often seen that some mayors or mayors drive better cars than ministers. Of course, I do not think that ministers or ministers must be the standard of all things in the Republic of Croatia, but that when we talk about saving, and even in this period when we have asked, asked and recommended that the salaries be reduced to the level of last year, when we have been having painful and difficult negotiations with the unions of state and public services, there have been examples and not a little at the local level where the wages have been raised and where the government has been said you are doing your job very clearly, nothing can be limited to us. So we're working on it. We will also significantly strengthen the surveillance of public procurement. It will likely be one central body that will oversee all procurement in the country, but we will, of course, do more when the time comes, if possible and we will prepare this framework for the session of the Parliament that we will seek once we have prepared a new budget rebalancing. Among other things, I have asked for an additional detailed analysis of our anti-recession measures to see what has been done, which is not, what else should be done if measures need to be changed, to bring new ones. As you know, we and this rebalancing, since there were 350 million kuna missing from the free textbook positions, we propose, so we proposed that through the amendment of the law, the abolition of this institute, but I immediately requested that the project be done for 3 days now and 4 ministries should find a model for providing free textbooks for families that are most vulnerable, so for particularly sensitive groups. We have come to the conclusion that it is about 42,000 and 500 students in the Republic of Croatia. The project is being attended by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, Ministry of Transport, because of course it is also about ensuring free transport, so we will see. I think there's room here, given the need to provide transportation to those who really need it, as well as to provide books, or textbooks. So work the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, the Ministry of Health and Social Care, but as I said the Ministry of Transport. And I'm sure we'll find that model. So far, about 65 million kunas are being worked out, maybe something more, but I believe we'll solve that problem, too. But, ladies and gentlemen, like I said, it won't be enough. We'll have to make more cuts. Some will certainly be painful, but what I can promise on this occasion that we will really take care of those who are the most sensitive groups in Croatian society, try to do everything to protect them. However, I must say, given the situation in which we are, which is difficult, that everything on the table, nothing is fully protected and we must examine everything absolutely. When I say nothing is protected until the end, of course I repeat not to think of pensioners who have small pensions, especially sensitive groups, such as families with more children etc., etc., of course all those who belong to the category of unemployed and those who simply have to get the support of the state. We'll take good care of that. What I can also tell you, I have asked you if it is necessary in this context to see that nothing is until the end of the world if it can help support the economy, therefore reviewing and any regulations that are eventually found to restrict entrepreneurship in any way. Of course, according to all the proposals made by the Croatian Employers' Association. I think ladies and gentlemen that we can go to this project full of confidence. There was absolutely a lot of difficult times, I won't mention the war years when there was no money, when we had at one point a million exiles and refugees, when we had destroyed, occupied Croatia in one large part, when we had closed many doors and when we had bloody aggression in which he didn't see himself at one point end. So if we could get out of those times that were most painful, then we can certainly solve these problems. I'm saying, we need to release all our energy and I'm using this opportunity to invite you all with suggestions, with ideas, with suggestions. You're all welcome. I want to talk to the leaders of the opposition parties about all the moves we're going to make, because I think we're in this business together. Of course I don't expect you to praise the government, but I expect you to suggest that you have the strength to sit at the same table, talk about all the moves that are ahead of us, because the government that I now represent in this place is the Government of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We're all in the same trouble, and we all need to get out of these problems together. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that the Croatian Parliament accept this proposal for the 2009 State Budget Rebalance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36682	Thank you, Prime Minister. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. The first is Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36683	Thank you. It is an incorrect quote from the Prime Minister: "All that is happening today in Croatia is a reflection of what is happening in the world." No, I don't. This is the result of six years of poor work by an incompetent Croatian government. ... So don't turn it off. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm gonna ask you to protect me from letting me... speak. And give me back my time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36684	Please. There will be debates like this all day. Let's not turn ourselves off, let's not be incorrect to each other. Let us be able and willing to accept and discuss each issue and have a word in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Let's not do these things. I invite you all without distinction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36685	Thank you. According to the latest International Monetary Fund report, the world is slowly coming out of recession, an economic growth of 2.5% in 2010, and a 5% decline in economic development in Croatia. I wonder how it reflects only the crisis, not the growth and success of the world? Obviously, it's also about autochthonal problems, and it's obvious that we are the biggest culprits ourselves, or not all of us, but incompetent authority in these six years. And Madam Prime Minister won't save us if we shut down 10 more light bulbs in the government. It's not a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36686	Thank you. We have a further correction by Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36687	Thank you, Mr. President. It is not true what the Prime Minister said that everything that is not necessary for the functioning of the state has been cut down in this rebalancing. The team's been reduced, the cost of the team, somewhere a thousand, somewhere a thousand and a half kuna. So, with the message, don't eat cookies. But at the same time, the state administration was knocked up, so only the spending of the state administration has increased by only 3 months by 4%, and household spending is decimated. So while the state calls on citizens, households to save, it still spends itself, even more.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36688	Thank you. Correction Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36689	Well, clearly, it's not just a reflex from the world. But look, we're already announcing the third rebalancing, fourth rebalancing and a few more rebalancing. So let's not embarrass ourselves with politics. Every week rebalancing one. Well, rebalancing is necessary, but what's announced every 7 days is one rebalancing, so it'll destroy the country. There will be fear, gentlemen. Public consumption will be halved and should therefore be serious. And let's not forget about public companies and those 30,000 employees who are employed from 2004 to today. But Croatia could do without any rebalancing only if we were to deal with corruption. There's the biggest savings.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36690	This is a classic replica. No, it's not. And I've already responded to that, every week one rebalancing. 52 weeks are over the year. We've had two rebalances so far. That means we have 50 weeks, maybe one or two, so 48 won't have a rebalance. And let's not caricate these things needlessly. And every week rebalancing, so please. Correction Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36691	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, the Prime Minister said three times in her presentation that today's rebalancing goal is to ensure the macro-economic stability of the Republic of Croatia. I ask you, Madam President, that you do not humiliate us and all of us Croatian citizens. That it is incorrect to ensure macro-economic stability with this budget and rebalancing, because strong cuts in education cannot achieve this. This is a rebalancing of continuity, a rebalancing of new large duties.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36692	Thank you. One more time and I won't engage in any more explanations and opinions. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am in difficult times, no matter who will name the causes and who will withdraw this or that or emphasize the reasons of this or those. What I'm asking you is the seriousness of these discussions, because we're not going to achieve anything if we talk as abstractly about this or that problem. We're all in these problems. And when we talk about the state, we're the state. We're not that we're not the state here in the Parliament. I ask that maximum seriousness, no one will or will oppose any criticism, qualifications, etc. May they be, but let them be within the context of something that is real and what we can do to improve our solving of these problems. Not talk for the sake of the story. Thank you very much. And I'm sorry, I have to say it. It's been a whole day, you know. Minister of Finance, Mr. Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36693	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. And it's not the first time this technical rebalancing of the budget comes to this high house. There were also during the coalition government, there were before. I would also remind you that this was a similar debate before the rebalancing at the 4th month. However, international financial institutions and the international financial market have given their assessment of this rebalancing and the best result and an indication of this is the successful issue of bonds from the Republic of Croatia. These are facts we can't escape from. And I'd like to say one more thing at the beginning of this borrowing. In 2001, the second, third, nominally had a greater deficit than is proposed in this budget. No one was talking about bankruptcy at the time, no one was talking about a break in the financial system. You can see that after all because the budget is official documents. But what is the basis for this budget? So, above all, the decline in the real growth of gross domestic product in the first quarter, which is also the characteristic of most countries in our environment, including the most developed European countries. So we also predict that the economic downturn in 2009 would be around 4.5%. However, it is also very interesting when adopting budgets and budget rebalances and now this second budget rebalancing, while the government has not officially announced what its projections are, no one has gone through these projections. Since Saturday, when the government adopted a budget rebalance with minus 4.5 projections, you already have projections minus 4.7 today, etc. and that is why we have called this budget rebalancing, as I say, a colloquial or working budget of truth because these are simply relevant indicators that show what the situation in the Republic of Croatia is and which simply cannot be overwritten, it is what it is. And now all this that follows, and this rebalancing and rebalancing that the Prime Minister has announced is something that leads us to successfully finish in 2009. But what is most important of all these changes would bring their full implications and effects into the 2010 budget. But where does this one lead us to say the drop in economic activity of 4.5%? Unfortunately, in a nominally smaller gross domestic product than it was in 2007 and tax revenues of 60.8 billion as they were in 2007 fall by estimates to 58.5% in 2009. But if you look at only one indicator, and that's your trade down to a little bit of 17%, it clearly tells you why tax revenues fell and that you have certain macro-economic indicators that you can very much estimate. It is a reaction of the population to this situation and the consequence is a significant drop in value added tax and so to say the excise duty directly linked to the consumption that can and does not have to happen. So some expenditures are 2 billion and 140 more than in 2007, pensions 4 billion and 235, health care 3 billion 658 million. Or when you add up all these expenditures 12 billion is higher than they were in 2007 and tax revenues are at the level of 2007. And no matter what political options we have been and how we're being talked about in one way or another, that indicates what the essence of this rebalancing is, which is the essence of the second rebalancing and what we need to discuss. Because if you have more expenses for 12 billion than we had two years ago and you have exactly the same income, then that clearly says what the situation is. The effect of this budget is not as some say 780 million but 3 billion because there are certain expenditures that were incurred in the meantime, which could not have been predicted but are where they are, and that no redistribution has been made by the resolution ministries, that the funds for these expenditures have not been found, we would have practically increased the expenditure by 2 billion and 200 million because, in both the adoption of the budget and the budget rebalances, it was very difficult to assess how much guarantees were issued to Croatian shipbuilding, the business banks would, first and foremost, charge to the Croatian state. Did anyone in the 4th month know about the swine flu epidemic and that it would take 180 million for the vaccine? Col. Milinovic redistributed it within his portfolio. And so a series of other expenses. So the effect of this budget is 3 billion kunas and not 780 million kunas, so as we're told one way or another. So all of this leads us to a government budget deficit of 10 billion 974 million or 3.3%. When you look at how much a deficit was in some years ago he was nominally and gradually far greater than this. But then no one was talking in this High House left or right to lead us into bankruptcy, to lead us to ruin and to lead us where. However, unlike those of us who are politically defending ourselves on our side, the international financial market is so little more realistic, it sees the situation in the Republic of Croatia more correctly. This rebalancing and the next one will allow us to finance all needs by the end of the year. But most importantly, this will lead us to a 2010 deficit reduction somewhere between 1.5% and 1%, and when such projections see the international financial market then Croatia will finance its commitments, then Croatia will erectly welcome the end of the economic crisis, we will not be on our knees. And that's the interest of all of us here, no matter what political option we belong to. You all like to call on the statements of colleagues of Rohatinski. Well, my colleague Rohatinski said exactly what I'm talking about right now. Well, don't when he says it's great and when the finance minister says it belongs to one political option, it's not good. Read it from his last statements and you'll see that that's it. Because when you sell your securities about whether someone will buy them and at what price they will buy them, it depends on his analytical assessment of macroeconomic indicators and the results of the monetary policy of a country, because he does not buy them in mind. No one will give their 100, 200, or 300 million euros to someone because someone is cute or unsympathic but because they estimate that they can make money on these issued papers. And so that's why this budget rebalance that we could do at this point and in this time. Why is the second budget rebalance proposed? For the simple reason it requires certain legal changes. And since you have proposed some legal changes, I sincerely hope that around those key to Croatia's well-being, we will find a political consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36694	Thank you. We have two corrections. First, she is Madam Representative and Vice-President Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36695	It is an incorrect quote from the finance minister that this rebalancing is the usual rebalancing we've already had or what he called it the budget of truth. Given the structure of expenditure and cosmetic procedures offered by this budget, it is in fact nothing more than an announcement of the right budget, means further delaying the country's problem on the one hand. And on the other hand, this budget is actually a pure political maneuver to create an illusion that a rebalanced government is actually doing something the other day. They are doing nothing because this rebalancing, and even those you are announcing, will not solve structural problems in this country, as will not be resolved by the international market, the financial market. It is important to them that this country properly service its debts to them and they do not care at all and they do not care whether the finances end up cutting the wages and pensions that you will end up doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36696	Correction Mr. Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36697	The imprecise quote of Minister Shuker is that this is a smaller deficit than those of 2001 and 2003. Why are they incorrect? Well, because even the basics aren't identical. It's a completely different display of deficits than at that age. And that's common for the minister. He is trying to live continuously in the coalition government to find justification for his failures. There's something else going on. At the time, the deficits were the issue of investment, development, giving to the economy, keeping the economy. And here the minister represents the only theory, fiscally, to preserve the economy, in such a way that he cares about himself and doesn't care about the economy. These are not investment deficits in the economy, they are trying to maintain fiscal stability. But unfortunately with such proposals very difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36698	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the Committee on Education, Science and Culture will hold a session at 13.30 p.m., Hall of Stjepan Radić 133. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Environmental Protection, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36699	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs, MPs, Madam Prime Minister, honourable ministers. The Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament discussed at a joint session held on 13 July 2009 the proposal to amend and supplement the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009. As well as the proposal to amend and supplement the Financial Plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2009 which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 11 July 2009. The Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction on the basis of Article 140 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the amendment and addition of the State budget for 2009 as interested working bodies. In his opening statement, the proposaler's representative pointed out that the decline in global economic activity and environmental developments are reflected in economic activity in Croatia and that a realistic reduction in gross domestic product of 4.5% is expected throughout 2009. The new State budget 2009 revenue plan is based on planned macroeconomic developments, the achievements of revenues in 2009 and the expectations of moving individual revenues by the end of the year. Under the new plan, total revenues for 2009 amount to 109.8 billion kuna, down from 6.8 billion kuna compared to the plan. The overall expenditure reduces by 780.6 million kuna and amounts to $120.8 billion. The total planned revenue and expenditure of the State budget, the planned deficit of the 2009 State budget, amounts to 11 billion kuna or 3.3% of the estimated gross domestic product. The planned funds for the division of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction are reduced by 44 million 960 thousand 656 kuna and amounting to 436 million 190 thousand and 458 kuna. Within this division, the largest part of the reduction refers to the ministry's head, which now amounts to 267 million 623 thousand and 6 kuna in a reduction of 38 million, 88 thousand 941 kuna. The planned funds for the head of the legal services agency are the real estate interventions by 5 million 894 thousand 858 kuna, amounting to 153 million 355 thousand 767 kuna and for the head of the environmental protection agency are reduced by 976 thousand 857 kuna, amounting to 15 million 211 thousand 685 kuna. For the head protection and conservation of nature in the division of the Ministry of Culture, a reduction of 600 thousand kuna was planned, and the funds for these purposes now amount to 71 million 339 thousand 272 kuna. Amendments to the Financial Plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund were planned for 2009 for a total revenue of 1 million 129 thousand 735 kuna. Total expenditure of 906 million 399 thousand 369 kuna, i.e. surplus of 223 million 335 thousand 631 kuna. The debate raised a question of justification for the adoption of this rebalancing with the recent announced third rebalancing of the 2009 State budget. After the debate, the committees voted mostly with 7 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 1 vote abstention and a 7-vote Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction decided to propose amendments and additions to the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009. The Committee on Environmental Protection decided by a majority vote, 7 votes to, 1 vote against, 1 vote abstention, to propose to the Croatian Assembly a decision on granting consent to amendments and additions to the 2009 Financial Plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36700	Thank you. Do the rapporteurs want it? Mr Goran Maric, on behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36701	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the esteemed President of the Croatian Government, respected vice presidents and ministers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At the 37th session held on 13 July 2009, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal to amend and supplement the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 as a home working body. Introductory Minister of Finance of the Government of the Republic of Croatia pointed out that in 2009, the spillover of the financial crisis on the Croatian economy was evident in a real decline of the gross domestic product with 6.7% in the first quarter. Data in the first 6 months of this year suggest an annual decrease in economic activity throughout 2009 and that industrial production is 9.4%, retail trade at little 17%, tourism nights 9.4%, goods exports 15.5%, and goods imports 25.5%. The proposed 2009 State budget rebalancing plans to cut total revenues by €6.8 billion and amount to € 109.8 billion under the new plan. At the same time, total expenditure was reduced by 780.6 million kuna and this operating expenditure was reduced by 388 million and the cost of purchasing financial assets by 392 million kuna. The largest expenditure reduction relates to ministries and other budgetary users who will reduce business costs and implement their programmes by further rationalising their business. The planned deficit of the 2009 State budget will amount to 11 billion kuna or 3.3% of the estimated gross domestic product, and will be financed by the difference of total receipts from financial assets and borrowing and total expenditure on financial assets and loans. Total receipts from financial assets and borrowings are planned at €22 billion and total expenditure on financial assets and loans are planned at a level of €11.1 billion and €11.1 billion at the level of the loan payment. The discussion on the board also stated that priorities had to be identified earlier that would encourage economic development and create assumptions for real income, and that we should face the fact that we are in crisis and that we can no longer live on credit. There is therefore a need for serious changes in economic and budgetary policy. In the discussion on the board, the opinion prevailed that given the current economic situation and the risks that threaten the financial stability of the state should be brought forward by the State budget rebalancing in question and that this rebalancing is a prerequisite for continuing the implementation of anti-recession measures. The new proposal for a rebalancing of the state budget should be adopted as soon as possible, taking into account, in particular, the increase in revenue by introducing excise duties on certain types of products, and the greater reduction of certain acquired rights in order to make the current crisis more painless. After the debate was held, the committee decided, by a majority, to vote 7 votes for and 3 votes against, to propose amendments and additions to the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009, but also to the following decisions. Decisions on granting consent to amendments and additions to the 2009 Financial Plan of the Croatian Waters, Decisions on granting consent to amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks for 2009 and Decision on granting consent to the amendments and additions of the Financial Plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36702	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Economy, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36703	Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister with members of the government. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The economics committee shall be based on Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the above-mentioned Amendments and Supplements to the State Budget, with corresponding contributions, discussed as an interested working body. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative informed the board on basic macroeconomic indicators, revenues and expenditures, as well as an assessment of the overall lack of the 2009 State budget. The negative economic movements and financial crisis in the world that overthrew the Croatian economy was evident in the real decline of gross domestic product in the first quarter of 2009. The decrease in economic activity in 2009 affected a 9.4% decline in industrial production from January to May at the annual level, the retail trade achieved a real decrease of 17% and the number of tourist nights decreased by 9.4%. Stock exports registered an annual reduction of 15.5% while the decrease in goods imports was 25.5%. The consumer price index measured inflation in the first five months was 3.6%. These indicators conditionaled on an expected assessment and a realistic reduction of the gross domestic product of -4.5%. These macroeconomic indicators, along with the recent developments in global economic activity, have conditioned a new State budget 2009 revenue plan of 109.8 billion kuna, down from 6.8 billion kuna compared to the current plan. Tax revenues, which are the most significant revenue of the budget, are planned to amount to HRK 59.1 billion, down from the plan by 5.7 billion. In doing so, the largest drop in revenue of 10.2% is the value added tax and the revenue from the excise duties of 738 million kuna. At the same time, planned expenditures of the 2009 State budget are reduced from 121.6 billion to $120.8 billion, down from 780.6 million. The planned deficit of the state budget, i.e. the fiscal deficit of the consolidated state, is shown to be 11.3 billion kuna, representing 3.3% of the estimated gross social product. The Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship recorded a 3.86% increase in financial resources compared to the current plan. Thus, the 2009 plan was €37.2 billion, and the plan envisioned these changes and additions to the state budget was set at €37.3 billion, which is an increase of €68.3 million. With the redistribution within the ministry, the largest planned index increase for 2009 refers to the Croatian Employment Service 16.18% while according to the proposaler, the funds to encourage entrepreneurship have been retained at the existing level. In the debate, committee members pointed out that saving is necessary in all budget segments, but that, on the other hand, in order to overcome the recession coming out of this economic situation where we found it necessary to preserve those positions in the budget aimed at encouraging the economy and entrepreneurship. In particular, given the price of capital and the level of interest rates of commercial banks, both domestic and foreign financial markets, the role of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development in fostering entrepreneurship and export support is highlighted. The debate also highlights the problem of non-payment, in particular public enterprises, which requires the balance of all the agreed obligations of the state and the creation of assumptions in the budget for the priority debt settlement so that the state does not become a non-payment generator. The Committee warned of the fact that the share of the state's business activities in the gross social product is more than 40%, i.e. that the state's share in business transactions is extremely significant, which is why it is necessary to serve all contractual obligations in a timely manner in order to prevent the insolvency of economic operators. The Committee believes that this budget rebalancing is only an introduction to a more radical rebalancing and welcomes the government's announcement that it should follow by the end of July. The key is two things that need to be the definition of new rebalancing. First, it is necessary to keep financing those investments that give rapid effects through new employment and profit of the economy and secondly, to ensure social rights, but only for the most vulnerable groups. It is certainly necessary to use the possibility of implementing a personal identification number to ensure that social rights and different benefits are obtained by only the most socially vulnerable and to prevent abuses and manipulations with different rights and benefits. The Committee welcomes the government's determination to maintain macroeconomic stability without the IMF's involvement, fiscal and overall economic policy measures, as well as the CNB's monetary policies, as well as this and the announced rebalancing of state spending and, as one of the anti-recession measures, create assumptions as quickly as possible to get out of the crisis. After the debate was held, the committee proposed, by a majority of votes with 6 votes for and 1 abstention, the Croatian Parliament to amend and supplement the 2009 state budget with its respective decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36704	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, Mr Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36705	Thank you very much. Madam Prime Minister with his associates. On the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament held a discussion as an interested working body in accordance with the provisions of Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the opening statement of the Ministry of Finance's representative, the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 pointed out that this proposal reduces the total expenditure from 121.6 billion to 120.8 and 780.6 million kuna respectively. It has also been stated that the budget rebalance due to the current economic situation has been managed to streamline expenditure and put them within the framework of new budgetary opportunities. A representative of the Ministry of Regional Development and Forestry and Water Economy pointed out in his presentation that although the funds for division 062 have been reduced, it will try to extend the contracts to continue the construction of concrete projects in the water economy to ensure continued work for another two years, and preserve jobs in that segment. After the opening argument, most committee members supported the adoption of amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009. However, the opinion expressed and the regret that this proposal reduces funds intended for regional development, which relate to concrete projects and activities aimed at regional development of small municipalities and cities. It is thought that these very small projects at regional level are a driver for development and an effective anti-recession measure. Therefore, some board members hold that the role and importance of the Ministry of Regional Development, forestry and water economy through funds intended for regional development should be more clearly placed in the future rebalancing which follows. The debate also raised the issue with regard to the reduction of budget resources, the adoption and implementation of the Regional Development Strategy and the Regional Development Act, which was planned for last year. Furthermore, the majority of the committee members supported, without much debate, the decision to give consent to the amendments and additions of financial plans outside the 2009 budget, and on the basis of the debate held by the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament, by a majority of votes of 6 votes in favour and 2 votes in favour, decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt amendments and amendments to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 with all other relevant documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36706	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Health and Social Care, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36707	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'll read the report of the Committee on Labour and Social Care. The introductory explanation was submitted by the applicant's representative. She met committee members with macroeconomic frameworks proposing changes and complementing the state budget. The rebalance is proposed on the basis of projection and annual decline in gross domestic product by 4 and a half percent, and annual inflation of 2.7%, expenditure reduction of 780 million and additional savings by redistribution of 2 billion and 200 million kuna. During the debate, board members expressed satisfaction with the fact that despite the unfavourable macroeconomic conditions and the global crisis, the health system provides social security and at this point is the only financially stable health system in Europe. This is the result of the implementation of a health reform showing savings and the reduction of the costs and debts of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance and the reduction of hospital budget debt. As the health system is highlighted, it is involved in a rebalancing with 430 million internal redistribution secured. These funds provide funds for the repayment of loans to the KBC Zagreb project amounting to 125 million kuna and, among other things, these funds have provided medicines for a new influenza of 170 million kuna. The health system is stable, debts have been reduced, and the system has not been producing new losses since the start of the reform, the board members warned. In this regard, even this rebalancing does not affect hospital restrictions and the renewal of hospital equipment, and this is all possible because income and expenditure in the health system are at present balanced. As health reform has already shown certain savings, it is expected to operate at the same level by the end of the year depending on macroeconomic developments. After the discussion, the committee members decided to propose amendments to the 2009 State Budget to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36708	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36709	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the esteemed President of the Croatian Government, vice presidents and ministers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Well, in recent months and days, it has been particularly public question whether a budget rebalance is needed, whether this is the kind of budget rebalance we need and what kind of budget rebalance we need. That we need her indisputable. The last rebalancing that was brought in was carried out in an assessment of the decline of the gross domestic product of 2% at the annual level. Apparently, in the first three months, data speak differently, and the drop was achieved by 6.7%. Industrial production decreased by 9.4%, retail by 17%, tourism nights by 9l4%, goods exports decreased by 15 and a half percent, and goods imports by 25.5%. Is this rebalancing and this kind of rebalancing a permanent solution also pressing a question? Of course not, but we've already heard the announcement of a new rebalancing. Was it supposed to wait with this other one? It was not necessary to wait, because this transitional period was necessary, because for a stronger, stronger change and a stronger cut in the rebalancing of the state budget systematic preparations and systematic changes should be made. And there's plenty of time for that. And these changes that have now been proposed by these amendments and additions have already required demanding and effective work by both the ministries and the government. Total revenues for 2009 are planned according to a new 109.8 billion plan, down from 6.8 billion compared to the previously planned 116 billion kuna. Of course, the revenues in the first five months fell in the state budget. In particular, there was a drop in value added tax revenue of 4.1 billion kuna planned, as well as excise duties, where they were reduced by 738 million kuna from excise duties. This rebalancing provides for reductions primarily in several main positions, which is 110 million kuna from the Croatian Railways, 25 million kuna in the construction of transport infrastructure, 15.5 million development of islands and coasts, 130 million other expenditures of budget users, official travel, intellectual and personal services, representation and the like, regardless of the observations that it is symbolic because it is still not seen that such a move is symbolic as some want to show. When the situation is difficult, any move aimed at reducing costs is welcome. Of course, there is no need to ignore where the most savings can be saved, and I believe that the HDZ club believes that the new rebalancing will also take over and calculate it. Following the proposed changes and revenues of 109, 8 billion kuna and expenditure of 120 billion kuna, the planned deficit of the 2009 state budget amounts to 11 billion kuna or 3.3% of the estimated gross domestic product. In this result, i.e. the shown decline of the social product 6.7%, and it is planned by the end of the year to be 4.5% of the large share of one company's non-payment to the Republic of Croatia, and this is one of the problems that needs to be dedicated specifically and it is unacceptable that some, because of their inefficient decisions, create stocks that are huge at above average prices, remain in debt to the state and at the same time meet the obligations of all others. The new budget rebalancing that is expected should not only contain a reduction in expenditure, but certainly should, as we have heard in the announcement, include an increase in revenue. In these times, the economy needs a process of harmonisation in market business because this global financial crisis still does not affect all people and all entrepreneurs. For some, this financial crisis is welcome. Some employers who achieve the net average profit of this financial crisis would dare even be shown abuses. Achieving profits and this nat average even extra profits, while simultaneously firing employees are not moves that fit into anti-recession measures at all levels. The Croatian Employers' Association as a social partner and as a necessary and good social partner often behaves the opposite of what they ask of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and it is understandable, the interest group and interests of capital with a general social interest should overlap in many ways, but they are fundamentally different and in fact very often it comes as 2 parallel directions that never touch. But we also read the other day a statement by a big company leader telling the public government from the headlines of the daily newspaper that if they introduce excise duties, despite having made an incredible profit, even 30%, 28% on their assets, to the total incomes of 30% which is unheard of in today's conditions, which is unheard of in the market economy at all, say that in the event of the imposition of excise duties, they will increase the prices and lay off employees. Something like that is inadmissible in this, by the way, let alone in these difficult times. It's not on the social responsibility line. Just the data, as far as the company is concerned, the other day I said that Croatian banks that employ less than 1% of total employees earn as much as 15% of total profits achieved in the Republic of Croatia. And this company employs, which is only 0.5%, 0.45% of total employees, and earn 7% of total employees in the entire Republic of Croatia, and 12% if only employees who make and earn profits are considered. It is a long-term but already short-term unsustainable state. In the new budget rebalancing, many things should be considered. It should also take into account progressive taxation. Our society has disintegrated and disintegrated. There's room to tax the rich, and a tax reduction to the poor. Progressive taxation has long been known in economic theory and is currently being applied in these situations. But it's not just about fiscal politics. Anti-recession measures should be implemented at all levels in the Republic of Croatia if we want to get out and overcome this crisis. And these announcements that we're in front of bankruptcy aren't right. The announcements that we can't get out of the crisis aren't true. We can get out of the crisis and we want to get out of the crisis if good anti-recession measures are taken, instruments and fiscal and monetary policies are used, and this urgent rebalancing is also on the rise of such measures and such instruments. It is necessary to reduce interest rates. It is impossible to imagine the growth of production and employment at this price of capital. Imagine, the other day there was a shipyard in debt at 13.5% interest. 70 million dollars. It's unsustainable. That way, no business can be done, let alone shipbuilding returns the capital that is taken at such an interest rate. Therefore, it is necessary to reduce interest rates, and it is necessary to reduce passive interest rates, because they have now become the main cause of increasing active and effective interest rates, because passive interest rates have increased even above 7%, making it more profitable to keep money in deposits with business banks, to take high interest rates, rather than invest in new productions in these particular situations, and the more or less invested in production, the more and more unemployed. Therefore, a selective monetary policy is also needed. When talking about compulsory reserves so is it possible that for a credit rating company that gets a credit for the purchase of another company is required to allocate the same amount of reserve as when you get a credit for production or technological modernisation. These selective monetary policy measures are necessary. We also very often listen to recommendations from various and to God-independent economists, experts, associations, interest groups where the government says to do so, it is necessary to do so, and it is necessary to even increase VAT. So one expert says if you increase the VAT by that you have 2 billion kuna more on the income side. Well, it can, if we increase and double the amount, then we'll have 4 billion kunas, but temporarily. I would ask that every problem be considered, but that when discussed and discussed the increase in VAT take into account all the benefits but also all the multiplier damages that occur by negatively increasing VAT, and only after systematic analysis to make any decisions about it. Very often, a large part of the expenditures are taken up by incentives. Incentives that, incentives are necessary and only in this way can we ensure a level of development in all areas of the Republic of Croatia, we can thus encourage agriculture or other activities, but also when it comes to incentives, it is necessary to consider this word of profession that incentives are not given by hectare, but by kilogram, because it will then have an effect as expected. Because in these cases, it also comes to the incentive of the one who produced nothing. So we heard the other day that some boast about organic products turned out not to be. The structure of the problem in the Republic of Croatia, economic problems are layered. It applies mainly to why the burden is high on this Government of the Republic of Croatia. Because of the unfavourable relationship between employees and pensioners. Croatia was in the '90s. The year 605,000 pensioners, today there are a million and 100. Croatia was in the '90s. One million and 700 employees, today one million and 500. This ratio is an additional burden to this government and which is the only one from which long-term measures can be taken. An unacceptable economic phenomenon is that a liter of water is more expensive than a liter of gasoline and a liter of milk. It is unacceptable that indifference is rooted in some areas of entrepreneurship, but we are still learning about entrepreneurship, of course because it is young for us. It has been, entrepreneurship has been interrupted for 50 years, and the greatest lack of an entrepreneurial spirit is affected by a complete one situation in which defectism is spread, sometimes unjustly, but there is also a lack of entrepreneurial culture. They therefore encourage the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Prime Minister's announcements on new recession measures, but these anti-recession measures should be at all social levels and implemented by all economic policy instruments, not just fiscal ones. If it is only fiscal then it will not bear fruit, because economic policy is only being implemented as a whole, and whether economic policy is successful or not it is precisely showing a gross social product that we expect only to grow. There are many variations in economic policy and fiscal and monetary policy, but it is not good to be in love with only one and that it is only effective and appropriate for all time. This is an unusual time, a time of business cycles in which economic crises occur every 70 years and therefore it is necessary to combine both variations and fiscal and economic policies, and the HDZ Club supports this, the adoption of the amendment proposal and the addition of the 2009 rebalancing of the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36710	Thank you. One correction. Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36711	Mr. Maric calls T-HT. Wrong. That T-HT threatens higher prices of impulses, have profits at an annual level of 2.4 billion kuna, all Croatian banks 4.6 billion kuna, but who sold T-HT to Deutsche Telecom? We sold it. And therefore, no wonder should be given to the wise, nor to the Germans, but to call on the Croatian governments. It's not the gentlemen who blame us for all the strangers. The culprit should first and foremost be sought in this country. That's the point, and then introduce a monopoly tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36712	SDP representative's club, Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36713	Mr. Vice President, presidents and members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. This rebalancing, even by the end of the month, has not yet led us to face real economic problems. The crisis and recession is seen as imported, as was seen through these arguments of budget rebalancing, not as an escalating of the country's problems, or the type of economic growth based on domestic consumption, rather than domestic production. This model generated high imports and consumption, public and private, which had no real income coverage, but in loans. That's how we got to over 40 billion euros in external debt and to a huge internal debt, which is mostly expressed as indifference. The result is a strong drop in purchasing power manifested through a decrease in retail traffic by as little as 17% realistically. Continuingly falling production since May 2008, unemployment has increased, and the gross social product recorded a record drop since the 1990s since 6.7% in the first quarter. Despite alarming trends, in late 2008 and early 2009, real measures remained to ease the crisis. On the contrary, Croatia was denied to be in recession. The technical rebalancing at the beginning of the year was only an alibi for the new country's record mandate, which the government has shown to the public as its great success. That we are in dramatic conditions today, points out the Prime Minister's resignation and announces even two budget rebalances in a month. Debt and indifference hangs over our heads like Damocle's sword. The only real authority in the state, the governor of the Croatian National Bank, says that the monetary government has done everything it can and that the funding of deficits and the refinancing of the debt is to be secured in this year by 42 billion kunas that the state cannot expect on the domestic financial market. Already reduced credit rating means increasingly unfavourable debt in the future. We can see the exit on two tracks. On the one hand, reducing huge public consumption and on the other hand stimulating industrial production as compensation for imports, but also ways of keeping jobs. That economic problems had already been strongly present in 2008, data on the continuing decline in industrial production and gross social product, reflecting financial indicators in the economy. In 2008, the net profit of entrepreneurs was reduced by 30% compared to 2007 and in the first quarter of this year, gross profits fell by as much as 52%, which will not reflect negatively on the 2010 budget when the tax balance for 2009. Evaluating the scale of the crisis in Croatia and Croatia, the Academy of Science and Art summarised them in 4 economic indicators. The first is low employment, which is measured by the share of employees compared to the working age population of only 45% and is among the lowest among the members of the European Union. The second is a high debt estimated as the total debt of the population and the economy to more than 55 billion euros, which implies the unsustainability of debt and problems in new borrowing. The third is a high foreign exchange deficit of 11.2 billion euros in 2008, as well as a current payment account of 4.5 billion euros. And as the last applied course and relative prices affecting relations between economic operators and the development of the state. The high level of public spending is not easy to reduce, as a large number of people depend on the budget. These are employees of the state and public sector, which is a large number of people who depend on social incomes, these are economic operators and agricultural producers. It is therefore necessary to define social and economic priorities before going into budget rebalancing. We haven't heard that in the presentation of the current government, we haven't heard that in the presentation of its programme, and that's not even happening today when we've been listening to the rationale of the rebalancing. Comparing the 2009 state budget, so the original one that we brought in December last year and these two rebalances, revenues are down 14.5 billion kuna, expenditures by 4.8 billion, and the deficit has been increased by 8 billion and is now proposed at a level slightly less than 11 billion kuna. The problem is that there are no changes in budgetary policy, but mainly through rebalancing existing items to the absence of planned revenue and overrun certain planned expenditures. And why is this budget rebalance insufficient and unacceptable? Because it does not change the structure of budget expenditures and will not solve the accumulated problems because the high deficit requires new borrowing for which we have not heard the answer today how it will be done. But it does not solve the problem of indifference as one of the most important problems of the Croatian economy. So, for example. there is no change in the policy of support to the economy used for populist purposes and buying social peace especially when it comes to aid in agriculture. To solve the accumulated problems, it is not enough to cut the salaries and pensions of government officials and tighten the belt on their benchmarks relating to representation, use of the official car, credit cards, telephones and the like. Rational use of these benefits must be a rule, not an alibi for to God's understanding and sharing of the burden of crisis. In the media, this rebalancing is called "light" rebalancing or cosmetic, but for us it is unacceptable, because the savings of only 780 million kuna are really insufficient. The real purpose of this rebalancing is the redistribution which reduces funds for children's allowance, for care, for defenders, for the restructuring and modernisation of railways, island development, sickness, welfare, health care, schooling, the funds for free textbooks, for the transport of students, and all to settle other obligations. A single increase in the money go for unemployment benefits due to a large number of inflows of new unemployed, which the government has not foreseen so far as well as for the guarantee reserve, as the state will have to pay off liabilities under guarantees. The rebalancing is based on a 4.5% GDP decline, an inflation of 2.7%. But there is no measure to stop negative economic trends, because cutting consumption is not a long-term solution, but growth in production and economic growth. In the SDP for almost a year, we are proposing measures to address the crisis, which are aimed at the economy and citizens. We warn that it is necessary to reform the tax and tax system, because it is unsustainable that the greatest burden of public funding is financed only by employees. And when it comes to increasing VAT rates, we think it is necessary to ensure a greater coverage of the currently unsecured revenues, i.e. revenue from capital and property because our Constitution also defines that public needs should be financed according to economic strength. State and public spending must come to terms with the real frameworks, it is clear to all. This means leaving non-productive investments, infrastructure investments that do not give back to a shorter period, and that the state should only negotiate those obligations that can be paid and for which the funds are secured because the state must not be a source of liquidity. The announced wage cuts in the public sector and pensions are estimated to be well analysed because the linear reduction is not good. The reduction of pensions based on the contributions paid may result in new claims and new debt. The proposed rebalancing of the state budget is not satisfactory under the current conditions and can only have a psychological effect on doing something, but it just paints the current situation and doesn't really change anything. That's why it's unnecessary, and we at the SDP Club won't vote to accept it. However, we hope that the announced rebalancing that should soon come to these benches will mean more serious procedures in budgetary policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36714	Thank you. Two corrections. Ms. Representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36715	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister with ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Mrs. Zgrebec, among other things, said it was incorrect to remove funds for free textbooks. Mrs. Zgrebec, incorrectly, precisely because the Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor, said that we have about 42.5 thousand children who should have and will be provided, a way and model is found through the three Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity and work and social care in order to provide about 45 million kuna for free textbooks and transportation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36716	And another correction, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36717	Thank you very much. In fact, I would correct the incorrect assumption that there is no change in the support of agriculture, they continue to serve to buy social peace. It's just not true. Most of the support is just aimed at structural reforms and we have witnessed that just over the last 4.5 years that a large number of livestock farms have been raised, that tens of thousands of hectares of new vineyards have been raised, increased production of milk and meat, therefore, all of this is a change, that is, all of these are structural reforms. And also, the question of investment support in increasing production, that it is extremely important in negotiations with the European Union because we are negotiating production quotas and the higher our starting points, the better the statistical year, therefore, the larger the quantity, we can expect more restrictions in production in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36718	The club of representatives of HSS, Mr. Representative, Vice-President of the House, Josip Friscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36719	Mr. Vice President, members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, allow me to welcome you and I first and foremost on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club. In the introduction and at the beginning of the address, I would like to commend what some disagree on, which is that here after 8 days, after the government was appointed in this House before us, there was a budget rebalance, that neither alibi nor 100 days, nor 3 months, but simply from the first day, from the first hour came into play with the problems and sought solutions. Here are a number of indicators that talk about the complexity of the crisis we are in and I won't repeat them. But I think one indicator that has a negative omen, though, but we're reading it as positive and it's not said about it, it's a decline in imports. Because the decline in imports is greater than both the decline in production and the decline in consumption and of all the other indicators that it says in one other direction. Because from the crisis as a state, as a society we will not come out when all together, the citizens of this country, along with their economies, but also all those who depend on budget spending do not understand and accept the need for inclusion. And if they are the appeals and the messages we have spoken, buy Croatian fruit and I think they are, they appear precisely in these indicators. Equally what is not said here today but there are exact indicators, data on how our citizens behave. They understood the crisis, they realized that they needed to save something kuna for the black days because in banks the growth is saving, not reducing savings, they still don't spend what we put in reserves but the reserves are increasing. The decline or decline in consumption of certain goods that many of us have known to determine the time when it will be obtained. It was a car and a similar means, and then it's certain that among the citizens there'll be one more good one in a year or two, so we'll be able to do that next year, or when this whole thing goes down and that's it. How do you look for exits? Surely the outcomes of the budget are to create the conditions of its reality to spend what is created and to be in charge of what will quickly create new values and create opportunities for its payments. Well, after all, it's the principle by which each of our successful economies and households function. It's certain that there's a lot of talk these days about what's going on with the IMF, whether you call it. Some would call him fast, some wouldn't call him. We at the HSS believe that we ourselves must first be the IMF. Because if these experts come, they were eventually in Croatia and we know what that means. This means setting certain limits above all when it comes to consumption that some countries or some governments have not been able to determine for themselves, so perhaps it is easier to interpret. You need to cut that much for health care, education, wages, etc. I'm an advocate of that and we at the HSS Club that you're that reality we first set ourselves up. But also not running away from it, because even when we were not directly in these relations experts came to Croatia and let us continue to be consultants whether we are on the right track. And their testimony about our journey certainly served as an indicator of those who created conditions for us to be able to create new responsibilities in the international capital market, which the finance minister spoke of and indicators of what we know. It's a little bit said. I think we should talk about it more. It's a liquidity issue. It's something that I always care about or put as a questionnaire, especially when it comes to state and all of that and those companies that are under state property or control. Because if that process stops, then everything that's underneath it sinks. And it's a good thing I heard today, that just by bringing international capital through borrowing outside was created, if I remember the ministers well what you said, two and a half billion in the banking system of space to place that capital towards the domestic economy. That's what we were talking about when we adopted the first budget or the basic budget. This is what we talked about at the first rebalancing how to create space for the state from the financial potential in Croatia to affect as little as possible, and the economy sets as much as possible. What has already been touched, which has been sent as a message to citizens, but also to many who are concerned, are measures in the area of spending where the state, where the government, where we, through certain decisions and certain discussions that we will have in this agenda supplementing package, can be affected. Because there's room for certain conjectures, and there's room for certain reductions in consumption. Because I'm the advocate of it. I can't have the head of agencies, the firm, everything else that's in the custody of one ministry being by everything they single out and spend above the minister. And that's where it's supposed to be done. Some will say there's no room for a lot of funds. But let us not forget that nation’s “no loaves unless there are grains to the grain. ” And regardless of who's talking about the light bulbs or the coffees, but somewhere we should have gone, and I think it's a good turn, and I think it's a real indication of what to do and how to behave. And I think that like many others, as well as the often debate when it comes to budgeting and spending too much time talking about the bulky side. We need to turn to the revenue side. We need to see where an extra grip can be made not to push their hand deeper into our citizens' pockets, but simply where we haven't put a finger on that pocket yet. There's a lot of state property in office, but it's not reflected through the budget. I know there's a part of it that needs legal regulation. But we expect to have that prepared by the next rebalance. Similarly, what has already been said here in the talks with the social partners should be open and realistic, and many of them must be realistic in order to achieve what we are talking about, in order to get out of the crisis and to revise their business plans. Because many of them write the expected profit or profit in the end to be 10, 12 and more percent, and these plans should be put into reality the moment we are in. Because on the one hand, it will reduce the level of commitment to those who meet their obligations. And on the other hand, those who take up funds so they can distribute them. Because we don't produce these funds, create the possibility that they're more realistically deployed with the intention to settle needs and obligations. And one more sentence. There's going to be a lot of talk here and there's already been talk about going to certain rights that are being introduced, we all have to agree, she sounded nice, but she needs to bring them into reality. I fall into a group of those when book regulations were passed that first order should be made, because far richer countries have textbooks that can be used from generation to generation. I used to usually finish elementary and high school what my mom used to buy books from other people because they were worth it. Maybe some page was changing. But there are those who are in charge of doing this and we need to make a clear scale and send a clear message that these are categories for which we will provide and ensure that there is no situation or messages now that we are removing transport, canceling books and that this is a fundamental problem and the issue of debate during the 7th and 8th months, because September is close. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36720	Thank you. Four corrections. First Mrs. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36721	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is simply incorrect that Mr Friscic argued that we will not leave the crisis unless all citizens are involved in its solution. It's simply not true, and it's not fair or fair. Because in this crisis, and for this crisis, we're not citizens, nor have they got us into this crisis. In this crisis, we were caught by the irresponsible, or rather by the lack of policy of the ruling, and the global crisis was only the trigger of this original Croatian product of the Croatian Government. And it is true that only fast and decisive moves by the Croatian authorities can draw us out of the crisis and, above all, in terms of increasing, i.e. the activation of Croatian production which can only guarantee our development.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36722	My colleagues and colleagues, please do not, under the corrections of incorrect allegations, express your disagreement and your valuable courts with the speaker. ... No, I don't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] A factical claim is one thing, everyone knows it very well, not under the firm's correction of an incorrect allegation, disagreement and criticism of the other spokeswoman's valuable courts. Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36723	Thank you. I hope to meet your criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36724	It's not mine. It's business.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36725	A colleague of mine said there was a drop in exports. Since this government is in debt twice as much. ... Imports, imports. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If it had come to, he said there was a drop in imports. Since the government is in charge, the current government has owed more than twice as much as Tudjman and Racan's government from 20 billion euros to 40 billion euros, and there is indeed imports. So, not only has debt imports increased, but debt imports are booming, and unfortunately, indifference is growing. So it's a correction to the incorrect assumption that we didn't import anything. The government has been importing debts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36726	We're just finding something and then saying that we're giving up what we just said. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36727	Well, I'd like to correct a colleague of Fristic's who said there's an increase in the savings of citizens. So in the 149 newsletter of the Croatian National Bank, it is unequivocally evident that savings deposits of the population are falling, that the savings deposits of the population fall, that foreign deposits of the population are falling, and the only thing growing is the foreign currency deposits of the population, but less than the rest of them are falling. Therefore, it is true that the population. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36728	Okay, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36729	Don't be a fellow Friščić nervous, you should read the data of the Croatian National Bank who says so. And there's less or less of a population who can afford to put aside for the dark days, because they don't have any for these days they live in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36730	And Mrs. Representative Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36731	Dear Frištic, it is incorrect that every year all new books should be obtained. Just in the laws that we passed here on the 15th of last year, it's been said that there's some kind of book keeping rule. The problem has arisen because of the boasting and irresponsible statement of the former Minister of Primorac a week before the elections, which is the government that you supported and you still support that all children, that all children can take home all books, that the old books can be thrown away, that all new ones will be bought. Therefore, the problem has arisen solely because of irresponsible statements, and accordingly it is not true that all books must be purchased every year. Our regulations speak the opposite.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36732	My colleague Lugaric didn't say that. A colleague of Friscic said that his mom was buying books and that they had been going for generations. Well, let's not, why. So pollemize, argue, but not under this firm's false allegations. And here's a colleague of Ingrid's whorely agreeing with this, and the view tells me that she's getting along deeply with this. She understood and understood that this was the way to act. Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36733	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The SDSS representative club believes that it is necessary to prepare all assumptions by the end of this month for the complete and at this point the necessary and realistic budget rebalancing, and this, according to our assessment, is not less than two-thirds of the estimated and declared deficit height. It is our obligation, our representatives, that is, of course, our obligation to our coalition partners in the government and that is the government's obligation under the circumstances in which we are. That's why there are two important arguments in our opinion, I'd say crown arguments. The delays so far have only further increased borrowing, increased indifference and at the same time maintained feeling, lack of feeling in most people in the country as the real state of Croatian finances and the state of the Croatian economy. And secondly, many call for the risk of rebalancing in the fall only to reduce its effects and provide an opportunity for the crisis and the consequences of the crisis to have even more harmful effects not only on the economy, not only on the management of state finances but also on the possibility of regularly paying salaries to employees and pensions to pensioners. In other words, it could be beautiful in the fall. And for that reason I repeat once again we feel it is necessary to do so by the end of July. Another argument is that a well-prepared budget rebalancing by the end of this month would seriously affect the elements of the deficit that exist in it have increased the already reduced credibility of our financial market and those who will obviously have to go in the autumn and this business has allowed more credibility to enter into talks with international financial institutions and other financial institutions. This is why the SDSS Representatives' Club proposes that, when it comes to the spending side of the government budget by the end of this month, before the Parliament's extraordinary session, some of the measures that we have today on the table are not covered. The first measure we think is necessary to make is to establish an emergency and strict control of the implementation of the Public Procurement Act in order to prevent the outflow of state money because we are witnessing that at least two basics and because of the absence of that control, the state money ends where it does not belong. For this reason, we propose that the average price mechanism establish a control of the way in which prices are negotiated and, more importantly, to stop and legally disable the practice of supplementary contracts for subsequent works after the basic contract has already been concluded. Secondly, we believe that it is necessary to consider the possibility that where there are justified reasons to go to the freezing of deadlines, to the works of those projects that either did not start or did not reach a high degree of completion and high degree of investment. Thirdly, we believe that it is necessary to implement it, and here we agree with those who have referred to it whether it is government representatives or people who are here, or representatives and MPs in the Assembly, to carry out an urgent and radical audit of the work of state-owned enterprises, especially where savings have not been made in accordance with the anti-recession measures already taken by the Government and on which the administrations of state-owned or public-owned companies have the obligation to do so. So if it is necessary to include such supervision and measures and the appointment of new administrations in order to enable these public undertakings to carry out their work in accordance with the interest for which they exist. We're usually against wage cuts and pensions. We believe that this is the last measure that should be resorted to, but we are about to reduce all other elements that represent a supplement or an imposition in relation to wages such as regression, such as Christmas Day. In particular, it is necessary to consider the proposals of people who are considering the justification of the extension of the contract mechanisms for the part which additionally burdens both the budget and which additionally burden the various other income mechanisms. At the same time, we also feel it is necessary to prepare a thorough reform of the pension system. Neither does a state that has a better state of employment and in terms of the economy as my colleague Zgrebec here spoke with information whose accuracy we should not doubt and could not endure this relationship as we endure. According to the data we have one four employees on 1.4 employees, one pensioner comes in. And we therefore seem to need to reach out to measures that all those who wish to return to work in this or that form of government should be stimulated by special measures, regardless of age and regardless of the type of disability. But it is therefore necessary to provide, in addition to the means, certain measures to stimulate this type of employment. This extension of the situation simply cannot guarantee any kind of more serious economic development, nor can it guarantee any effect of the budget rebalance that we can take on and on the basis of what is said and based on what many will probably say. As far as the SDSS's revenue side is concerned, it is also necessary to consider the following assumptions by the end of July for strengthening the revenue side, as advocate Friscic here said. We think that we should consider the temporary growth of VAT and we think that those from the academic community who advocate this type of measure as a temporary solution to the growth of gross social product in two continuous quarterly periods have the right. Risks exist and we are aware of that, but there are much greater risks if this situation is maintained because elsewhere it will show that the risks are higher when it comes to salaries, when it comes to pensions than if there is a potential rise in prices for a certain percentage. We also believe that there are already some who have made such a point, and colleagues Friščić and colleagues Zgrebec, we also feel it is necessary to introduce a property tax. It is necessary, regardless of political differences and whatever the subject of the dispute in one of the recent elections, to consider the possibility of introducing a capital gains tax. No more sense, no more possibility of even having some sense from the point of view of someone's theoretical or ideological understanding of things but no longer being able to, on the basis of work and on the basis of employment in a society that has long not been socialist, in a society that has long not been a society of work, unfortunately on any basis, that all the burden of taxation is actually still at that level. And those who suggest it and who have long warned about it, in our opinion, have the right, and for this reason we expect the Government to also introduce this kind of change, and then think about all the conventions that such a change can bring with it. We also believe that it is necessary to increase taxes and customs on luxury products, on expensive cars, on yachts, on expensive clothes and on everything that really represents waste and luxury inappropriate for the current situation, and if someone has, if anyone wants, it should not be prevented, but an adequate tax rate for this should be introduced. The same could be said of the opportunities created by the development of infrastructure projects. We have built roads, many of them have views that we are not capable of such a thing, but these roads bring not only direct, but also indirect economic uptake. One such is, of course, an increase in land prices in different areas. It is necessary to consider whether such intervention is from the budget, whether such intervention based on state investment from the state project is natural for those whose price of the country to rise within a year or two by several hundred percent, to remain with the tax rate as it was before the road passed. In other words, all possibilities need to be explored and tax policy needs to be explored in this regard to change. As far as income tax rates are concerned, that was already the case. We also think it is necessary that all those who earn more than 20 thousand kunas or how much an estimate is determined, that income tax increases by 45 to 60 percent. We also believe that the issue of subsidies in agriculture should be considered in a different way than we have done so far. The positive effects of these subsidies should not be stopped. When it comes to a small agricultural economy, it is not necessary to deny the necessity and effects of maintaining such households, but the question arises why we only do so with the Croatian state's budgets. Why don't we also do this with the pre-accession funds of the European Union? Why don't we step up that income dimension when we have real opportunities? But it looks like we're caught up in some kind of routine, some kind of laziness, and it's the easiest thing to do at our own state register, and reach out in other places that we're offered as if no one has the strength. That needs to be changed. The SDSS Club believes that such measures can ensure the regularity of wages and pensions and avoid reducing them. With these measures, the government could also avoid engagement, it could avoid a direct arrangement with the IMF. With these measures, the government could also secure a favourable position in talks with other financial institutions in Europe and the world. I know of some of those that could certainly be a relief when it comes to funds spent on providing returnees, exiles, refugees, and with this kind of consolidation that is proposed, I think that credibility would grow significantly and our ability to fight for funds on the sides where we don't have them right now would grow strongly. And finally, with this kind of measure, as well as others that we do not propose here, but which we believe many will propose in the same interest and in the same sense of responsibility for the present state and for what needs to be done, Croatia would actually enter the realm of the real world and meet its own reality. Production of deficits and conscious planning and investing in deficits is simply the production of a situation in which we and the average man in the country do not live in real condition or can face it. For this reason it seems to me that this budget rebalance is, and therefore we will take advantage of the opportunity by the end of the month, to talk about this topic, the opportunity to fight for real Croatia, for real life and for its real opportunities. And when it comes to textbooks, free textbooks, we are by no means an exception to the number of commercials, spent funds and advertising prices. Let the state take action in this regard and consider which parties can ensure that mechanisms are in place to protect those who are not given the right to work, high enough earnings, and a safe family, and safe education. If the state cannot provide budgets for free textbooks at this time, then there are other mechanisms for how the state can do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36734	Please conclude.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36735	The way it's spent on commercials, whether state-owned or public-owned, or private-owned companies, I see it as one of the directions where we could find a solution, even if it looks like a caritative one, but I think it'd be better to do it in another way, Mr. Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36736	Thank you. At 12.46, it was time to report a hearing. 47 MPs and MPs and five other clubs have been reported, which is about ten discussions somewhere without those supplements to discuss the corrections. We'll be working until half a hour, then half an hour's break, pick up at 14 o'clock for that big number reported so lunch can be done in 30 minutes. The dishes are ready and ready so it can go on tape. And now Mr. Representative Damir Cain, IDS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36737	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. And what do you say? You who commit to the HDZ, HSS, HSLS, minority representatives are the most responsible for the situation in which Croatia is clearly located. What I'm saying is that we knew more or less where we were going and we didn't want to tell the people where we were. And where are we today? I'll compare it to a river, like a boat? It's kind of like this. There's a ship. There's a waterfall. We can't turn the ship around anymore. The captain's clear on dry land. And now what can we do? Either wait for that queen to pull us through that waterfall or stick the ship into the left or right hill. It's pretty much like that, and whoever saves himself gets saved. I'm just going to quote something I was saying during last rebalancing. That's when I said the next one. Otherwise, a budget hole, that was three months ago. There won't be 5 billion kunas. The deficit is expressed with a figure of 4 billion 975 million kuna. She'll be maybe a lot, a lot more than 10 billion kuna. Who brought it to that? So we could have a hole in the budget maybe 20 billion kuna. When the budget was at the end of 2008, I was talking about whether the Croatian state, companies, banks in 2009 would return 9 billion euros. We clearly can't take it back. So the basic business that depends on whether Croatia will avoid the arrival of the IMF is not whether we will pay back the money. We don't have it, we don't have it. So the basic job is whether or not we're going to be able to extend the payment of the due loans. How on the other hand, we'll serve 28 to 30 billion dollars in imports if banks and businesses don't charge abroad for 5.6 billion euros in 2009. No one knows that, but without imports and the Croatian budget is also falling apart. The government's election in 2007 speaks. The external debt that gentlemen are on today was at that time 2 years ago 32 billion euros. We're only last year or this country came back last, so that was 2006. 7.8 billion euros. Over the next four years, we're going to return about 25 billion euros. Our external debt for 4 years will no longer be 32 but 50 billion euros. Someone said it's 42 billion euros on today. So we knew everything. I was clearly ridiculed, it doesn't matter why, it can, but where is Croatia today. Mrs. Zgrebec said this budget is cosmetics, it deals with MPs who have no cell phone, no car, nothing I know about representation, no card, no parking. We're in coffee business, we're in phone business. Someone said that this budget is demagogy, light budget, one word I'm going to say this budget is a cat cough. But what we're doing today and what we're going to do next months, I think it's just as unserious. Well, that's nowhere in the world. In the 12th month, we adopted the budget, at the 4th month of the first rebalancing, in the 7th month we will have 2 rebalances, after which, at the 9th month, the prime minister announced 4 rebalancing and perhaps a few more by the end of the year. That's unserious. That's what scares people. We're questioning people's consumption, and I'm asking you not to do that. How we started in this country, what I know six years ago, that's how we're gonna end up. But it's not good for us to write. And what should we do? Don't cut 10, 12, 15 billion but six, seven billion yes. Without those six, seven billion kunas, that's a condition why? Because it is a condition for the support of Croatia by the banks. A cut of six, seven billion kuna is also necessary to obtain some maneuvering space from the Croatian National Bank. Dear gentlemen, if what Rohatinski says is true, that Croatia must be in debt this year for $42 billion to finance a 14 billion deficit, I mean the loan payment, then the question of where to find the money is also raised. We can get two, two and a half billion kuna from pension funds today. From our banks maybe a billion, a billion and a half kuna. From the mothers of our banks Intesa, UniCredit, etc. Seven billion kuna. From bonds, but no more in Europe than in the Tokyo Stock Exchange, maybe two and a half billion kuna. That's $12.13 billion. So if the profits of our banks are 4.6 billion kunas, and they give us 8 billion kunas slowly and with them. This year's deficit was planned for 5.5 billion kuna. It's now called Rohatinski over 14 billion kuna. I'm not giving up 20 billion kuna. The expenditure was 11% higher in the first quarter. It's a problematic structure to fill that budget. In the first quarter -5%, but therefore tax revenues fall 20.4%. And that income tax is 18.5%, which will say jobs are lost. Tax on profit 12.33 is bad business it will only come at a charge. VAT non-working Sundays, fear, lower imports -23.03%. Sales tax, etc. The sale of real estate was -36.34%. Excises -24.34%. On the other hand, social contributions plus 10.58%. Salaries and fees go up 10.05%. The effect -6% is just starting to feel from the fifth month. Social benefits +11.27%, interest +6.29%, subsidies -21.87%. It's the first quarter. Or what it looks like translated into one comprehensible language. In the 5th month of 2009 compared to the 5th month of 2008, car sales can raise excise duties as much as we want -66.1%, alcohol 36.9% minus, gasoline -20.7%, supermarkets -17.5%. What's growing? The consumption of bread of the poor must eat plus 19% and tobacco 10.4%. Here's the tax on monopoly. Before I can tax the interest and take it easy on the property. Before interest, let us redefine before the property what Mr. Friscic was talking about, but fair enough not to have a social impact. Okay. Raise him from 22 to 24%. Cut the zero rate, no problem. But for all the food, for all the children's supplies, newspapers, etc. In the case of these social items, enter the rate of 10%. The payment deadline is equal to 30 days, so let's extend it to 60 days. On import, VAT shall be paid within 8 days. Well, it's a crime. Why? To destroy the little one to import everything for that little one the big one who has a delay of 2, 3 months, and the kid has to pay for it within 8 days. You can't do that anymore. And in that way, perhaps we can transfer the burden to the richer and little at this point relieve the poorer and preserve that social component. Gentlemen, when it comes to the budget, the story won't just fit in the state. The same fate follows local self-government. If the country's deficit is 14 billion kuna, and perhaps 20, local self-government loses between 2.5-3 billion kuna. All capital investments, I'm afraid, can stop. Local self-government can't even handle tax returns today. There's a lot of them in the roadblock. What do you do? Clearly, it's easy to say today to start production, but by shutting down consumption, we won't be able to do it. Exports can't be stimulated by recession in foreign countries, tourism is what it is, and Croatia can't be trained either, but I'll say if one Istria can build one ipsion without one kuna from the state budget, maybe others could. If one Poreč could build a room for 122 million kunas without a drop in the state budget, perhaps others could. The state gave, returned 24 hectares of Poreč to the country, they urbanized it, sold it, built the bypass itself, the hall, the school opened 300-400 jobs. One Oil State doesn't cost a single kuna. So why privatize this Oilman? Don't do this to us. I call it a crime against Istria, even if it deals with trade unions, administrations, locals, or I don't know which self-government. We are in the budget, Mr. Minister, talking about Istria, represented by 57 million kuna, and yet we have the largest export per capital, the most given to the state budget, the most participated in this foreign currency liquidity, etc. What do we do? First of all, we should avoid this demagogy so that the prime minister can offer only 24 coffees a day and that it is her team. We have to boost spending, so let's not touch wages, let's not touch pensions, somebody mentioned books. What's the problem? The problem is, we've turned these books into work notebooks, which my kid has to throw away that book and what the other one can't use anymore. The Deputy Prime Minister announces a 10% drop in salary. If it goes without a 10% social VAT, 2 points VAT growth, you know what that means next year? The books 1500 kuna more for one family with one child, transportation 1500 kuna more. If it goes down, 500 kuna times 12 equals 6 thousand kuna less per member. Two family members, a husband, a wife of 12,000 kunas less. VAT if it only goes 2% up, that's 4% for food, clothes, that's another 6 thousand kuna. So de facto one three - member family on this basis will experience a deficit of about 22 to 25 thousand kuna. So you know how much that is? Well it is no longer 10%, it is 5 average salaries in the Republic of Croatia. Our citizens didn't deserve that. That, I don't know, the citizens will take it, but after that, I think a lot of people in this country are just going to move. It's time that the PRs couldn't run politics anymore, that kids couldn't play politics anymore, because along with those who hired them, they brought them into this situation. We must restore hope to the state and to the people of this country, deprive them of fear. Someone used to mention deposits in banks, 195.5 billion kunas are deposits in banks. That's good, you need to believe clearly in the banking system. Citizens' deposits are 105.5 billion kuna and the truth is that they are now starting to fall, but they are 5 billion more compared to the same period last year. But that's why the companies fell. Deposit companies to 24 billion kuna. Who's saving? Unfortunately, again, someone will say I'm wrong, the poor for fear of tomorrow. Rich people invest. But company deposits keep going down. But then that means you won't invest, etc. And so the first measure, we need to find a billion kuna and co-finance interest to our businesses. Let's not tear down the economy and take care of it and trade unionists, we read 107 unionists have management contracts in Croatian Railways, not to mention salaries. The budget must be sustainable, not cosmetical, but it must be just, it must be social. You can't keep punishing yourself in this country just the ones that work. I'll say it one more time, be careful with those salaries and be careful with those pensions. Let's deprive ourselves of corruption. Well, corruption has been eaten by the gentlemen of this country. Corruption ate Croatia. Well, corruption, so there's almost no public business to keep some pink under the table anymore. Well, the only institution in the state that isn't corrupt is the Parliament. Why? Because we don't decide anything. And that's just the truth. No one has a cell phone, a card, a team, etc. Where's the corruption? In the executive government, in public enterprises, parafiscal funds from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, Croatian road, Croatian highway, Water. And so let's get them under budget. Now, if we did, it wouldn't be cosmetics anymore. And why won't we? Because they finance individuals and finance individual parties. I'm gonna say one more time that corruption just ate us. However, this government, I don't know the former prime minister, has no program to get out of the crisis. It all comes down to the ministry's misdemeanors, and one more question is raised. Who in this country is going to give people back hope? Everything needs to be put into function. Croatia needs to be decentralised. I mentioned an example of a Porec. So what do those unused military facilities do to us, land down the coast? So come on, let's get that back to the cities, let's boost the investment. If we don't put that into operation, then we'll fall through that waterfall and even cheaper after that, the foreigners will buy us, etc., etc. And for the end, as one great Croat would say, "let us guard the kuna as the pupil of our eye." He was not afraid of the Germans, nor Stalin, nor of the crisis, and perhaps this country should today, and all of this rest we know how it will end.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36738	Thank you. 7 Correction of incorrect allegations. Please report for corrections of incorrect allegations to stick to the one that doesn't pollomise with the representative, with its value courts, its grades, its assessments, the world view and others, but to correct incorrect claims. First, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36739	Well, here's a colleague of Cain's insisting that the number of rebalances scares people. Well, that's not true. So people know very well that this is temporary and that with the recovery of the global, European economy, Croatia will recover. He further incorrectly claims, saying he needs to give people hope back. Well, that's because the opposition hears the word hope, it immediately comes up with the Law of Euthanasia, you know?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36740	There you go. So let's not, let's correct the allegations. I appeal again, please. Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36741	Thank you very much. My colleague Cain said this budget was a piece of cake. I find the phrase very difficult to correct, but colleague Cain, your claim is simply not correct. This budget rebalancing is a confirmation of the responsibility and seriousness of the Croatian government, which within 8 days of obtaining confidence in this House is ready to make decisive cuts, in 8 days as the Prime Minister has said as much as possible. This budget is both a message and an announcement to citizens who are aware of this situation to what extent the Government is prepared to protect the macroeconomic stability of the Republic of Croatia and to maintain state finances in order to confirm that we are ready to make our own order in our own home. And we don't scare the citizens with rebalancing announcements, because what they would say if in this assembly the opposition was always scaring the citizens with evil announcements.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36742	Third correction, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36743	Thank you very much. In fact, Mr. Cain said that Istria itself is building an Istrian ipsilon and that the state has not helped anything. That's absolutely incorrect. For the entire investment, the state has released VAT payments. From the VAT release title so far, the state has invested 300 million kuna. Therefore, the people of Istria must know that this country cares for them, no matter how hard Cain tried to cover it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36744	Mr. Representative Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36745	I would correct the inaccuracies of President Caine's candidate who said that the state, or that the Uljanik is doing business today without the help of the state and that he doesn't need the help of the state. The oil business today, but the Uljanik state has also helped, not this year, but before that, and it has never helped the textile industry in Varazdin, the wood industry or helped very little. Therefore, I guess I should say that all regions and all industries should have equal conditions regardless of regional divisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36746	Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36747	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Cain said that this rebalancing, the government rebalances people, that this is demagogy, that we don't have a vision, a response to the crisis, etc. So, incorrect are the allegations. This is a responsible response to the state that is in the world at all and which has certainly affected Croatia. There's also no talk of demagogy when she spoke here and Mrs. Prime Minister how important all that savings is, and so is she in her office, and in each other. So it's not demagogy at all. When it comes to not having a vision, or having the strength to answer these questions, Mr Cain, look only at the health system. Take a look at the health system of the Republic of Croatia, which thanks to the reform carried out by Mr. Minister here is present and this government is stable, does not create new debts and gives equally good effects. So you completely misread this budget here, and when you mentioned a return of hope, you said you were getting your hopes back. You, unfortunately, are colleagues of Cain, in fact, with this debate, unfortunately, have not restored hope to this people. I think we should look at the good side, not just the ugly ones and build on them hope and better tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36748	There's hope of salvation. Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36749	Thank you very much. My colleague Cain said, quote, "The poorer the poorer the money, the richer the investment." That's not true. The poor have nothing to save from, and the rich at this time have no investment. The truth is that from a personal point of view they invest, primarily in buying new companies and investing shares, but from a national point of view and from a national economy it is not an investment. Individual interests when it comes to investing in shares of other companies cannot then be investment. It's just from an aspect of individual interests. And investment in new production is investment from an economic point of view. This corrects the incorrect assumption, not as you just corrected it for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36750	And Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36751	In the context of his speech on the sources of corruption he related to the executive power, Honored counterpart Cain also mentioned the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and called for business to be transferred to the budget. I must draw attention to him that the Government did so in 2000 when the IDS had its minister in that government, and that since then it has been working on the benefits of the budget's insolvency and on the savings in the continued borrowing of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute so far. That's what he should know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36752	It was a correction of ignorance, but there is no colleague. The club of representatives of HSLS, HSU, Mr. Agent Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36753	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here are the press releases of the minister's words that this is a rebalancing of truth. I would say, however, that this is not yet a rebalancing of the truth, this is the first rebalancing that wants to confront us with the colorful lies that we have believed and, unfortunately, I would say quite successfully all these years of our citizens. But we all know that in a circle of truth recognition, it's good to first recognize all the charms of lies that can deceive our eyes or lure our eyes so that we can face what's real and what we think about reality. This is a rebalancing that unfortunately still does not predict radical cuts. This is a rebalancing that is currently predicting redistribution and cuts so that it can be compensated and that what has already come toll could be paid, and that the missing funds could be raised, but it is still not a rebalancing of radical cuts. And therefore, he might disagree that we are going through a technique or methodology of small steps and small cuts. I don't like the fact that this is actually a rebalance of rebalancing, so I guess after that, we should have a rebalance of the rebalancing, etc. in some kind of deaf infinity. I still think it's better to make a whole new budget or the next radical rebalancing actually predicts as a new budget because that's basically what the word is. But constantly from a new perpetuation and delay on the rebalancing of the rebalance of the real difficulty and what lies ahead. The question, of course, is speaking and metaphorically, but really, can we, by radical cuts, withdraw the depths or are we just going to cut the shallowly instead? The question is, are our scalpels long enough or too short for any radical cuts at the moment? Like the question is, are these scalpels even sharp enough or are they too dumb? The more unfortunately here, when we listen to today's debates and all that is being discussed in public, we will see that each of us MPs will want to cut, but in some ways they will try to avoid cutting off what is important to him, whether by his invitation, whether by his habitat, was by his career now or by whom he represents, which end, which region, which city, which may be an interesting lobbyist economic or other political group represents. The radical cuts of the lady and gentlemen are completely blind to who we belong even the opposition and the position from which we come, which we have been calling, who we want to protect in particular. It's just that we all know that deep sharp scalpels when they cut, then they have to remove everything that's sick or anything that breaks our strength, which is why we're losing our strength. And the fact is, we're losing our strength simply because of one simple thing. Almost 70% of all that is made in Croatia by a national product, national goods. So, JDP 70% of it controls political power, whether directly government, whether more regional, regional, local self-government, whether funds, para-state institutions, state-owned companies. And we actually, with the fact that we have 80% of the budget already spent in advance, so fixed costs, we simply don't have the strength, we don't have the breaths to breathe and to develop. And when you look at the termology that you can see on the cigarette boxes today, then this is not light budget, this is mento light budget, or rebalancing. In fact, we just want to breathe easier to enable a minister who, of course, is and has already taken up the obligations of shipbuilding, the hall and everything else, to allow him to breathe in these two weeks and then to get to the next rebalancing for whom I say it might be a better opportunity, and if you want to have a very political reason, because it is about the new government that then nature and a whole new budget. A budget that would actually be the first balance budget not only of income and expenditure, but of balancing our appetites, with what we can eat and drink with what we can consume. I spoke in the Parliament 9 years ago as a representative and today says that, regardless of Croatian governments, we lived as age and escapes, spending ourselves and what we produced, but also what we never produced. We spent what we thought we'd produce, but we never got to produce. Now it's time for employment, now it's time for really real userism, although it's summer and now it's time for us to just balance our incomes and expenditures. But that won't be enough, not even in the short term. Or if you want a balance with the planned duration of the crisis, it carries nothing if we don't have a consistent economic programme, which will not only be short-term as a set of anti-recession measures, but which will actually show what in this new budget or new rebalancing or radically as you want to call it, in fact we want to achieve how we will increase national goods, how we will raise those resources that are missing today and how this balance, or the balance of income and expenditure, actually, we want to use to encourage our development. Unfortunately, what we're talking about today and all of these macro-economic indicators, we're actually using at this point as something that's concentrated and as data that we can use in a few months. None of us can yet predict the depth of the crisis. Neither could the European countries that are facing her today, I talked about it last time. For example, Germany faces a wave of bankruptcy in the industrial area, primarily the automotive industry, but also the metal industry. If this is happening to Germany, the citizens of which countries and economies are actually the most adaptable so far in these 50 years, to all external circumstances, there are almost no or perhaps few world economies that have been so autoadaptive if it happens to them, then I am warning the Minister and the Government that we are in our assessments too optimistic and that only in the autumn will the worst tidal wave of crisis come and that when we go with the projections for a radical budget cut, then we have to do a little bit more pessimistic even more. Of course, I don't want to choke hope, but it's also about hope today. However, you know that hope is barren and deceptive if there is no cover and if it does not go against those indicators that are unequivocal and which you cannot rule out no matter how much you hope. Look at the fall in support of Obama in America. We can go on a wave of spins, we can marketing and PR-ski not know how to raise the public's mood, but if we're not aware enough and we don't want to face the expected depths of the crisis, then that hope will eventually go down, and the disappointment will be much greater. So we will support this technical light mental rebalancing aware that at this point it redeploys 2.2 billion and that it in some way gives us the breath to pay our short-term liabilities but we believe that as soon as it is certain, in the next month, the budget of truth, indeed, the budget of truth, that these must be radical measures, that these cuts must be sharp. What should not be suffered I will already say today that perhaps here you would ask the minister or appeal to leave at least those two areas intact. Certainly, education should not be engulfed in this radical budget cut and economic support should not be reduced. Unfortunately, I see that there is no support at the same level as last year for the textile, wood, leather, labour-intense industries and the export industry. We ladies and gentlemen can no longer eat our substance. If in the next year we will not reach mechanisms and direct support models in the export industry, then we will also destroy some of the exports of healthy and competitive. Therefore, I would really like that in a proposal that will now be developed for the next two weeks, we still have more hearing for education and more hearing for the economy. And finally we talked and I talked more about the spending side myself. I agree with colleagues who talk about the revenue side. I'm not sure, or I'm quite sure it wouldn't be wise to increase the VAT rate at this point. This would be even more detimulative, and it would actually further endanger the domestic industry, but we should certainly introduce increased excise duties, and even at the cost of that, I suggested it to the minister, so he replied that then we would not be able to control the border, certainly on tobacco products. Let's return the opportunity to smokers, I'm not a smoker myself, so I can smoke in specially divided rooms, but let's raise excise duties on tobacco products, raise excise duties on drinks. If the most social states of Europe, the Scandinavian states have high excise duties on luxury, if one Norway pays its entire education system from having high excise duties on drinks and tobacco then, my dears, however hard it is to say it, then Croatia will have to do so. And if in one Oslo you pay for coffee in the middle of town 50 kuna, I don't advocate it's radical but everyone who's been to Oslo knows what I'm talking about, and you won't find anyone on the terraces in the morning or very few people. And if Croatia has one coffee then in the tourist season 15 kuna but we are full of waterfronts in cities where unemployment is 25%, then I think that painting is enough for itself. Let's get bigger excises in here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36754	Who's gonna go for coffee if it costs 50 kunas, that's why they're not in restaurants. Good with aggs and escapes, we're the only ones who did something else, we've been incinerating something like an alai escape straw. Correction of the incorrect allegations by Ms. Biljana Borzana.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36755	Mr. Chehok, I am correcting your claim that the time has come for saving and cutting finally now, unfortunately that moment has come long ago only that our government has proved completely deaf and blind and has not responded in time, and that today many of the problems we would not have had. And by the way, I'm signing your rest of the debate in full, so now you're just gonna be a real hotshot, so at the vote, show what you really think about this sloppy rebalancing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36756	My colleagues, these suggestions are not suggestions for correcting an incorrect suggestion or exact suggestion. Now we're gonna stop the debate. ... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36757	Mr. Chairman, an esteemed colleague has injured Rule 409 of the Rules of Procedure. I can't be a real face, but I can be a gentleman and invite her to coffee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36758	This isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's a smoothing of the Rules of Procedure. Interrupt session. Continuation is at 14 o'clock. It's on behalf of the HNS club, Ms. Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36759	Dear MPs and MPs continue with the afternoon session as announced at 14:00. It is next to the HNS club, the distinguished representative Vesna Pusic. She's gone. She's losing her right to argue. Next up is the club of national minorities, the esteemed representative Furio Radin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36760	... i.e. the reduction of donations which, of course, concern parts of the society that we represent, means associations, institutions of national minorities but also associations that have always been close to us, and these are associations from, associations and institutions and government institutions with competences, which have human rights and other rights. [[Specially enabled.]] All those others that are different from most. From this proposal for amending and supplementing the State budget, we see that the National Minorities Council is reduced to a million, from a million 289 thousand 132, which means that it actually remains an index to 97.13%. Now I'm only going to talk about indices because it's going to be more understandable and clearer. Also, the Croatian Government's minority office remains on the 99.04% index. Human Rights Office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in index 97.46%, gender equality office in index 97.47%. The foreign ministry and European integration, to help national minorities abroad that we also hold, has not actually experienced any reduction remaining to 100%. We have some reductions in the return program that we consider important and important. The return programme of exiled, refugees and displaced persons actually decreases by 4%, 96.31%, but associated with this rebuilding of houses decreases by 57, 43%, and remains at the 57.14% index. If we look at globally what is most important for national minorities, it is that transfers, i.e. grants to associations and institutions of national minorities are reduced in this first one, in this first change and the addition of the state budget in this first rebalancing, decreases slightly, only 2.6%. We understand, of course, that this reduction is only the first, all the reductions we've talked about are only the first reductions because the right is, the rebalance of the state budget is coming soon to say so, too. And the very fact that a certain number of laws should be changed for that reason, which is why he is not coming now, will show that he will hit deeply and strongly in the rights both in social rights and in minority rights and in human rights. Of course we will fight hands and feet that this crisis does not fall on the back of those who are otherwise... who are otherwise vulnerable, on the back of national minorities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] National minorities who have been getting a little money before. Because these percentages that we had increased in recent years were percentages based on a base that was small and that base actually determined that the percentages were large but that actually the money that remains very little. I will sign what my predecessors have said and I will sign what my most critical predecessors have said and I must say that I understand although I do not justify that in such a situation that we are in today, in such a situation of economic crisis, worldly yes, but also our domestic as it is common to say our indigenous crises that are more difficult than many other crises, easier than others, because we have seen from Minister Schucker that there are countries in Europe that have a far greater reduction in GDP and that have, and that are located in a larger recession than we are, but with one, even Germany has a greater reduction than we have. But if we keep in mind the basics of these countries, then we'll come to a very simple conclusion. All the reductions that are now being said out of nowhere and I'm going to say as a layman, so there's enough economists here, let's all deny me, these reductions that have occurred are actually reductions that we need to make possible not to get us out of the crisis but just to get credit. At least we're told that if you would come now the IMF would say, he would say, you have 120 billion kuna of the state budget, you have to cut to 100. I'm telling you, if we're going to settle as many bills as we're going to have to say, we're going to cut ourselves to 100. Not what's being said today by reading smaller numbers. And we will have to say what the IMF says only that we will do it on our own without any pressure and most likely where we feel it is necessary. When it comes to 121 to 100, I assure you that in various ways, if we're lucky, of course, with various budget cuts, we're going to get there and we're going to do it ourselves. When it comes to the fact that I can't touch the rights of those who don't normally have any. And that I can't cut the minimum wage rights, to minimum pensions, then we'll realize that certain sectors of society are going to get quite an economic downpour. A shower that's not 20, not 30, not 40%, but more, just to preserve those other rights. So there's a very bad time coming for some sectors that live off the budget. I've always thought, and I've talked to people who need to, as with the minister of finance that I talk to friendlyly often, and I've told him it's clear to me that you ministers have to deal with savings, but saving is just one part of the story. No new tides, no new money, I don't know if we're gonna get out of this crisis. That's what I think. One family, for example, again my dear economists, take advantage of me if I'm talking nonsense, and I know that in the economy I can talk nonsense, but one family that is in a crisis normally will be careful to spend less water, less electricity, to buy less at the store. But I guess someone in the family will remember that he could do some new job, so he could have some new inflow in the house, so he could work overtime, so he could have another job. On white, on gray and black. It's recommended on white, right, so it's also carrying some taxes to the state. But it's a normal thing to think about it, to think about bringing some new values. We're recently and I'm sorry to say this, but it kind of stands in my heart because I saw that we put together some economic council, an economic council that went up to 20, 30 people. The economic council of 30 people is not an economic council, these are 30 people who will have five, six different opinions. Obama has a council of five. She's not Madam Prime Minister here, but I would advise her to make one council of three, four, five. If America can out of five, I guess we can out of three people and listen to them. Three smart people listening to them. Because the economic council of 30 people won't give her any advice. The Economic Council of three people may give her some kind of advice. If such advice is followed, I am talking about the economy of course, not reduced to finance, then we may be able to understand, and yet here I am helpless and yet I must say that I am not an economist, but I was in some places of the world of which President Stjepan Mesic spoke. He was talking about Kazakhstan, I was in Kazakhstan, he was talking about Azerbaijan. All these places have 30% economic growth, so to speak, annually. Between 20% and 30% increase. I've been there, they're open construction sites. That's where everybody competes to get to work. And now I'm going to say again something that a lot of people will blame me for, even among mine. In many of these places, there is no need to hesitate, let's be pragmatic, let's be concrete and be without prejudice, and let's say that word that Stjepan Mesic used to say, let's say two words, unsettled and you'll forgive me, Tito. Maybe we'll make some kind of a deal, 'cause it still opens a door somewhere. I'm not a former marshal's fan, though. He wasn't gentle with my parents at some times, but that name does open up some markets. That name opens up markets in Africa, Cuba, Asia. What are we gonna do, who are we gonna work with? Shall we compete with the Germans, with the French? Who are we gonna compete with in business? If construction sites are open there, why don't we do some jobs there? I know you'll tell me in this crisis everyone's going to go here, but let's try to go, we're small enough, Kazakhstan is bigger, for example. of the European Union. Did you know that? It's got all kinds of minerals, metals, anything possible in usable quantities, from halls to oil to everything. Come on, please, let's be modest and go look for some places where the paths from the past have already been drawn. Otherwise, the National Minority Club, of course, will support this little first savings and you'll let me tell you that even though maybe as a layman I've said some things, you who are experts might be able to pull something more concrete and clever than what I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36761	Thank you. I've read it before on behalf of the HNS club, the distinguished representative Vesna Pusic. Since she later entered the hall, she wasn't too late, so I give her my word that she speaks for the club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36762	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister and Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and colleagues and colleagues. In fact, it would be good if we could bring in some kind of awareness of what we're discussing here today. We're actually discussing a budget that will be in effect for two or three weeks. And from that point of view, I have to say that it's not quite clear to us at the HNS Club why it went to the debate and the whole budget procedure that actually doesn't have a chance to live up to it, because within two or three weeks, maybe less, they're going to discuss a new budget rebalancing, like one of my speakers said on behalf of the club about a true or true budget from which it could be concluded that this is an untrue budget, or that it's actually not going to affect reality in any way. And from that point of view, it could be concluded that the whole debate today in this House is one play or one farce since we are discussing something that will not exist and will not be done because the time is so short. However, we at the HNS club think that this debate still makes sense not because in any way this would be some kind of budget that will start to be implemented or something is going to work, because it certainly won't, but because maybe even from this budget if it has any purpose it can read in which direction it will be true, or the one in two weeks' time, the budget in which it will go. It will probably go in different and larger procedures, but the only thing left to make sense of this debate today is that from what is shown in just a little bit in this budget we conclude that the real budget that we're going to discuss later is really going to look. What's our situation? We officially have a budget hole of over 11 billion at this point. At the same time, we see from this proposal here for rebalancing that something below 7 billion revenues is less than budget revenues are planned. And at the same time, these slightly less than 7 billion, 6.8 billion less incomes are trying to cover themselves with 725 million reduced expenditures. Now, who's here, David Copperfield, and who's going to stretch 725 million reduced expenditures to cover 7 billion, so almost 10 times more reduced revenue. If this is an idea for the next rebalancing then perhaps this debate serves something, which is to warn that this is not where it should go. So it really doesn't have to try to prove to people that the revenue reduction of a little less than 7 billion will be covered by 10 times the cost. And if that's what you government gentlemen think, think about it a little bit more and try to come up with some other approach. By increasing the monetary mass by the end of the year, 7 billion. We also need to take care of that. On the other hand, it's already been here the last days of the agencies assessing the country's credit rating. Their position is as far as we know that they will probably wait some more time to see the true one, not this untrue rebalancing, that they will wait another month and if nothing is done to bring down the credit rating of Croatia. It then causes us such additional problems and extra costs in any attempt to borrow money that there is no budget that will manage to cover such a situation. It was about bonds sold in international markets, government bonds that actually represent just 6 billion debts. It's a number the state will also have to return. What we can read about, and I hope it isn't, and that's why I think the debate makes sense, let's say, in that direction, that this is not the intention in that right, but only in this false budget rebalancing is that of all the activities, education will be cut sharply. When we talked three months ago, we discussed in this Parliament last budget rebalancing I was on behalf of the HNS Club and then said gentlemen try not only to cut costs, but try to see how we're going to dynamicize the economy. So how do we make money? In that analogy, if you don't have money, don't just cut costs, but try to find a job, try and get a job. From this budget it is absolutely clear that work is not required. It's just a hint, though. We hope that in the right budget it will be truly different. It's just a hint, but I'll give you two examples or three. First of all, science and education are cut the most. Our only real chance of development by the deep conviction of the HNS Club is education. We have no other competitive workforce in these areas where we are. Therefore, for the stabilisation and development of the economy, we must have education as a basis. It's our export product, too. This is the basis for economic development. It's just a strategic question. Of all the cabinets, the most affected is the resources of science and education, and if you look at how the blade is cut through the cabinets, it could be said that there is no picture of a recovery strategy or exit from the crisis, but that it is more of a picture of the strength or weakness of individual ministers. So those ministers who have resigned or have not been or are weaker in the hierarchy have been cut more, and those who are stronger have been added to them or not cut anything or have been cut down. It's not a recovery strategy and getting out of the crisis. So first, we cut education, second, item, one small indicator, but in our opinion very significant, the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the withdrawal of funds from European funds. Just in fact, we had 80 million, far too little, 30 million cut and we stayed at 50. What does that mean? As a rule from European funds, the country must participate with 25% most often, between 50 and 25, but let's take a smaller percentage by 25%. With this cut to 50 million, we are in a situation where we can pull 200 million kunas from European funds. It's nothing, as you know, and nothing compared to the resources that are potentially available to us. But we've determined for ourselves that we're no longer able to do that, if we have to participate with 25%, and sometimes we have to do more, but let's just say that that's how much more benevolent the percentage is 25%. So we can't go over it. What's happening to us? It happens to us, and this is the third example derived from this, so that we are budgetaryly preventing ourselves from withdrawing the European funds that are available to us in a crisis where we do not know where to place the money for what our needs are. Why we're doing this is completely unclear. Does the Croatian Government estimate that we are unable to make quality projects for more than what is mentioned here, so for more than 200 million kuna? Is there any other reason? It's impossible for us to estimate. But it is certainly a very bad message and a very bad move that when we think about increasing VAT, increasing taxes, so on taking money away from our citizens and our economic operators, from our companies, we are reducing our ability to take money from European funds. You really need to explain to us why this is how it's done. The third example relates to this issue of fostering agriculture. In this budget they stand on something over 3 billion kuna. Incentives in agriculture, as is known to be necessary, our agriculture must be prepared for the new model that awaits it, the new model of incentives waiting for it in the European Union. We don't do anything about it. Therefore, we did not use almost nothing or minimal of resources from the European SAPARD and IPA funds for the development of agriculture. From funds related to regional development, from funds related to resuscitation of the village and raising the quality of life in the country, for environmental protection. It's all the funds we can use funds from, we haven't used them. We give over 3 billion incentives to our taxpayers' money, and we are not using what the European Union is offering, or what is potentially available to us with our projects. We're talking textbooks here. People's textbooks each year with one or two sentences being printed new to earn publishers and some of these publishers are billionaires now, to sell new textbooks every year, and instead of making some reforms, we cancel or say that we will assess which students will be able to get free textbooks, of course by reducing it to the least possible measure. What we expect, and not to talk about this false budget, but about that true budget, we expect and the budget must show strategic orientation. It is neither appropriate nor good to simply go by items and cut. It is necessary to change the philosophy of the budget, to change logic, to set clear priorities, which are priorities and priorities to finance that the structure of the budget sees the logic and strategy of exiting the crisis. This budget does not show this, nor will it be seen from the next one that will be much more drastic unless the logic of the budget and the logic of the reason behind the budget is changed, but only to be cut according to paragraphs. For this reason, the HNS club will not support this budget, and it is recommended for the government to gather some smart heads to make sense of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36763	Your time is up. Thank you. There is one correction, honourable representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36764	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. You said this budget was farce. No, he's not a farce, this is a comedy absurd because we're in a situation where it's simple for this people to explain that he's just continuing this rebalance of the budget, the continuation of the policy of Ivo Sanader and the government that brought the whole country into this situation. The only way out of this is to change such a policy, i.e. a new election. No budget rebalance, no new budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36765	Please, what's it in, you haven't corrected any allegations incorrect. Have a seat. Let's move on with the debate. It is up to the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36766	Dear Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Government and Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, for the second time this year we meet to discuss budget rebalances. I'd say that this word rebalancing used in another word re is also used in other directories, always means something more advanced, something better, something bigger, something I say, something better. However, I think the word imbalance should be used here because it is actually a imbalance of the state budget. I don't know why we even use the word rebalancing for these things. This is a real imbalance, not to say debacle of the Croatian state, the Croatian government was under the leadership of Mr. Dr. Eve Sanader or here's the heiress of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Every morning I come on a tram to work, just before I walked down to the coffee shop, and believe me, I'm impressed by the ergel of stuffed BMWs standing here in this alley next to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, so I'm impressed by the ergel of the wrinkled BMWs, one is reportedly untraceable to him, that was the Prime Minister for the merits he gained by bringing the state into this state, which his client bought him, so HDZ and paid four and a half million kuna. These others are seen here there are 15 complex here, now in front of the Government and the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia. I wonder if it's the Prime Minister or the Minister in charge and whether and when they used their own vehicle or the tram to get to work. No, they're not. I witness every day of dating and entering these vehicles and going and coming here to Mark's square, to the central place, to say, the Croatian people. Some live in the clouds and live in the clouds without seeing from this hill, I'd almost say holy, what's going on down there, and down there is a disaster. Where the denials were from either the Croatian government or anyone from Croatia on the inscription in the "Washington Times" on the theft of $500m in the accounts of the party or persons in Austria. Has anyone been denied by Croatian government officials? Has anyone explained to citizens that it has disappeared from the Croatian state under the inscription "Wahshington Times" that I quote 500m dollars. Are these the dollars that we owe, the entire Croatian people as a debt of $42 billion, how much do the Croatian state and citizens of Croatia owe? Every child in this country as soon as it's born, it's 10,000 euros. And that which is born and which shall be born, if no more. Because here's the statement by Minister Shuker and Mr. Governor Rohatinski, we're going to need to service the current or current debts of $42 billion. That's the new 7 billion euros. That is another 7 billion euros, and some macro-economicists who know the situation well and who have and to say the news and news from abroad say between 7 and 10 billion euros. So more. When this HDZ government of a 6-year-old continuity here is how we know, so with continuous rebalancing, I'd call it that, these are already continuous rebalancing, finally what we all know is and what all citizens should know, and that's the bankruptcy of this country. It's the bankruptcy of this country. And whatever you gentlemen say and protest it is, you know it well. Are we or are we soon to enter into debt slavery and citizens and states? Imagine yourself. Don't protest. After all, by the very act of bankruptcy, I would say one sadistic experience of the government and citizens' officials in the form of pension cuts, salaries and all that they have acquired. The Croatian state has a million and hundreds of thousands of pensioners. The rebalancing of the Croatian budget is not possible in phases, in wars. Like, I'd compare it as a surgeon with a surgical operation called laparoscopy, so two smaller cuts couldn't have been as much as one big cut, so people go to a lapascope to pull out the bile, and they don't go to a classic bile surgery. Here we go, in 15 days two rebalancing. So in 15 days, so today and 14 days, what's another rebalancing? Or a imbalance that will be far thicker, that situation will then be called a imbalance called a real name. We need money, gentlemen, not to preserve jobs in state and private services, in public activities, but money to produce and compete, to create new values, not to preserve public and public services to overcrowded employees. According to one study or one report by the IMF in Croatia, there are 45% of those who exist. That's why we're afraid of the arrival of the IMF because they'd say clearly and loudly, gentlemen, you can't pay with such a budget such a clerk's apparatus, and clearly that it's the office and voting machine of the ruling party, and then we don't cut and pay attention, so on this part of production, to this part of investment in new values, but we're going to cut who? Citizens. Peace. Is that what we have decided, not us, but the Croatian Government, in fact, whether the official state policy is the euthanasia of pensioners? If you cut it yet. Like in those Turkish times, what heaven says. Until heaven is silent, cut forward, 10 per cent. So, with those famous 42 billion, we are very interested in 42nd, so 42 billion euros in external debt and 42 billion in the new debt needed to actually serve clean cash losses and to service the stabilisation of the state. It is a state in Croatia as Hungary was in December 2008. It's exactly the same. What did Hungary do? In due time, it declared the state's bankruptcy, received 25 billion euros from the European Union, and slowly said it was coming out of the crisis. Croatia is too late to start. It is still a secret that Croatia or does not want to be admitted that Croatia is actually bankrupt. So I started talking about pensioners and all those who have over a million, who don't create a new value, have pensions and other incomes. And for this reason, I believe that even Mr. Schucker, whom I personally appreciate, cannot save us financially from this crisis, neither can our Minister Milinovic cure us, although he is a doctor, he cannot cure this budget. And I think we need to hurry as soon as possible to our prime minister, as soon as possible to get home to Rohatinski to get advice as soon as possible, or maybe some sort of repair, or recommendations as possible. We also have a great expert on macro-economics in Slavonia, so if we can't reach the governor, I would recommend a macro-economy professor from Osijek who's said some things about our budget and about the macro-economics of the Croatian state a long time ago. If it's necessary, I'll whisper the prime minister's name and the name of the macroeconomic teacher. Here's Mr. Dragan Kovacevic, he knows, he knows and we're going down. Former Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader has formed economic advice. How many economists were there in 20? Where's the economic advice now, where are the economic experts? Disperse. What are they doing today? Any word from them? Do they advise Mrs. Prime Minister now? Where is this economic world? For this little rebalance, a little slice and for this one that will come now in 14 days which is said to be a fat called debalance. And there's something else I want to say. I asked the prime minister in one current hour, what will happen to Slavonia, with an impact on the global economic monetary crisis that will affect the whole of Croatia, but especially its poorest and most destitute part, which is Slavonia and Baranja? He said there would be no reduction in capital investments, etc. He said that as the Peljeski bridge goes, the bridge will go through Drava and Corridor 5C and the Danube-Sava channel. So I wonder what's in it for? There's nothing. There is neither a bridge on Drava nor a bridge on the Sava to connect corridor 5C with Bosnia and Herzegovina and Hungary. It's not gonna happen. Trucks stand, jobs are gone, and no such business is planned in the budget or rebalancing, debalancing, whatever you want. And one more thing. Mrs. Prime Minister spoke to the peasants less than 15 days ago, 20 days ago, herself with the Minister of Agriculture and Regional Development, and who he wasn't. And it has been said that in order to support agriculture, in interventions, subsidies to farmers, craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs will be provided with an amount of EUR 200 million, as well as milkers for intervention on the market as it officially writes. But from that in this rebalancing, or in that future, there will obviously be nothing. So now I'm asking you, what credibility of the Prime Minister, for that promise she made to the villagers at the talks, on the negotiations, however you want, and there's nothing of it. This is why the HDSSB has tabled an amendment because we believe that the Croatian Parliament in this situation has no right to wait, has no right to annual holidays, however it will be, regardless of the situation, so we cannot in this situation when our peasants insisted that we invest these amendments and since they are our base, regardless of party membership, they belong to Slavonia as we do. We have tabled amendments for the 200 million kuna, for that agreement, which the Vice-President then has now agreed with the farmers. And for grain, the price of grain, and for milk and milk. And we won't give it up. And let me get this straight. Given what I've said, I hope you don't expect me to support the budget rebalance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36767	Thank you. I just want to say this. When we talk about certain rights that are acquired by way of a certain duty of ministers or anyone else, these are their rights. As we all advocates here have our rights and I don't know if anyone has given up those rights. And neither does Honorary Representative Boro Grubisic. Thank you. And now we have three corrections of incorrect allegations. And that is the first honourable representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36768	In fact, this statement by representative Grubisic on behalf of the HDSSB club does not really leave any hope, he sends such a message.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36769	Correction please. Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36770	The correction is that he was talking about the bankruptcy of the state, about the debt crisis. The correction is that this isn't a bankruptcy state. This is a country that settles all its obligations, which shares pensions and pays neatly. So, you can't talk about bankruptcy, so this kind of populist speech deceives the public, not that it's any contribution. Because these measures that we're bringing here today give hope, the budget of truth as they called it next in two weeks. And I'm sure this country has a chance and that this government... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36771	Thank you. Time. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36772	Mr. Vice President. I'd like to ask you to at least break this line. Actually, this is a demagogue replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36773	Your Honor, counsel, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36774	Article 209 is not a correction of an incorrect assumption, but a replica is a simple one.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36775	That's what you were saying, that's a correction to an incorrect assumption. And it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. It is next to representative Susana Bilic-Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36776	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Personally, I find it difficult for my colleague Grubisic to correct himself and I'm afraid he can't be fixed. But I'm correcting what he said incorrectly in this debate. Same as my colleague Rebic. A colleague, Grubisic, was not at the government's opening statement this morning when she spoke about rebalancing, so I am correcting the country's bankruptcy. Col. Grubisic, the bankruptcy of this country was not even spoken by the governor of the Croatian National Bank, Mr. Rohatinski or the president of the Croatian government, so don't talk either. An incorrect quote is "I take off the pensioners". My colleague, if you had looked at the rebalancing and I know you didn't because you didn't even make it to your board then you'd see that this other rebalancing is once again being taken down by officials from the Prime Minister, the Minister, the Representatives, the Constitutional Judges, and we don't touch the pensioners or the citizens with this rebalancing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36777	Thank you. And we have another correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36778	Thank you very much. counterpart Grubisic, you have incorrectly stated that Minister Milinovic cannot cure us by alluding to the budget and cannot cure the budget. On the contrary, Minister Milinovic's moves towards the consolidation of the health system show exceptional results. In favour of this, the HZZO debt reduction, the reduction of the hospital budget debt, is said. And therefore, the Ministry of Health and Social Care did not reduce the budget, but there was a redistribution, while 170 million dear colleagues were provided for H1N1. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36779	Thank you. Your Honor, don't make a mess, please. And that's what ended the club debate. We're moving on to an individual debate. By the way, I'm just saying 47 reported individually. The first is MP and vice president Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36780	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The Prime Minister said this morning that Croatia is finally in crisis. However, what that means is the word crisis seems to me that many, including many, experience in this room in different ways, each in their own way. When I think about how the crisis is experienced and experienced by citizens, those for whom we do something here, we discuss, we make budgets, budget rebalancing and all the laws, then I have to realize that everyone is actually living quite difficult in Croatia today. Hard to live workers because they're insecure about their jobs, threatening to keep losing that job, wages are getting less and less if not in absolute amounts then they're actually falling. Their purchasing power is falling and their material uncertainty is growing. It's not easy for entrepreneurs, it's not easy for investors, it's not easy for anyone who does something and tries to create and earn their own work, from a simple hairdresser to perhaps the most complex production. Entrepreneurship looms under great debt, kills them indifference, extremely difficult conditions of business. However, it has never been that it has never been in any way, so the workers and entrepreneurs are thinking about the existing time with a band of hope and perspectives about making money for bread and milk while the crisis is going on and only surviving, about such messages being sent to us and from the government just to keep our heads above the water, and then we're going to move on somehow. However, there is one category that has been very hard on me, and I don't think anyone in this Chamber has the right to just go over the word of the crisis so easily and fully volunteeringly conclude what it means. This group that bothers me is young people, people who sit around the neighborhoods today with beer, usually with no perspective, people who also know that they're going to somehow survive and they're going to patch up with savings, the savings left over by their parents but who really don't have any chance of having any vision of what they're going to do tomorrow. I think that the perspective will also be lost by those who have received jobs in public services in some kind of party closeness so far, in the state administration, where all those surpluses were taken care of, where people suffered because it was the voters who had just said counterpart Grubisic. No more of that. Someone's gonna have to cut something. However, the government's approach to this crisis is very strong for me, and that is why today I'm going to be tougher than I've been lately and I haven't been sharp because I recognize that times are very serious and constantly trying to find ways to establish co-operation between you guys that billed costs and us that warn that it's not good. However, when I heard yesterday from the top of the ruling HDZ that this state and crisis in the budget was a false opposition that did not reduce costs, expenditure in the budget and then I became very angry. That's really not right. And what's happening today is I said once today, this is an actor, this is a simulation of some budget rebalance that if you're looking at the structure of the expenditures that are changing and that redistribution that's going on inside the budget, it's only 780 million, then you can't really talk about rebalancing. Who needs it, and why is that happening? For political reasons only, because of sending a message to the public, the ruling majority finally realized that the time for cutting was coming and that there was no other way out. And what has changed my dears since the tenth month of last year until today? When we were first not only an opposition in the Parliament but all analysts, the global crisis, all trends showed that the budget that we brought in at the 12th month was unsustainable and everyone saw it and everyone saw it and they all meant it, only the Croatian government didn't see it and as they say today who could have predicted it. Anyone with a brain in their head could have predicted it. I don't think there's a brain in the Croatian government, but I think there's some irresponsibility. I think it's simply spent time not just these 10 months that we're discussing now, because we're talking about budget rebalancing for 2009 but it's been six years. When the revenues came to the budget, the costs were billing. It was made up, it couldn't be thought of what the money would be thrown at and no one thought it was necessary to make money for economic development to think about possible black days. And now that the dark days have come, where are our reserves? There's no backup. The accumulated budget is much more difficult to reduce than saving from year to year, which should be done and channeling that money into what is important to us, economic development and social development, from which then the geometrical proportion creates new incomes and creates conditions for a little more cost-effectiveness. This budget is nothing more than an attempt to settle and it will be the next one because we are here today already discussing both the next budget and the third budget, I think from today's third budget. What are we talking about here, what are we even talking about? What is the message to the Croatian public, what is the message to the international public? How much of this are we going to do in two months? Are we not able to sit down, make a firm decision and some consensus about changing the structure of that budget because we can reduce this budget to zero, the situation in Croatia will not be better than worse. He will lose his salary and those, as counterpart Zgrebec said in her speech on behalf of the MPs' club, and all those you've charged with public services. How many agencies, funds, offices, I don't know what started over the past six years and tell me how many people have been reduced or how many ministries have fallen. We're going into democratisation, we're adapting to European trends, but we're not reducing our own administration. She's still barren, she's too numerous, she's inefficient, she's corrupt, she's blackmailing citizens from day to day. That's our reality. And who's responsible for that? Politicians, MPs, most citizens say. Well, look, I disagree. That's what you're responsible for. We're not responsible for that. We may be carrying part of the guilt that we're not louder, that we're not sharper, that we may even be guilty of not communicating with people anymore, that people begin to understand the crisis that you're in and you've been leading us to for six years without need. This has really come to an end. And now we're going to be saving on officials' cards, on every possible privilege. Well, that's funny. They said many and I'll repeat, so it should be a normal way of acting, it should be a regular condition. It doesn't matter how many cards you have but whether you spend on them, whether you're using them, whether you're buying yourself departments, and I don't know who or who you have that card to pay for some government spending when you're in a situation. That's the point. Who controls public procurement? It's important to conduct the contest if no one complains. And if anything that should cost 100, it costs 300 or 400, it doesn't interest anyone in this administration. No one cares about putting your expenses under control, spending it like it's being spent at home, but throwing money away because it's being treated like someone else's money, and it's not someone else's money. You see, in most of the days, you say that although you're coalitionally supporting everything that's going on, that what we have in Croatia and how it's managed is wrong, you're going to raise your hand again, but you're responsible then. We can't and we don't need to, and we won't be responsible. Today we're going to change the board, all the measures have passed, it's been all the time, we've lost all our chances and I'm going to say now, and for that you won't get our support, be sure. You'll have to cut your wages and pensions, but we'll get up loud and clear today, I announce it, we can give everything up, but you can't bring people on a beggar stick. We won't give it up, and that's why we won't support this budget either.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36781	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36782	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will join the debate on budget rebalancing for 2009 which is indeed an important document, and this rebalance of the 2009 State budget respects the economic financial situation, respects the situation in the economy, conditioned primarily by the crisis in the world that has spread to our country and contributed to some negative macroeconomic indicators. It is certain that such indicators should be answered, and this government is responsible and doing so. Because we need to remind ourselves of the data we had, which is that since 2003, when the social, gross social product was 6 thousand 756 euros, in 2008, it was 10,650 so, per capita, where it was 57% growth. We should remind ourselves that 500 new kilometers of highways were built from 2003 to 2008. We should say that in 2008 the number of cars in the Republic of Croatia crossed a million-and-a-half kuna and that it compared to the total number of employees in 2008 is therefore that each employee in Croatia has one car. If we take into account those funds, if we take into account those financial resources invested in small-scale economies, they are invested in entrepreneurship, in infrastructure, then in 2009, it was really easy to do business and we should have made a budget like 2007, so the budget that would go in positive movements. However, the crisis has spread to Croatia, and it is indeed time for us to find solutions. The goals we set ourselves, which is macroeconomic stability, the development of entrepreneurship, the competitiveness of our products, the employment, education in social sensitivity, the care of our defenders, our pensioners, I find important and should always be taken into account, but of course respecting the financial situation. Different groups, associations, and representatives of recognised associations propose models and recipes to get out of the crisis, but they mainly refer to that someone else should resolve this without concrete consideration and consideration of the consequences that these measures can cause on the existing legal system. Here's an example, the representatives of the HUP have proposed a new way of income from the state through the legalization of semi-legal objects, which the state says would earn 12 to 13 billion kuna. That's their proposal, so legalize quickly, semi-legal objects and make revenue. What I believe is that HUP, representatives of the HUP, could also deal with ethical relations between entrepreneurs, financial discipline and respect for existing labour law rules. The code of ethics in business on 23 May 2005 was adopted by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. According to that ethical code, business should be done. But what's going on? It happens that one number of entrepreneurs, instead of paying workers, simply doesn't pay workers, and doesn't pay even those entrepreneurs who are less in terms of production or total income, so they don't pay and bring them into one bad position. Therefore, the group should also be warned, so the association should take a look at, as we would say, in their own backyard. I think that the economy must be taken care of, but in one real way because entrepreneurs are just complaining because this unfair competition and this non-payment of those who can, which we know that they spend funds that they haven't therefore paid to other entrepreneurs, but they use them for their own luxury cars, yachts, etc. It is therefore necessary to save and to keep an eye on them, so they should seek to meet their obligations. What this government did, which is that it went to cutting costs within the ministry. It should only be said that 130 million kunas of budget users for official travel and intellectual and personal services, representation and so on, so that they have reduced this budget rebalancing, that the salaries of statesmen are reduced by an additional 5%, and we know that in April 10% have been reduced and I agree, as well as Agent Antunovic, that it is necessary to lead about a small man, as she says and we are rightly leading. This rebalance, as well as that rebalancing we'll bring in in three weeks or two weeks or a month, will certainly take care of the costs, will take care of those priorities in the economy, as well as the social ones. Therefore, the government is doing the best it can, it is also responsible with this budget and the budget that we will surely bring to enter in 2010 much better, financially more stable. Therefore, this budget should be supported, included and supported by those priorities that are important for the economy, and I also say for sensitive groups of society. I think this budget rebalancing is doing it, and here I am going to support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36783	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36784	Thank you. It is not true that Croatia has flooded the crisis outside, so Croatia is not some coast that has now been overrun by the crisis outside. It is true that the government is in charge, that this moment owes 40 billion euros, that it is 20 billion euros more than any government in Croatian history, that the decline in gross social product in the first quarter of 2009 is -6.7%, in fact, the largest since 1999. The truth is, we need to face the wrong moves that have led to a great deal of this crisis here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36785	Thank you. And now we have two replicas. First of all, she's the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36786	Thank you. My colleague Majdenic, do you know what the biggest problem of the Croatian authorities is, and you have succumbed to it? The fact that he doesn't want to face the real situation today in the country, which he doesn't want to face the results of his work. And now that you're talking about the crisis, I don't know where that came from, there's a world stream flooding Croatia and we're in big trouble right now. The fact is that we are in big trouble because we have neglected our industry, that we have neglected our economy, and when it went the way it went during and while the economy and the citizens were filling the budget, it was all right. You say GDP per capita has increased 57%. Oh, please. Well, the methodology for calculating social gross product has changed. A certain percentage of the grey economy that was not basically included was then to increase the base by that amount, and then it would be real growth. So, we're always looking for an alibi to wash our cover, and we're not actually doing anything. You say entrepreneurs spend a lot of money and why don't we tax it? Why don't we introduce a tax on property like that, on yachts, on expensive yachts, on expensive cars? Why don't we introduce a capital gain tax so that those who get paid have to pay on every dime of tax, and those who raise tens of millions of kunas of dividends don't pay any lip? Why doesn't the government do it?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36787	Thank you. Replication response. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36788	Mrs. Zgrebec, I'm glad you came forward with the replica because I'm going to remind you of the deficit of 6.3% in 2003 and when you were, but what you were doing, you were then considering State Audit reports for 2003. You specifically asked the government of Dr. Ivo Sanader to make all those numerous irregularities that were to take action within 60 days. And I have to say that the government did it and everything you messed up from 2000 to 2003 we fixed. You should say that you spent your financial resources, that you had hundreds of gyro-accounts on which there were some funds not rationally. This government has faced all of this, it introduced a single State Treasury, so paying from one account, has introduced internal financial control into each ministry, so that as much as rationally as possible is spent, everything that is irrational is thrown out. So this government did...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36789	No throwing, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36790	And if it hadn't been for this government's policy, so the deficit cuts and the consolidation of these accounts, believe that this crisis would have hit Croatia much harder. And you feel free to say that the crisis has not been introduced. I'm telling you, if there was no imported crisis that would have lived quite differently in Croatia because this government is truly responsible and all assumptions in this direction have been done. So what you're saying doesn't stand at all. And as far as this data on the growth of gross domestic product is concerned, this data is in the State Statistics Office. So read that article, that page, and you'll find it. [[Intruder Capricorn: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36791	Thank you. I'd like to ask you, we have to listen to both sides when you're saying something. The man has the right to speak, so please don't throw each other out of the bench because we'll be done faster. It is up to the honourable representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36792	Thank you very much. Well, first of all, I'd like to appeal to discuss this budget and budget rebalance that in 2002, the third one is left for some historical analysis. Maybe some symposium or something. This is the budget rebalance...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36793	Your Honor, you've been given the word to speak of the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36794	Excuse me. So, a colleague said that because of the priorities of this budget, she would invite us to support this budget. Now, if we read the priorities, it's a reduction in resources for science and education. That's the priority of this budget. The priority of this budget is to reduce the funds for entrepreneurship. The priority of this budget is to reduce rural development funds. The priority of this budget is to reduce the funds for entrepreneurship zones, etc. etc. If these are priorities, do not expect us to support this budget because of such priorities. And on the other hand, you have priorities to increase, say, the items of the budget on which information and promotion, intellectual services, etc. etc. So the priorities are very clear. We're gonna cut your rights, we're gonna cut your wages, and we're gonna increase the item to convince you it's for your own good.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36795	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Nevenka Majdenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36796	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Reverend Mršić, we are already today and the Prime Minister has said that there will be an additional rebalancing that will just be led to determine the correct ones, those important priorities, and I think that's good, and I think you should all participate. And as for the priority when you mentioned education, then I have to admit that everything this government has done for education has really done a lot. Just look at the statistics and how many schools were built. We wanted to have one-way work in schools. We didn't do it all, but that doesn't mean, it doesn't mean Mršić, Mršić, that it, that it will be then, that it must be a worse education. Where do we all come from? Are we all coming from some urban environments where it's been? No, we come from both villages and something, but that doesn't mean someone has to be uneducated. But what's the priority? The priority is that in a financial situation like this, it is indeed those who live in socially sensitive families that have books. But if you have your child, I don't know if you have your child you don't have to get free books and for that I'll always, I'll always support this budget. Therefore, those who have financial resources for whoever it is, whether or not your children, your grandchildren need to pay for the books, should pay for the transport. And those who don't, and that's what the Prime Minister said, they don't have to be provided in every way possible. This is how I look at priorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36797	Thank you. I'd like to ask you, Your Honor, Mršić. Nobody bothers you when you talk. Don't do it to the rest of you. Let's be parliamentary. Let's go, now it's time for the honourable representative of Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36798	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. So, the kind of debates that are happening today in our High House are spinning in all the parliaments of the world. Because the crisis is not only Croatian, it is part Croatian. It's mostly global, though. I'll just remind you of what happened in 2005 when he was at the University of New York, Professor. Nuriel Rubin, one of America's largest macro-economicists, said the world's biggest crisis has come in four years, the economic crisis in the last 40 years. Who was listening to him? No one. He said the US government would have to invest $250 billion from the budget in the purchase of stakes in banks and businesses. Who was listening to him? No one. What happened today? Instead of 250 billion aid is 1870 billion and there's no way out of the crisis yet, at least not sure. So there were indications, but it was at the same time and those who were saying it was an exaggeration that wasn't going to happen. I don't think we could have predicted as much as anyone in the world, because if it had, it wouldn't have happened next. According to the International Monetary Fund of the 10 biggest losers in this crisis, thank God is not among them Croatia is Iceland with a 10.5% decline in gross domestic product and inflation of almost 9% and Estonia with a 14.7% GDP drop in GDP is Latvia with a 17.8% GDP decline. So these are the biggest losers. What is most surprising is that there are two lions of Ireland in Europe and Singapore in Asia on the list of the world's biggest losers. They were called Asian tigers, European lions because their GDP went 10% a year, and today they fell by over 11% and are in a severe economic crisis. In other words, we share the fate of all and it is good to have opinions and it is good to have different opinions and it is good to have different proposals because it will be easier for the government to choose what is among these proposals better. That's why we have a budget that must be symptomatic of doctors telling me. He's not treating the cause. He only treats one of the symptoms of this crisis. I think it's quality, to bring down to the common denominator what that budget does. So he's cutting expenditures for 786 million kunas like this. 292 million on material expenditures summed up all items. 232 million on subsidies, 392 million on so-called The capitals. It's capital investments plus textbooks. So he doesn't touch any rights. The redistribution works by reducing 110 million on Croatian railways, 25 million in Adriatic, 25 million in transport infrastructure, 218 for free textbooks, 183 million capital investments and 130 million others. There goes the team, the official travels, etc. So this budget rebalance is for me a transient rebalancing, because it didn't touch what caused our crisis, and that's more spending than income, especially in the area of different rights. And the next rebalancing will surely have to take a deep dive in those rights. And what we've done with those rights only in the last year. By 2 billion, we've increased the cost of salaries to civil servants and tenants. We've increased the expenditure by 3 billion because the budget has grown. We've increased health expenditure by 3 billion. We've increased the expenditures in the pension system by almost 4 billion. That's what followed, as counterpart Antunovic said, a good budget. I'm afraid there's a time coming when we're just going to have to get into these rights and in the next budget achieve some consensus or at least be on the path of consensus how to do it. In this current budget, I would just like to look back with a few words and to health care. However, health care remained intact, intact, no rights in health care, which is so far sustainable. How long it will be maintained, it depends on the world's movements and of course in Croatia. So I'd just say that in this health budget, there's no lifting of any rights, there's a rebalancing of 438 million kuna in terms of redistribution. In this way, some items that have not been filled in, even in these good times, were quite well filled, for example. 170 million new kunas for this new flu, I'm not going to call in that animal because I don't think it deserves that, 125 million this year is getting credit for the project at KBC Rebro, 50 million has been increased by redistributing that part of the budget in the Ministry of Health and Social Care relating to social benefits and relating to welfare centres. In addition, the health system is balanced because savings have been achieved. So the reform has definitely reduced 500 million kunas of sickness expenditure, strict controls, not by losing or cutting rights. It is also important to mention 410 million reduced expenditure on medicinal products, but not because of the reduced amount of medicines prescribed, but because of a lower price on medicinal products, which is also a major step. Finally, the result is that the HZZO is in a reduction phase, not a debt increase, although the crisis has also affected Croatia. It should also be said that hospital debts have been halved in the past year and a half approximately, which gives hope of course to business partners that debts will be paid within a development period. So for now, we have a stable social side of this budget, we have for now a reduction in hospital debt, which guarantees paying orders to suppliers, we have an increase in the budget at social expenditures, especially for social benefits of 50 million, we have increased costs for the employment fund, and I think that this budget makes up one bridge, not for some long time, absolutely for a short period, but makes one bridge that allows survival. Perhaps that is why we should focus our discussions on the proposals that we should do already in the next budget. In that next budget, you'll absolutely have to reduce some rights, but we have to draw a line below which we're not going under. This is a drawing of the minimum social standard in terms of pensions, and in terms of minimum salaries and in terms of health services and of course in terms of social benefits. So under one line, you definitely can't go. Where she will be, it is a matter of agreement of course between political parties and social partners. With the expenditure cut, there will certainly be a slowdown in investment, there will certainly be a reduction in incentives, and I would add that, of course, there should be a debate on the increase in certain taxes, but should be taken into consideration the grey economy item which, according to the IMF data in the European Union countries, has increased between 1% and 2% in the six months of this crisis. So, the gray economy is obviously growing at times like this. It is probably also some social corridor in these difficult moments, but in Croatia there are very, very many reasons for pointing fingers at the gray economy. So I'm just going to mention, here at the outset of this time, that the gray economy according to one of the methods compared to other countries is estimated at around 30% of gross national income. Slovenia is also 27% high and Sweden with 15 to 19 and Germany with 11 to 16, but also with a country that has compared to others, regardless of the methodology being approximately the same, up to 30% of the gray economy, it certainly has a large supply in which it can be seized in times of crisis. Here, in this next budget, of course, and this one, but in the next, it will take a consensus of political, consensus of social, waiting for us responsible times, but I think we have proved that we are a responsible state, including the position and opposition, and that is why I do not look with such pessimism at the future, but I call for us to vote for this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36799	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36800	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I've listened carefully to your exposure, I could have picked up that tablet to correct the incorrect allegations, but since I really didn't understand here, I'm giving you a chance to try and explain to me if you want to, but in any case you don't even have to. But you were talking about rights acquired and how this budget rebalance really doesn't touch any acquired rights. And then at the same time you say that we don't give free textbooks with this budget rebalance. If I remember correctly, the law said the textbooks were free of charge. Is that some kind of acquired law? If we can make it legal in this assembly, it seems to me like it's some kind of right, now we say it's not a right acquired. That's how we end it, not touch the found rights. Here, I just don't understand how this as a position you can say something acquired, so by law it doesn't work or it's worth it, and then by rebalance, we'll do it because that's the way it's supposed to be, because of course there's no money when we're passing the law it wasn't there, so it's not there now either. Here, I'm giving you a chance to tell me if you want, if you don't, I don't care.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36801	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36802	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Denona, you're right that it was of course right to have a free textbook, that it was right to have free transportation. I was going to say, and I don't always have to literally interpret, I was going to say that in this rebalancing of the budget, the rights acquired are not really even started yet. This is acquired right, but according to what they're going to do, I'm afraid it's only a small share. Of course, there remains the possibility that this acquired the right of free transport and free textbooks to take over a local administration that also had a transport in its jurisdiction for a long time. There is a possibility to create a social censorship by which both free textbooks and the right to compensation will continue to be guaranteed for the poor, so I don't think this is the last word for these rights and that they are definitely removed for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36803	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Dragutin Lesar is at work. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36804	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Vice President. Today, Mrs. Kosor said, presenting the budget rebalancing that this rebalancing would enable macroeconomic stability, while Finance Minister Schuker said this is a technical rebalancing. One can't be true, so I'd say that this rebalancing that came in fast actually reminds me of potato salad, and the main dish, or main dish, is still required. We'll obviously get it somewhere in the middle of the 8th month. One of the points of the mechanisms or instructions where money was spent under the law was the State Audit report, which we discussed in February of this year, during which the Croatian Parliament made a decision on the SDP proposal and tasked the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in agreement with the HDZ to report by 30 June what the Government had done on the basis of a state audit to remove the illegal spending of money. If I'm not mistaken, June 30th has passed, you haven't asked your SDP colleagues where the government report is, and based on your proposal, the Parliament has reached that conclusion and I hope that's what we've been thinking about this year. But it's no wonder, because whenever you need to look around and see where there was spending beyond the law, it's quickly forgotten. We have an update. A colleague, Hebrang, also urged all parties in Parliament to agree with a consensus on which or whose rights will be reduced. Since no one has spoken to anyone in the exercise of these rights and it has always been claimed that this right has been introduced by the Government of Dr. Eve Sanader, I'm a little surprised that now it's called for a deal when someone's rights are to be reduced, now we should negotiate whose rights or whose rights we're going to reduce. A little order of moves don't work out for me, but we can have a good conversation like that, but I don't think anyone's gonna take this call. Third. Everyone who spoke today from... They mentioned that sales in the store fell to a little bit 17%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? Has the purchasing power of the population in Croatia been reduced by 17%? I don't believe that purchasing power has dropped 17% in six months alone. Why do people buy less? Who scared them? Who stole Santa last year? Remember that? And then, when we warned, don't do it, because the trap will sell, the budget revenue will fall, and who in this country will be produced if we don't buy the same thing, we're told we don't understand the economy. Now it's happened, and now that traffic drop is 17% as one of the excuses of the cause of the problem. This decline in domestic sales was produced in part by creating panic among people. One of the goals of this rebalancing, I quote savings. 130 million kuna on the item of official travel, intellectual services, representations and other. One of the points of savings are business credit cards, official cars and... However, here came Minister Shuker, and I was just going to ask him how you calculated how much will be saved on business credit cards when in May, more precisely on May 28th last year, you didn't know who had business credit cards or how much they were spent on them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Government of the Republic of Croatia, first on my inquiry by the Minister of Finance, and later on because of the impelation, replied that they did not have that information in the Government. In that same response, the government wrote to me, so on May 21st last year, that it was working to prepare new decisions that would regulate the area. That's from May 21st last year, last week on Thursday or Saturday when they managed to make that new decision, 9 years old, and they changed things radically. How much savings will not be known on business credit cards, cell phones and cars, and by analysing that decision, I have another question for the minister. Croatia has 360 state officials. According to the government's response, two months old. Of that, 187 are in Parliament and the President's office. So in executive power is 173. This decision you made last week covered 97. ... I'm counting 97. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where's 76 more? Or who will regulate the issue regulated by this decision for 76 uncovered state officials? Why are they not covered by this or other decision, if it is an equal approach to all? As far as decisions are concerned, the right to use an official car is also foreseen. That decision I calculated that every day 24 stand by arrangement 24 hours, stand by arrangement must be 97 cars, 20 with driver, it is for government members and another 77 without drivers. So 97 cars, 24 hours, 365 days a year. That's a lot of savings. Last week, I counted 40 public institutions, the founder of the government, covered by no austerity measure. Public enterprises, i.e. enterprises of special state interest so that government members could be members of the Supervisory Board published in the National Journal, you provided information on who they are, whom you sent to the Administrative Council for them 37. A measure of savings, an example. The Croatian electricity industry headed by Mr. Mravko is a state-owned company in losses. But she doesn't have to save, she can still be a sponsor to the Dinam football club and the handball team. There you have not predicted that someone who is on Croatian mantles and losses, at the mangers of consumers or citizens of this country should not be sponsored, for example, by football clubs, sports associations, nightclubs and all others. They can still do that. And by the way, what about business credit cards and cars in these companies? They're not the subject of this decision. HT. A colleague, Maric, said on behalf of the club, mentioned a company's rebellion to mention taking excise duties on SMS messages and mobile telephony. It's a HT whose spokesperson, because Mudrinic didn't dare say it, so he sent a spokesman, threatened the government if they did it to fire employees and reduce investment. And he said this young man, sir, is the greatest user of their services to the state. I ask again, does one of you remember a contest that any public government body has called for mobile telephony, fixed telephony and the Internet? And does the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia use the cheapest telephony and internet services or do they have a monopoly? And now as God's socially responsible company, he threatens the government if he introduces excise duties to fire workers and stop investing. No one mentioned it, and I think it's illegal for the former prime minister to pay 202,000 kuna for the next 12 months. I think it's the anti-containment law. Some claim it's legal. I don't think so. Well, now if in a time of recession and crisis and such things go undetected then well. The basic law pays in public services. Amendments to that law under an agreement with the unions of 13 May this year were to be proposed by the government to the Parliament within two months. There is no proposal for a Law on the basis of salaries in public services in the Assembly, and these amendments should return to that formulation of how wages will increase when the crisis is over. What does that mean? That you're giving up the deal or you're trying to play unions again? And a reward question. The Agency for Mobility and the European Union Programmes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36805	Thank you. Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36806	It's not time yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36807	It's time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36808	And the Agency for the Auditing Systems of the EU Programme. It's two of... /The speaker's off.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36809	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, it is the distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36810	Thank you very much. So my colleague quoted me as saying, "I didn't dare mention the name of Ivica Mudrinic." That's not true. I have the courage to mention everyone's name, but I'm talking about appearances first, not names. And I want to talk in the debates about economic phenomena, economic defects, names don't interest me at all, even if it's called what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36811	Thank you. And now we have two replicas. First honourary representativeplatimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36812	You told your colleague Lesar about the sponsorship of public enterprises. So, a year ago, I referred a parliamentary question to the government asking that I be supplied with information on what amounts are they and who are given what sponsorships and sponsorships of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia 100%? The first answer that follows after 30 days was that there was too little time for the government to collect data, and then I was provided with an answer saying that I as an agent and no one else could get such data because it was a contractual relationship. So we have one big absurd, that public companies owned by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia give huge sponsorships to certain clubs, only certain events, and that these same citizens or we as their representatives cannot in any way find out who it is. It would be logical if some sponsorships were already given, which should certainly be given only by those companies that are fighting on the market, and not by absolute monopolies such as HEP or HZ, so that they have criteria in which they will do so in the same way. For example, if football is given, then all first league teams or first league clubs should receive HEP sponsorship, not just some. If it's a handball, then everyone needs to win, not just some. And here it was obviously used just as well as one of our club sponsorships, not clubs that really play in certain leagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36813	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36814	Otherwise, I believe that no company, any company owned by the state, municipality, city or county, particularly which monopolies do not have the right to be sponsors or in sport or anywhere else, because they have the money, the profits, from which they give these sponsorships are not acquired thanks to the game on the market, but to the monopoly given or the fact that the state gives them a bonus in business conditions. Now I'm asking a question. How does a 3 thousand kuna worker who regularly pays for electricity, someone in Croatia sponsors a football club or any other sports club? Where is righteousness? What kind of relations in Croatia are created to tolerate this, and at the same time these companies go into debt that will be recovered again? Either by the consumer or by the state budget. And then we say, if you imagine this cynicism, that you as a representative have no right or you can't get the information how much money this year goes to. It's not that you can't, they don't know. They don't know, because it's only those members of the government who are on the boards or boards of directors of these companies. And when you look at who he sponsors, then you will see immediately the connections that are drawn from the natives to the kinsmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36815	Thank you. And now it's the turn of the line, distinguished representative Zdenko Franjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36816	In your presentation you presented a number of interesting examples that illustrate that so far economic growth in the Republic of Croatia was based on consumption and imports. You also said that there is now a threat for example of HT that it will withdraw profits and not what it earned in Croatia will not invest back in Croatia. Unfortunately, the situation is much worse, as according to the latest data from the Croatian National Bank, foreign companies and investors not only reduced investment in Croatia, but withdrew as much as 130.7m euros in the first quarter, which is about a billion kuna, so more than is now the reduction of this budget. It is obvious that foreign investors are very closely following the government's moves and what the Croatian Parliament is sending signals to the budget and it seems to me that these measures are not far enough to keep foreign investors' trust and to prevent the escape of capital from Croatia. Because unfortunately there are indications that banks are withdrawing their assets from Croatia in disturbing amounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36817	Thank you. Now it's time for the distinguished representative Dragutin Lesar, to respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36818	You said about a billion foreign companies pulled out or... I did not see if the CNB published data on how many Croatian companies, so not foreign but Croatian companies invested abroad for a year and not in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But I think it's about the same amount. So we're going to have this absurd for management because of this economic or economic instability. There is no investment and as soon as there is no investment, it is normal that the question of new employment will not be. Then the simplest thing is either to cut the budget or to invent new taxes. And indeed right now these are the only options because six years have not been heard when it was warned that the overall fiscal policy is not good and that sooner or later it will lead to the same problems that today serve as an excuse, nothing more.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36819	Thank you. We were able to figure out the next MP. It is the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36820	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The story of budget rebalancing is actually about HDZ's government. Says Minister Shuker, this is a budget of truth. But we all know very well that this government has never particularly held on to the truth and it is indirect to conclude that they had nothing to do with the truth before. But anyway, this isn't a budget, this isn't a rebalance of truth, but we all have to accept that this is finally the time for truth. When Governor Rohatinski was still warm in the fall of 2007, when we were preparing for the parliamentary elections, he told the truth to the ruling ones at the time, he was not happy to hear because he had disrupted their pre-election idyll, clouding their water. This led to his serious criticism and warnings. To this extent, you were angry with Governor Rohatinski that he was threatened with the threat of not being accepted in the Croatian Parliament. When Governor Rohatinski was declared the best governor in the world, he briefly commented. The glory goes by quickly and the problems are just coming up but this government doesn't want any problems or wants to admit that there really is a problem. Just a few days ago, three, four days ago, the governor of Rohatinski and the prime minister specifically said that it was not time for a cosmetic budget, that it was time for urgent and very concrete measures. So no more mantra or spin is helping and waiting for the crisis to go by itself as it has been done so far has proved to be an extremely bad method. Of the 14 billion kuna needed, you cut 780 million kuna, and the greatest burden and this cutting goes to see the strong and determined authorities on the children's shoulders, on schoolboys. They remove free textbooks and again on students, on schoolboys, on the transport of students. You really need to be congratulated on your determination and courage. First you hit the weak and weakest. And one more thing. You cut water, drink, cakes, juices, so like Mary used to say let them eat cookies, you will celebrate with a statement not to eat cookies, it will save the obvious budget. But you plan on making it very dangerous for citizens to reduce wages and pensions to people who can barely survive with such wages and pensions. It's really one dilettante approach. Savings certainly and certainly but, as counterpart Antunovic said, that's normal. If someone has a credit card it's just a form of payment but not to pay whatever they want and how much they want it, but to keep it in the least possible frames, but it's a regular way of doing business, it has nothing to do with the crisis. It's the normal behavior of the authorities in the everyday situation. So, even when there's no crisis. The expenditure needs to be aligned with the revenue side, a truly great wisdom. Croatia needs first of all a comprehensive economic programme, not political painting. The only way out is really in the new foundations, in development policy. A new model of state policy, economic promotion and production policy is necessary. That's exactly what employers say, possibly the possibility of raising new taxes. It may bring effect in the short term, but we've seen it choke on and on a slightly longer path for everyone. If the government had tried to at least part of that energy she'd spent just to show the situation differently than it is, we'd be in a far more favourable situation today. But I'm saying, all of her strength and energy she had was just about to show reality to a different reality than she did. The state cashier is not empty, says Minister Shuker, pensions and salaries are paid neatly. So when this is determined by the most responsible person for state finances, then we ask the question of what we are doing here today and what we are discussing here, and what is this country in the world asking you to rebalance your budget twice in a month and it is not in any financial crisis as you want to convince us. So who's really more crazy? So, you still admit it here and there but you won't admit the truth, there's no treatment until you admit that we're in a crisis and it's serious. You need to say it even more seriously maybe than it is to make a possible step better. But easing the situation and getting away from the truth won't help. In a country where the gross domestic product crashed at a rate of 6.7% in three months and the government comforts us here and today, Madam Prime Minister as it is elsewhere in the world and that it is somewhere even worse. Household consumption decreased by 10% but at the same time I repeat public spending only during that time has increased by 4%. So the state machinery still swallows a huge portion of the funds. So, this one objective indicator that investments fell by 12.4%, that 15% of exports fell, that even imports fell, therefore, that imports that had traditionally filled the state register and that, on this basis, decreased revenues, i.e. decreased imports by one quarter, are alarming data. You're saying you're in a bit of a jam, so right now you couldn't make that real rebalance that's waiting for us. But I repeat all of this, he spoke and warned Governor Rohatinski. He spoke, warned, you were angry with him, when the public accepted him so much, so when and then he brings bad news, then you repeat that you claim that too. So as long as you're surprised, you haven't even turned around and it's been a long time, so it's been a year and a half, and it's already been 15.5 billion. And the retail trade also records a drastic rate of collapse, the tourist season seems to cool us down more than it will warm us up and almost no way out. Because what's proposed isn't literally nothing, and it's better if we didn't get this. But what you're saying is, you suggest something you can do, there's something that's not in the budget and it's worrying. There's no record of where we spend and how much money goes for these kind of public procurement. Where all the public procurement is several times more expensive than it really costs. And when it's all done, God damn it, it's huge money. Did the businessmen tell you that annual bribery and corruption cost to find out from their resources 4.5 billion kuna a year, only funds spent on bribery and corruption. And why it doesn't end. How much we lose from giving up on ZERP, hundreds of millions of kunas, we lose hundreds of millions of kunas a year from the people's property, from something that belongs to all citizens, from the theft of the mine treasure. Why is it that the state is not charging these people, but is intending to reduce poor pensions? So this is, this is one way you could really do it if you had serious will and serious intentions and pure intentions to charge off the debtor. Even those debtors who are not legally debtors but who need to pay for this. So, the fact is that you're still running from the truth, that you're still running away from being, responsibility. Because running away from the facts, running away from the truth is an escape from responsibility. And we've had a concrete escape, therefore, society in the escape that has led the country into a crisis cannot remove it from the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36821	Thank you. ... Please, please, don't throw it away. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's move on, now we have three corrections to the incorrect quote and three replicas. So it's even. The first respected representative, Susana Bilić Vardić, was the correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36822	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Anticevic said that this authority, I quote, does not want to admit that there is a problem, so in the same sense, it is constantly waiting for the crisis to go by itself. My colleague Antičević, that's incorrect. It is incorrect because the government and this parliament increased the security of citizens' savings roles even last year. This is the second budget rebalancing this year, so that's also proof that we're not waiting for the crisis to go by itself. You say we run from the truth all the time. And that's not true, but it's true that you don't want to hear what's here, what the government and the Prime Minister are saying. All the time you've been saying, and that for a year and a half, that the crisis, when the Prime Minister in the opening statement says, the crisis is, we're all aware of the measures we need to take in our debate, and you're still talking about running away from the truth both from the crisis and the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36823	Thank you. The second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36824	Thank you very much. So I would correct the incorrect quote of colleague Antičević who said, says, once again, the blow to the little man, so we're canceling the payment of textbooks, transportation, so Mrs Anticevic said the same thing when we passed that law, then you said it wasn't good, now you're saying it's a blow to a man again, and at the same time you know that it's not this much of a crisis in the world and that our economy is not in the situation in which it is, therefore, difficult because of this recession to keep this program. And that this government doesn't end it because it will, but that's why Mrs. Anticevic has to and only now you don't want to admit it because you're always drinking backwards. And constantly like a little man, injury, personality, etc., etc. And this rhetoric of yours you've been telling all this time has been recognized in the Croatian public that you are exclusively misleading the public. Because your measures do not bring prosperity to this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36825	Thank you very much. Thank you, thank you. We have the correction of the incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36826	Thank you very much. A colleague said that the government is hiding the truth and does not want to admit that there are problems. Which is absolutely incorrect. In fact, if we hadn't recognized, if we hadn't solved the problems, we wouldn't have had a second term as HDZ's government on the continuum. We solved the problems, here, just take the debt to the pensioners you've been covering up and who you've been saying isn't true and he's been solved. So the pensioners were paid the debt. Also, the rebalancing we had, the one today, and the one that was announced clearly says that this government wants to deal with problems, that it doesn't want to cover them up, and that it's going to pull those most painful cuts. So, not in the interest of daily politics, but in order to solve problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36827	Thank you. And now we have three replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36828	Thank you. counterpart Anticevic said, quote, she expects the government to go through the crisis on its own. Well, that's one shift, because until yesterday, this government didn't admit that the crisis even exists and yesterday, Vice President Mr. Seks said on Croatian television, quote: "Only Nostradamus knows when we'll be from the crisis.". Interestingly, I suggest, since the government has expanded to establish a ministry or to introduce an official public returnee who will guess when we get out, when we enter. And it's a big deal that you've admitted that you need to get out of the crisis, which means we're still in this crisis. And that the people continue to be confused, not to mention this pension thing, so you know who took the pensioners and who didn't admit that it was taken and who made you end up having to pay it back. But Minister Bice, here's the data yesterday, 159,000 tourists entered Croatia this weekend, last year 377 thousand, comparing the same weekend. So nights are less than 15%, tourists are spending less, they have failed nautical tourism by 24%, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36829	Your Honor! ... Your Honor, the honourable representative Anticevic did not speak a word... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Yeah, well, you didn't get her right.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36832	She said that this government does not want to accept that there is obviously a problem that Mr Kovacevic even noticed.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36833	Don't make it impossible. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36834	No, no, I'm making it possible. And you're stopping me, you're taking my time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36835	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36836	You know how much you took from me? Give me back some.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36837	Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36838	I'm not a pensioner just to take. Give me back the minutes, at least minutes when you won't pay the pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36839	Thank you very much. Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36840	My colleague, this part of my presentation when you say the government doesn't admit and won't admit that there are any needs at all, or times of crisis, about the crisis that we talked about back in 2007, just like when Governor Rohatinski started talking about. But I can say, even after this replica of yours, that one part of it would be corrected for the government to hide, that something would be completely hidden must be known and known. But they're doing it for good not only from this spin and the desire to cover up the situation, but they're not even able to get to know the real state of things. So there goes the absolute inability of the authorities to deal with this situation in which they have failed us with incompetence. And as industrial production is broken, fall from year to year, and that was the first sign of crisis and crisis time. But the fact that our economically recognised experts are also communicating with our Minister Shuker is that the global crisis was only a trigger to the originality and original Croatian product i.e. This crisis in which Croatian citizens have found themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36841	Thank you. And now it's up to the Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go. Replica, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36842	I'll be brief. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Ingrid, at the beginning of her presentation, said that this government had turned to the weakest, looking at free textbooks and the transportation of students. As I'm 30 and some in this individual debate, I'm afraid at what rate we've started to bring rebalancing, that until then some more rebalancing doesn't happen, so that the items don't change, I'm going to read some more items that show, what Mrs. Ingrid was saying, that they're mostly "suffering" the weakest. When we talk about parts of Croatia, the islands, along with the war-affected areas, can be considered the most sensitive, so I'll just read some items that have been reduced from the part for the islands. Capital donations of 5 million kuna, island and coastal development 15, construction of municipal infrastructure 16 and promoting regular shipping and maritime lines 25. It's one quick calculation of about 62 million kuna. As we know it is the largest, so the budget is reduced by about 780 million kuna, it turns out that the islands and the islanders have already received almost a tenth of that amount on their backs, and I'm afraid at all to see what happens when they're rebalancing about billions. However, I guess the ministry will still have to find the best way to redistribute what because intellectual and personal services in this rebalancing sector have increased by 3 and a half million kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36843	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36844	So, fellow, you're expressing concern maybe a little bit and so vividly saying that you're 34th in line and that you're threatening the danger of another budget rebalancing until you get your turn. But, I repeat, something really very certain, that this government is going to track down those famous journalistic sayings that the text can be shortened as long as it is there, so as long as it is there and as long as there is a budget, it's going to rebalance. And that is precisely because, as Mrs. Zgrebec said, it is said on behalf of the SDP club, because there is no and because there is no particular philosophy needed to get us out of the crisis, which would have to be seen in the rebalancing, or in the budget itself originally, which is not.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36845	Thank you. And a replica, the esteemed representative of Ante Kotromanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36846	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ms. Anticevic spoke in her speech on things how the Croatian government cut certain segments related to free textbooks and transportation, but you did not mention defenders. The other day I listened to the Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor, who said that Mr. Sanader had returned his smile to the defenders or something in some context. What about the defenders? The last budget rebalance, the last budget rebalance, we cut 100 million kuna for the defenders. With this budget rebalancing, we reduced 32 million, here is exactly 32 million and 489 thousand care for Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. The announcement is that we will be cutting pensions for Croatian defenders. I don't think that's the best policy, that we should look for another way, another way to solve these problems, and on defenders who were the first to defend the front lines, those who made the most for the Croatian state, I think they should be the last to cut certain rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36847	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36848	Comrade Kotromanović, you have rightly mentioned the defenders. We remember Mrs. Kosor, then from the opposition times, when she kept saying she needed to restore dignity to the defenders. You see, when politicians like to impose dignity and that no one lives here and can define what dignity is and that dignity of every person rests independently of any authority and that no authority can take away property and rights and trample them, but that it cannot take away dignity. Because it's simply something that a man has and that no authority can take away or give him. But that's how Mrs. Kosor, as an opposition representative, liked to push herself, and now she's just sitting in the Prime Minister's chair, already taking away that right. And that's something here, I'm just talking about it not only for these reasons that you've listed and which as a defender and commander you have a lot more right to talk about than I do, but I want to say from this other aspect how cautiously you should be talking, especially when people's feelings are at stake, especially when it comes to feelings of such persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36849	Thank you. And now it's the honorable representative Damir Caine's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36850	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, gentlemen, the MPs. I'll pick up where I left off a little while ago. Mr. Minister, I see. Policy every week rebalancing one is one comic policy. We adopted the budget at 12 months. First rebalancing in the fourth month. This month we'll adopt two budget rebalances. It has already been announced what I know about the 9th and 10th months of the 4th rebalancing, and I read about the portals just before we receive messages that the first minister said that if the Republic of Croatia could have even 10 rebalancings if needed this year. That's awesome. It's just not a responsible policy. Such a policy needs to be fenced from these people in some way. I will also say that with former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader the most responsible for the disintegration of these public finances in the Republic of Croatia are the ruling majority parties. When we talk about the ruling majority, then I think clearly of both HDZ and HSS and the SDSS and the Croatian party of pensioners, as well as minority representatives. I clearly call on these last ones to take one step away from this ruling policy. The global crisis is clearly not solely responsible for the opportunities in Croatia. No, first of all, our public spending. Well, gentlemen, who finally sold our banks, who sold Croatian telecommunications, who sold Croatian hotels, who sold other monopolies I don't know from tobacco, INA and so on. How much has the global crisis hit Croatia? So I'm saying she eventually hit us in the export sphere. It's on an annual level of maybe two, three billion dollars. The problem is the meaning of internal policy, the problem is deindustrious Croatia. We're out of industry. In only one county in Croatia, the industry is the first economic branch in which Croatia is centralized in Istria. It's all run from one center. This megalomania. So why sports arenas like this? Well, that's great. Why all these miles of highways? Well, I'm not saying we don't need them, but not today. So the only hall for the world handball championship that was built without one budget kuna was in Poreč. The problem for Croatia is corrupt Croatia. Every job in this country from local to central authorities has its own commission. The redistribution from one center to another. It just can't do it anymore. Bureaucratised Croatia. Well, in the last six years, you've hired at least 30, 40,000 people. I also know that these are certain votes in Parliament, chairs in Parliament, but that is not how Croatia is run. This government has never been on the side of a small entrepreneur, but precisely the one it created through conversion and privatisation, and today we have a situation that many small craftsmen are in a worse situation and from workers who work with them. I am also obliged to say two words about Istria now. I couldn't have done it before, because I didn't have time. This budget, I dare say and... Istrian. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's one continuity of politics for the last six years, maybe even years. We are represented with 59.6 million kuna or 8 million euros. You took off for one General Hospital in Pula 5 million kuna. So what's that for? We used to have 67 million kuna in the 77 million kuna budget. Today we have said 59 million kuna. It simply offends us. The church is going 281 million kuna to the Roman Catholic, so let it go I don't mind. But let me just say what size it is. According to Bosnia and Herzegovina, it's going somewhere around 130 million kuna. Well, let it go, but let the money be given to our industry that's gonna open up jobs there. That's the essence of how these people who live there could really help. The County of Istria contributes most to the budget of the Republic of Croatia per capita. We have the largest export per capita, although everyone treats us as an exclusively tourist destination. We do not participate at this time in the Republic of Croatia with any recovery. No kuna guarantees come to Istria. The oil business is solid. Last year 45 million kuna profits. This year it's going to be 120 to 140 million kuna. We want to privatize him. So why? Well, it's a crime against the people who work in that shipyard. Don't do this to us! We're doing business. I said no guarantees. Don't privatize the Oil. We have the largest share of tourism per capita. According to a resident in a budget that is once again filled with these people, absolutely nothing is coming back. It's like knowingly someone in this country wants to radicalize opportunities to a certain space. Without radical decentralisation, Istria will only reverse. Someone's been punishing us all the time. There's an anti-histrian policy going on. Why do I say that? Well, Istra doesn't have a single minister at the moment. So let him be HDZ, and I'll back him up. Well, I'll also support that HDZ guy if he's Istrian. Well, we haven't. We haven't had a minister in ten years. We don't have any secretary of state, no ambassadors. We don't have any generals, no directors of public enterprises. We have a vice president of the Constitutional Court, gentlemen. Well, you should be told once and for all, right here in this place.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36851	Your Honor, Your Honor, what is that? Your Honor. Your Honor, Agent Cain, first calm down, everyone here. Second, you don't have to yell. You don't have to yell. That's no argument for you, and this presidential speech isn't God knows what. Please calm down. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36852	And give me back two minutes. In the state administration of, say, 30,000 people who have been employed or do not know in the last few years here in the City of Zagreb, in the ministries. I'm saying that 10 people from Istria didn't get a job in the management business. This is just not how Croatia is run! It's this anti-star policy. I'll talk about it. Because of such policy, we are not in a position to resolve a dispute with Slovenia. There's a radicalization of opportunities. So Damir Cain launched an Istrian brewery in Buzet in '93. year, so I signed a concession on the Piran Bay, answered Racan not to give up one and a half acres around Joras' house. Well, let it be known. Well, I had to say it. I know it's hard in a Slavonia, it's hard. This Slavonia, this flat, golden Slavonia, deserves help for everything she's given in the defense war. And we need to solidarity with him. But they also realize that this policy of centralization is no longer good for them either. It's hard in one Dalmatia where all the industry is gentlemen if that's exactly what we want through the conversion failed. But they'll say, too, so it's not fair to build a port of Gagenica for 2.5 billion kuna, that the Istrians have to build themselves, someone said they've written us off the VAT, this "Istrian Ipsion". Well, it's hard in one Subravina, it's hard in one Intermury, what I know about Zagorya, Lici, and I need to understand them. But again, I'm going to say five million kuna for a general hospital in Pula, so it's simply unacceptable for so many years. It's hard in Primorje, Rijeka, but look, I know, May 3rd, Queen, but still don't privatize that shipyard that Lenac pulled out of one bankruptcy. One word when already gentlemen on my left, on the right hand side, you move me over and over again, so HDZ brought the country to an end. With HDZ, this country will continue to sink. But I claim that Croatia can, what God has given to this country and has not given to anyone. We have one flat Slavonia, we have beautiful Zagorje, we have sea, thousands and 200 islands. If God had given a man scissors to cut his own land in Europe as he could imagine, he would have just chosen Croatia. We've got everything, and yet nothing, unfortunately, comes out of hand. We gentlemen are going to sort of scrape this year in 2009, but what about 2010? So it's going to be.../The speaker went off and then turned on... only some of them left this ship heading towards that waterfall I was trying to describe before. I know the citizens aren't to blame for this situation but they'll clear out of this situation right now, and I don't know the pants on the stick. Just before I said how much this would cost us if someone dared to take off their salaries and pensions for 10%. Well, it's not just 10%, so we're going to eventually, every four-member family is going to lose at least 5 average salaries. Retirement even higher. Don't do that, gentlemen, because that device is not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36853	Thank you, Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36854	So how long did you take me?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36855	Have a seat. First, let me tell you a few words right now. I think it's a pay phone and people recognize someone who wants good and who speaks for people and who makes a commercial for themselves and runs a campaign, no matter who it's about, even if it's about you. So, thank you very much. We're going to correct incorrect allegations. First is Honorable Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36856	Thank you. My colleague Cain, you're in a lot of right, I didn't take this as...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36857	Correction of an incorrect allegation. What's the correcting of an incorrect quote?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36858	I'll say it now. Just let me say it, hold on to the Rules of Procedure a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36859	I'm hanging in there. Just tell me what the correction is.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36860	I mean, that's enough talking about democracy. counterpart Cain is right when he says corruption is one of the major problems of this country, however, that all businesses.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36861	Please, Your Honor, what is the correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36862	Mr. Cain said that for all local and state affairs, a commission is taken from local to state level. I'm saying it's not like that. At least that's the case in Djakov, while I was mayor. For the past six months, I'm not saying, in the state how it is, probably depends on a party that's in power, so that way, the way the government behaves. On the other hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36863	Thank you. Your time is up. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36864	And you took my time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36865	Let's move on, distinguished representative of the Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36866	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for correcting the inaccuracies of fellow Caine who says that this government has never been on the side of a small entrepreneur. This is absolutely incorrect, this government has opened over 320 entrepreneurial zones and thus made it clear how much it holds up to investment in the development of entrepreneurship. Not to mention, this particular government has saved May 3rd by contracting four new ships, where it has therefore enabled a smooth course of further production and thus also made it possible for many small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to tie their business to May 3rd.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36867	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, honourable representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36868	Well, the Rules of Procedure did not explain this case when the chairman violates the Rules of Procedure and does not allow when working on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36869	Thank you very much. You called too late to be a correction, but I'm sorry, you can't, you haven't even called for an article, sit down, calm down, calm down, sit down. Now let's move on. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36870	Thank you very much. I'm correcting Mr. Cain's incorrect claim that Istria has no ministers. Well, you're about to be a future presidential candidate, and let this public see what kind of candidate we have and you've pissed on all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36871	It's not a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36872	Thank you for your congratulations, keep them during the election, then we'll congratulate ourselves. After the election, we'll congratulate ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36873	Please don't throw it away. Your Honor, I need you to calm down, calm down.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36874	From the former JNA who were anti-fascists,... in Istria integrated into Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36875	Thank you, thank you. Please stick to order and discipline in this High House. Well, it's not the heroism of shouting, it's not the heroism of yelling, so you're not going to convince people if you don't have arguments, calm down, you need to work on the rules of procedure that we brought ourselves. And now it is the honourable representative Ivanka Roksandić. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36876	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, it's hard to correct Mr. Cain because he often asks himself why the road, then he says we need roads, he answers himself. But I will correct two incorrect allegations. First, this government wasn't on the side of a small entrepreneur, an incorrect colleague of Cain's. In the past two years alone, 11.2 billion kuna has been allocated directly to entrepreneurship in the budget. Remember investment in textiles and wood industry. Correction of the second quote. It's abolished completely, funds are lifted for a hospital in Pula and KBC in Rijeka. It's just as incorrect. Look at the items of the Ministry of Health, and you will see that these funds are not abolished.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36877	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36878	Thank you very much. counterpart Buterin and Roksandic have already corrected these allegations that this government would never be on the side of a small and medium-sized entrepreneur. Of course, 300 entrepreneurial zones speak for themselves enough, and I am pleased to testify that the Ministry of the Economy of Small and Medium Entrepreneurship and in my county have made extraordinary efforts on entrepreneurship zones. And with you fellow Caine, I thought I had a pretty strong performance about loudness, but I really can't, I must admit that you've exceeded all the measures today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36879	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nevenka Majdenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36880	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I was also thinking of correcting this inaccuracies allegation that on the side of a small entrepreneur the government has never been. Since colleagues and colleagues have corrected it, I'm just going to ask Mr. Cain to go a little outside the city center, they're mostly entrepreneurship zones there. I mean as a presidential candidate that you should know this, but really this government since 2003, so since 2008, there's still a lot of funding being invested right in small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. And the focus is on developing the economy right on small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. I think Mr. Cain needs to read the paper, but he needs to get out of town a little bit and see what's going on out there.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36881	Thank you. No throwing away an esteemed representative, no throwing away. Dear Representative Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36882	In his Istrian grief, counterpart Cain mentioned 59 million kuna as an investment, as the total amount to be invested. I'm correcting that quote. In fact, only the pipeline now being built from Umag to Pula is invested almost that amount via the state-owned regional pipeline company, which is in office and should be financed by regional self-government. It is funded by the state and therefore these allegations it represents are very... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36883	Thank you. And now we're moving on with an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36884	Why didn't anyone replicate? How am I supposed to answer them?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36885	Your Honor, you've been having such an argument that I can't replicate it for you. Thank you very much. It is up to the honourable representative, Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36886	Dear Ministers, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I must say that today I am extremely disappointed with this debate, not with the debate, but with the government's performance. I expected today's prime minister to first come to this House of the High and here from the Croatian Parliament to address representatives and citizens of the Republic of Croatia and tell them what the state of the nation is. So, I think it'd be time to really say, look, guys, we're in a difficult situation. We have come to have extremely big problems, and we need to do everything possible to overcome these problems. The prime minister here told us that we are working this rebalancing because of economic macro stability. If that were the only problem, then there would be no problem in Croatia. The problems are much deeper, much harder, and they will need much more cuts. She also called for further co-operation and dialogue, but unfortunately, Mrs Kosor had no need to listen even to debates of the representatives' clubs, let alone representatives herself, and I do not believe she would need to read a phonogram from these sessions. Not one of the many vice presidents sits in this Chamber and they don't care what the parliamentary representatives think, what they suggest, which they criticise to really install all these proposals or these criticisms or these warnings that we are talking about today in the budget rebalancing that will mark Croatia's future or further, but a very dangerous stagnation of Croatia. The call's already something, but unfortunately, I'm afraid it'll all stay on call. Look, we've had a recent election campaign for local elections. In the pre-election campaign as drunk rich people, the government was strutting around the country, flaunting the cornerstones wherever there was an orderly position. Almost as a blackmail they were saying vote for HDZ, you'll get honey and milk. After the local elections, there's a diaper left, and today we're promised a fall of tears. I'm asking myself what's going on with all these promises? Is it really possible that the 16.5th Minister of Finance didn't know what his first three quarters were like? Is it really possible that the fugitive prime minister wasn't 15.5, the first quarter of the pardon, the first three months, that you didn't know what they were like for the first three months? Is it possible that the fugitive prime minister didn't know 15.5 what his first three months were like? But despite that, highways were opening without a building permit, stone foundations were being laid, cost-free works were being negotiated, billions of kunas were agreed on in an election campaign without cost-effectives. The first proposal to the government and the prime minister, under urgent review the pre-election promises from the local campaign, go to the citizens and say what was the deception, and what you will really do in the next period. Where voters believed and voted for HDZ only now will they regain consciousness and see that none of those promises. Where voters didn't believe it, the mayors came to huge holes. Today, the problem with local self-government is that there is almost no budget of the local self-government unit, which is not faced with serious problems, which is because of the return of income tax, which is because it is far less filled with the budget, which is because the predecessor left him with problems. I suggest that the prime minister gather the mayors of cities with decentralised functions and particularly the mayors and meet them and really see what kind of problems they have too. All of this that we're talking about at the state level is a lot more of a local problem because a minister at a local level can't, like Minister Shuker, issue vault records, can't possibly be in charge at this point, can't overcome any of the problems he's encountered. So, we need to meet with the mayors and mayors and see how to solve this problem because nothing will happen if we settle a possible state budget, and we have a problem in local budgets. I also call for a budget that will be real and real to have both real and real further decentralisation. Decisions towards political discretion cannot be made in this Croatia, promised only where ours are in power, not where citizens have needs. This budget has therefore shown that it will primarily be saved in high school students and that there is a very high confidence in high school students that they will succeed in getting the state out of the crisis. No transport, no textbooks. Today, we had a line here about these textbooks that should only be given to those who needed them, and that is exactly what we suggested when this law was passed. You didn't want to listen. With transportation, the situation is very different. So, really, high school kids' transportation to high school is going from rural areas to cities. It's an interurban transport to cities, it's an interurban transportation of high school students, within the city and there's no right to transport high school students. If we cancel this, how many kids in the fall won't go to high school? How many kids in the fall won't continue high school? There is no Minister Pankretic here to ask him where is the money in this budget that the Deputy Prime Minister then promised to the peasants at that protest down in Vukovar? Where's the milk money? Where's the money for further incentive? It is these days that cereals are combined, peasants turn the grain into silos, they do not know at what price that grain will be paid. Does anyone wonder where these people will buy textbooks for their children, where people will pay you 400, 500, 600 kuna on the autumn ticket so their kids can go to high school? That's what we're talking about here today. Nor did we resolve those promises made by the Deputy Prime Minister at the time, today, the prime minister in Vukovar, Minister Pankretic fled to the post of Deputy Prime Minister and left farmers and agriculture on promises, and today we have a problem in making it even more difficult for these people to have their children's future because we don't give them money to transport children. Also, someone said today is reducing imports. Yeah. Imports are being reduced, but not because domestic production is being substituted. Imports are shrinking because people have nothing to shop for anymore. First of all, imports are reduced, let's call them luxury goods, which are cars and others, but unfortunately we've made a substitution of domestic production. I appeal to be activated urgently by the Food Agency and to create a huge obstacle at the border to import non-quality food into Croatia. The garbage is still being imported into Croatia, and our farmers and our food industry have a problem with the placement of their agricultural products on the domestic market. Only in January when we had tuna exports, we had more exports than imports of agricultural products. Only in January. Only then and never again in this year, and we still have the goods of dubious quality. It's the same thing with entrepreneurship zones. For the sake of truth, entrepreneurial zones began to be built in 2000, Minister Pecek launched a major project to build entrepreneurship zones, and in 2003 there were more than 200 in Croatia. The government continued in 2003, today we have about 400 and some of them are active, and some of them are only on paper, because if we had 400 entrepreneurial zones today, we wouldn't be talking about the crisis. If each of these zones were to work 100, 150 people would have a large number, a big problem with the structure of the unemployed, or employees, rather than the way we have today. What is the problem with this budget, and what we should and what I expected today from the prime minister to tell us what are the objectives of the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I wonder how many Governments of the Republic of Croatia aim to preserve jobs by the end of the year? I wonder how much of the goal of opening new jobs in Croatia is? I'm interested in what the government's goal is to get paid, the average salary in the Republic of Croatia at the end of the year, the targeted pension in the Republic of Croatia at the end of last year, and not to have a situation as many people here in the Parliament today, but also in my town ask if they go to an annual pension because they don't know when they come back from year or whether they'll get paid, how much they will be, and whether they'll even manage to save their jobs. So let's open our eyes, let's be completely honest, but let's call this dialogue... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36887	Thank you. Time. Now we have two, four, five corrections of incorrect allegations and three replicas. And another 39 individually. Well, let's take it in a row. The first is the correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36888	Comrade Mršić, you said this budget would mark Croatia's future. On the contrary, this budget will last for the longest month and will have no impact on Croatia's future, except we will probably sink further. After these local elections, there were neither hills nor valleys nor honey nor milk, nor even that of your wormwood, but what remained was misery and what.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36889	Thank you. Now it's the honourable representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36890	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I am correcting the quote of Mr. Representative that the government in the pre-election campaign is being scattered by setting up rock foundations. This is indeed an incorrect allegation, and I can tell you, Mr. Representative, in the area of my unit of local self-government that she would be happy that in the next four-year period, a new team of people who took responsibility for the city, that one-third of the capacity behaves and satisfys the contents that we have met in the previous term to be overjoyed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36891	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36892	Thank you. It is not an exact quote from his colleague Mršić that he saves the most in high school. It is true that Mrsic's colleague is the biggest cost reduction, that the biggest expenditure reduction applies to ministries and other budget users who have reduced the cost of implementing the programme by further rationalisation of business, as well as the salaries of government officials. And secondly, there are free textbooks for 30,000 school students, 22 thousand with social IDs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36893	Thank you. Now it is up to the honourable representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36894	Dear Mršić, you have incorrectly stated that the government was strutting around in this pre-election campaign and promising honey and milk. Of course we're all aware that these were direct elections for the mayors, mayors, etc., and everyone was offering their programme. Of course, we expect all the help and support of the government and we in our county can bear great pleasure in bearing witness to these same endeavors. Second, they said they were opening highways without a building permit. So if so, why have you personally attended, if you are alluding to our highway to Koprivnica, why have you personally attended the same, if it is such an impeccable shop? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36895	Thank you. And the correction of the incorrect quote, Frane Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36896	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First, it is incorrect to assume that at the time of the SDP-led government that more than 200 entrepreneurial zones were created. 8 by a number... There were 8 entrepreneurial zones at the end of your term, and today there are over 320 of them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, it is an incorrect assumption that highways were opened without a building permit. And that's an incorrect allegation. And thirdly, it's an incorrect assumption that projects were financed only where the same government was, this is state power. So that's completely incorrect. This will convince you of the projects in Korčula, Ploča, Vela Luka, etc. But that's where you lost the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36897	Thank you. And now we have three replicas. The first is Honourable representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36898	Thank you. Well, Mr. Mrsic, by analysing this state of affairs, did you say that the government finally admitted that we are in a deep crisis, in one deep, I am not going to say what, but an invisible situation. However, I warned of it as a representative and we together at the 12th month last year. That's when I even said that we got to the edge of the break-in where it said we'd move on. Now we're here somewhere in the middle of that break-in, still floating while we're not packing down from the bottom. And there's talk again today about how these are historic how we're going to get out of the crisis, etc. And about this part that was, today we owe somewhere more than 40 billion euros, and we're passing stupid laws like the Non-Smoking Act, etc. So, on the other hand, we have units of local self-government who, after these elections, are over-indebted before the election. Because it wasn't just the promises and the candidate's programmes, but it was an unsatisfactory borrowing based on promises coming from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and individuals in this House. I'm sorry there's no Mr. Shucker here now. I would ask that finally in this second, or fifth rebalancing which is already going, a complete decentralisation of Croatia is finally being introduced so that the units of local self-government that are now getting a little more money from income tax will get back that income tax. Because at this point, every day jobs are lost, people listen to this, they listen to our shootings, but we need to find answers. And you need to end up with that decentralisation, now I'm going to finish, just one sentence. Enable local self-government units to e.g. The city of Djakovo solves 35 million kuna debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36899	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36900	35 million kuna... /The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36901	Your Honor, I thank you very much. Thank you. ... Sit down, your time is up. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] Sit down. Well, you can't talk for 10 minutes. Please. Your Honor, counsel. Act politely in this assembly, don't make a mess. And secondly, you can speak a replica but only on a subject spoken by an esteemed representative, and he did not say anything about it in the majority. And please don't make a mess in the assembly. I won't care, Your Honor, calm down. You're doing a circus. And you who laugh support a man, instead of warning him at your club that this is the High House where there are certain regulations that people have to act on. Don't do that anymore. Replica reply, Honorable representative Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36902	Well, my colleague Vinkovic I was just talking about that is that very serious problems are in local self-government units, and now I'm going to say something that has completely disappointed me, and that is because everyone's mouth was full of Vukovar in the pre-election campaign, the only city that has suffered the most severely in this budget is the city of Vukovar, which by 30% reduces funds for the restoration and development of werewolves. I think it's a disgraceful punishment for what the voters did in Vukovar, which is that they trusted the man who has the program and wants to get Vukovar out of the crisis he's in today. I call upon the government and call upon the ruling majority. Correct that mistake, not to put that 20, 30% back, but add 100% to it, we all have obligations to that city, and especially you who have a lot of the mouth of that Vukovar, but you want there obviously power, you don't want to help those people who live in that Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36903	I'm asking the MPs again. There is a precise rule in our Rules of Procedure that the replica can be done on fundamental exposure, and you respond to what it replicates. Neither did he go to your basic exposure, nor did you respond to his replica. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivica Pancic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36904	Thank you. And after Eva Sanader's escape, the social policy and this government is that the poor become even poorer and richer. And that's why my colleague Mršić when you say you need to revise all promises made in the election campaign. Of course, the ruling party believes the promises will be forgotten. That is why the real requirement should be read, review the signed contracts on large infrastructure projects. Because the competitions are furniture, prices are getting high, and then all those involved in the competition share jobs with each other by introducing cooperatives to do jobs at far lower prices. And where does the money end? It ends up in private pockets. As the divisions are being conducted, I am sorry that that criminal application around Gaženica has not yet seen the light of day, or that it is not undermined by the public. Who took the money? It's not a question of whether money was taken, it's just a question of who took it. And that 225 million taken from our children, that money was taken by someone on the gauzenica. How about highways, about all the other highways that have been built over the past four or five years so we don't even talk. And if we want to do something, then a few ministers and a few state secretaries who participated in this octopus corruption should simply be removed at first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36905	Thank you. But I have to say it again. You have to stick to it and say what you're replicating to a respected representative. You didn't say that again.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36906	Yeah, I said it. I said again, I can quote. I can quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36907	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36908	Mr. Vice President. It is an article 209 that regulates what is meant by the incorrect quote and when it is given and what is meant by the replica and when it is given. Excuse me. Or do you have any other Rules of Procedure? Paragraph 3 of Article 209 states: "If a representative asks for a word to respond to the alleged replica, the Proposer will give him his word as soon as he finishes the speech of the one quoted above. The replica of a representative, i.e. the reply to the replica cannot last longer than 2 minutes" Excuse me, you, with your interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, limit our replicas. One is an incorrect allegation. I agree that a correction should be made incorrectly, that and that, but forgive the replica, therefore, and there is a broad way to explain it when replicated by someone who has had their own exposure. Please, I think in this case you're violating the Rules of Procedure and not interpreting it properly. Then why is there a replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36909	No, I don't. The replica exists to replicate the exposure that was but not when the replica is completely out of the context of the exhibition and I always object to it that it also violates the Rules of Procedure and that is where we have to stick. Therefore, it is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36910	I think you're very broadly interpreting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36911	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Zvonimir Mršić. Please, you can't take me for granted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36912	My colleague Pančić, thank you very much for warning you once again about what I said in my basic presentation, which is that they agreed on jobs during this pre-election campaign without valid expenses, without projects, without knowing where it starts and where some highway ends, without, for example, buying meadows for the road, rather than openings on loaned meadows, all talking about serious projects that have been entered and really asking how a cost-effective could be done without the main project, how a cost-a-carrying can be made without a building permit, how a cost-a-creation can be done without an execution project and how can be agreed on then such a project. And my proposal is to invite the Prime Minister to revise all these contracts and see first of all what can be done and what can not, and for everything else, or to re-open a public tender or simply to revise those costs because, for example, it is impossible for you to negotiate on one highway exit from that highway in meters of squares, let's say some overpass or bridge. It is simply an unknown measure in the road construction of a meter square bridge without having at all a geomechanic terrain on which to make it. Therefore, the most famous was the opening of the highway towards Dubrovnik where there is almost no idea of the route to which it will go and that there is a main project of this route, so if there is no main project there cannot be a valid coster, and therefore the contract that was made should be void.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36913	Thank you. And then now the replica is the esteemed representative of Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36914	Now, I agree, Mr. Mr. Lobster with a great deal of your discussion, but what do you think of President Mesic's statement that I've just received a message saying, "I've always been for radical cuts, but if you want to cut a cat's tail, then that should be done at once.", commented President Mesic's budget rebalance, here's "evening." Okay, this isn't a joke for this tail-cutting but this is the black humor that most eloquently paints the Croatian reality. What's the government doing? She will now, every month, to us, to the public, to the employees, to cut the salaries by 5 or I don't know how much, and thus to bring us back not in 2007 but in 1995. But if what you're saying is true that Vukovar is punishable de facto or that he has only 30% of the capital investment funds in relation to what was planned by rebalancing, it's in the right sense the words are inadmissible, it's a scandal, I won't say it's a crime against the population of that city, but it's something that needs to be radically changed, and I expect so much for the government to meet its amendments to the people of that city because they're in charge of Croatia and so much this country can pay them back.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36915	Now, on behalf of the promoter, Minister of Finance, the esteemed Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36916	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I had no intention of reporting, but Mr. Pancic accused the ministers, he accused the government. Mr Pancicu, your duty as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia and especially as a parliamentary representative if you know of any incriminating action please report and do so. Stop accusing me for months without arguments. I could take out a bunch of those things, but that's your problem. But also as far as local self-government units are concerned. I remember Mršić's statement by his party colleagues as mayor who, when spoken in the 2nd, 3rd month of the crisis, said that what crisis, cities don't feel the crisis, why would they rebalance the budget. Well, that's what you've got, so you can fix as much as you want. Look at the TV shows you were on. Another thing, don't misinformed the Croatian public. This money that you are now paying back as income tax is what you have come from the citizens of your city in the last financial year, and it is the order you have made if you have made more income to pay back. That's what the state does, that's what everybody does. Therefore, it is not good for people who are not informed about the Law on the financing of units of local self-government, who have not been informed by the Income Tax Act, who clearly know if they submit a tax application that they need to get their return. Therefore, the return is made only by the person who paid a certain amount in the name of an independent, unsustainable city in the previous year and the logical thing if, in accordance with the Income Tax Act, he has the right to return, within the legal period, to file a tax application and you are just returning what he has paid you, and no more. So it's not good to blame someone else. But, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this reveals another story, another map. As someone scratches where it it itches, because it's in a very similar situation like the government. I would be happy if Mr Cain was now quoting what President Mesic or someone else said or if anyone said he should cut to say from what position he should cut it from. It's his democratic right and his proposal. So you would see then to find yourself in a stalemate and you could not speak more populistly than you would have to say one painful cut because the structure of the Croatian budget is simply such that you have no place to take from, you know what 84, 85% of the Croatian budget is. Therefore, if we want to talk about what the budget should look like then at least it would be correct if we want to help the government with this debate to prepare the next budget rebalancing to say gentlemen, it is a difficult time, let's cut off that and that position. Today you're all crying over free textbooks. I'm here on all budget defenses, budget rebalances from morning to night, you can't tell me that's not so. And I remember what you were saying when the first time in the budget they found funds for free books. You're crying all of a sudden today, you're crying, you're crying, you're crying, you're crying, you're crying, you're crying, you're Thus, one must remember what he says in his political performances. I was also an opposition representative, but I have always been careful not to cross a line that is simply not allowed in political communication. Mr Pancicu, not a single minister in the government nor Eve Sanader, nor in this Government of Mrs Jadranka Kosor, signed contracts after the election as you and Mr Picula did.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36917	Thank you. We have four corrections to incorrect allegations, the first is the distinguished representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36918	A lot of things Mr. Shucker said untrue, including this last one, that I signed some contracts after the term of office, and then you should have arrested me, Mr. Shucker, that's true, but that's absolutely a lie. It's a lie, but you're lying in a Shukerian way, so you can be forgiven. But let's get back to this second one.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36919	Please. Don't do it that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36920	So, please warn your minister, if you do not warn, I will take care of myself.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36921	I already warned him. Here's a correction to the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36922	But against your non-resilient methods, they're well-known in HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36923	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36924	Here I apologize if I have accused someone this democratically of this party.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36925	Your Honor, I'm giving you a warning and I'm asking you to stop, to stop using such expressions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36926	It was neutrally used in neutral terms. As a politician, I can use that. But when he tells Mr. Shucker that without arguments, he's accusing someone. Well, Mr. Shuker, I guess you could.../The speaker went off and then turned on. As for the fast road Zadar-.../The speaker turned off and subsequently turned on./... in April You took my time. [[Intruder: Time, Honorable Representative.]] A criminal report has been filed.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36927	Don't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36928	I could've already finished. There was nothing to this day of that criminal application.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36929	Thank you, your time has run out. And it is up to the honourable representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36930	So it's completely incorrect, Minister, that I was saying something else that the crisis was gone, I was talking about the crisis last fall, and that's how I planned the city budget. The city budget of the town of Koprivnica does not currently go into rebalancing unless the state shakes it with its poor governance, with wage cuts and with all other things. So we planned well, we don't need to cancel cards because we don't have cards, we've sold the official car in spring, we've been drinking water from the gallon for years and there's no need. We're acting domestically towards the city budget. And we don't treat the city budget as you do the state to drink, eat, spend while it was, and now you're asking us to say what needs to be cut.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36931	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36932	Mr. Minister, we can really get itchy and scratch wherever we want, but it won't help. I appeal to you to finally understand, Wait, so the correction of the incorrect quote, the man said that we could itch and scratch, I say we can do as much as we want, but it won't help, it's a correction to an incorrect quote. [[Aggression: Correction of an incorrect quote.]] You've been leading the controversy with me the whole time. And I'm getting a red light, and I can't possibly tell Mr. Secretary what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36933	Correction of an incorrect quote, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36934	Here, look at this now, and then you'll tell me to calm down. I'm calm, I'm just reminding you this isn't the HDZ Assembly, this is the Parliament. Croatian. I ask you to finally understand that only decentralisation, fiscal decentralisation can get Croatia out of the crisis. In particular, income tax, profit tax and VAT. But one big part should go to local self-government units. And not all the mayors were on that mission, they weren't as in debt as this 6-month-old of mine who did, I left him 8 million kuna, he puts debts on 35 million kuna in six months. I beg you, help Djakova, not all red, living Croats and Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36935	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36936	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36937	It is now up to the distinguished representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36938	Dear Ministers, it is not true that we forgot what we were saying about the textbooks and that we are now paying for free textbooks. And we in the SDP have always said the same thing, and that is that children whose parents are not able to provide them with textbooks and that it's irrational to get everyone because we're not that rich. From the same base, we are now against the state getting no one and then not even the poorest children. On the other hand, I don't remember you as the minister of finance in the government rebelling when your minister of education was contrary to the law, against the budget being scattered hundreds of millions of budget kunas, promising everyone that next school year would get free textbooks and saying that these existing ones could be thrown into the trash.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36939	Thank you. And now we're moving on with an individual debate. Dear Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36940	Thank you very much, namely, since the government has announced that we will probably get a new budget rebalancing at an extraordinary session at the end of July, I believe that this debate on the current rebalancing will actually be a good contribution to making a new rebalancing that our entrepreneurs and the Croatian public should also be a clear response to the fiscal policy of the state to the current economic crisis. Perhaps this is the right moment, perhaps after the resignation of Prime Minister Sanader and the change at the head of the government created sufficient critical mass in the public that the government finally cuts off the Gordian knot and tells Croatian citizens clearly that for years we have lived above our means of life and that we have already borrowed too much money from future generations and generations above the possibility of Croatian economy. There's an agreement about cutting state spending. The fact is that in Croatia few people work without many people living well. Clearly using the entire spectrum of rights and benefits for which the state that came out of the war 10 years ago, which has passed a transition or passed with the extremely poor inherited structure of the economy since socialism. So in this situation, these rights can no longer be afforded, they cannot endure. Any delay in these painful cuts would be further pressure on the economy and would likely lead to a new borrowing which certainly in this situation of raising money on the capital market certainly would not be a good option. Where will it be cut, where will it shrink, how will it communicate with the public? It is certain that there will be a great test of determination both for the government and for the Parliament. This rebalancing we expect at the end of July is certainly going to be a major turning point, but what it must contain, two key things. First, it must retain that social minimum, that right for the most vulnerable layers of the population, so it must keep it and secondly, it is certain that certain investments, their dynamics above all, and invest in what brings rapid effects, so first of all in entrepreneurship and the economy. We had there in 1998 after the VAT was introduced on January 1st, the budget rebalance went somewhere in half a year and then there was a great chance for Croatia. We've collected large funds from the VAT. However, instead of the money collected from VAT, this generous income, instead of being targeted at the economy, almost the entire surplus of income, went to public consumption and to the hyperproduction of different rights. The culmination came a year later when it was '99. There was general insolvency in the economy, insolvency, difficulties in the collection of claims, etc., there was legal uncertainty, interest increases as the payment risk was installed as a premium, etc., etc. Why am I talking about that '98?? I think it should be remembered, and I think it's primarily a strong argument for what the government is announcing, so a significant revision of public spending. And there we should also have a consensus in the sense that it is not good for each of us to stand behind a group in that state budget and then bid only for that group, but to try to take a responsible and prudent look at the whole and to face the need for a significant reduction in budget spending. The one where I wanted to make my little contribution to those savings. This is, above all, what must be further pressing the economy, it's a state administration, but also its efficiency. When I speak state, I also think about this really central state, but also about the administration that is by the units of local self-government, municipalities and cities and counties. Namely, he pays first. In this rebalancing and in the new one that has been announced will therefore go to a reduction in wages. The pensions of officials are covered here, so these preferential pensions, so managers in public enterprises, and they're likely to expand. The question arises as to how it is possible in this situation in cities and municipalities, so in the majority, I will not argue to everyone, but in most employees of a similar job description, the same internship and the same professional arrangement that in local self-government, therefore in cities, municipalities and counties have 30 to 50% higher salaries than the same officials, so with the same professional training, with the same internship, especially with a similar job, I will say equal after we have some reshuffles, so they have 30 to 50% higher wages from them. It's certainly not a good situation in the system. So it's not good that every municipality and every city has its own salary policy and it's clear that it's not even stimulating to those people who work in public service on similar or even the same jobs. It should also be taken into account, however different we represent, that even in urban enterprises both in municipalities and in cities people are more easily employed, I mean through either easier procedure or in some way there is a situation where there is no such public tendering in public enterprises, i.e. this city’s affairs, etc. Therefore, I would certainly like to welcome what the prime minister announced this morning in order to go in some way into this harmonisation and not to say that this is an injustice, but a systemic problem that has arisen, but to correct it. Secondly, it's a pay policy in the state administration. There's still a big job in front of the newly named Minister Mlakar. In fact, it's safe for the state administration to have an excellent, professional and competent frame. But it's also a fact that we've made a long-term negative selection by paying and rewarding policy in the state administration and that unfortunately we have a significant number of those who don't do their job or who don't know how to do their job, but regardless of which they receive the same pay and have the same rights as those who actually do the job and do their best. I can really speak on the basis of my own experience. These people, especially those involved in negotiations with the European Union, great people, professional, competent, who were literally without saints and Fridays doing their job. But you also have in the system and those that take from the same cake, but they don't do anything for that system. And there is now a special role and task at the new ministry to review this award policy in the system of state administration where it would really stimulate those who are doing their job properly. Because when we look at our economy, this economy requires an efficient state administration, so first of all, there should be competent, but also rewarded people who have it as an additional and stimulating and motivation in business. Also, politically speaking, it is certainly one oatmeal nest, but perhaps during such a medieval period to examine this situation that we have over 500 units of local self-government. Not every village must have its own sheriff, its assistants and its administrative secretary, so it is necessary to see if there are these municipalities and cities, i.e. in particular municipalities, which cannot finance their own cold drive, which cannot finance even that elemental salary and directorship. So, really, through one systematic approach, because there are inherited rights now, there is, sure, it's not easy to do. There is also documentation, etc., so that this problem should also be approached through a medium-term period. Here's the first thing I'm saying is that what I personally see as savings in this budget rebalancing that's coming is savings on an administrative apparatus that should become more efficient and better logistics for our economy through a better award system.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36941	Thank you. We have several replicas, but I have one notice. I received and read in front of the Parliament a letter from 9 clubs and 3 MPs asking for it, namely to hold a vote on the State Budget Rebalancing Proposal before the start of the deadline set out in Article 170b. point (a) is replaced by the following: That was possible until, until one of the signatories of this conclusion, one of the clubs submitted amendments to the budget rebalance. This practically gave up the agreement, so according to the law and the Rules of Procedure, it has to go three days after the debate on budgetary decision. We have tried to propose these amendments in this next phase of budget rebalancing, without being submitted now, so as not to call twice an extraordinary session. However, it did not bear fruit. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure I ask clubs for an opinion on the possibility of calling an extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament for 16 and 17 July this year. So, for Thursday and Friday, and then an extraordinary session will be called at the end of this month. So we're going to have two extraordinary sessions, because they have to go three days from making amendments to deciding on them. So, please clubs if they have any opinions. I intend to call a session of 16 and 17. Representative Drmic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36942	I'm reporting on behalf of the HDSSB club. I'm the signator of that proposal of yours. If you had read it completely, you would have seen that it does not say that there will be no surrender of amendments. At that point, I knew we'd turn in the amendment. However, the request only spoke of a three - day reduction. I still have no objection to this deadline being shortened, that all amendments should be submitted by the end of this debate, that the government does not have to wait for a statement on the amendments mentioned for three days. As far as I'm concerned, the government can also hold a cabinet session tonight and manifest itself on these amendments. So there hasn't been any change, but from the very beginning it's about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36943	It's not. So, I read this whole letter this morning in front of the Parliament. I didn't skip anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36944	Yes, and there's no mention of the surrender of the amendment anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36945	And now I've quoted this part of why it was thought it should be.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36946	Yeah, it's just about denying that three-day deadline.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36947	In case there are no amendments, there is no business obligation to wait three days, because there is nothing to decide what MPs are looking for. Since amendments have been tabled, there is no business or legal opportunity to shorten that three-day deadline. That's what I'm talking about. I don't tell you anything why you've submitted yourself, which is why you're here, and I don't comment on yours. You have the right to submit amendments and you have submitted them. However, now there is no business or legal possibility that we have to wait three days because amendments have been submitted. Therefore, I am not informing the Parliament of anything but that we will call the 16th and 17th extraordinary session, and then, at the end of this month, the second extraordinary. I also informed the MPs that we asked the applicant to submit these amendments on this second part. So we don't have two extraordinary sessions. This is not accepted and therefore I must inform the Parliament that we are regularly sitting in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36948	Okay. We stay with our amendments. I'm not pulling them back. Also, I don't think it's going to be a significant cost increase because all the MPs are already here. I can connect those two sessions. I think it's somebody's vacation payment. I think he can sacrifice his vacation for two days, especially when the country has been brought to bankruptcy and two days since the annual vacation can be...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36949	We're not asking your club to explain your decision. Here you are now saying something... This is not in line with the Rules of Procedure that we are now discussing this at all. [[/Intruder Drmić, you don't understand.]] I've just expressed what the facts are and what the law and the Rules of Procedure are telling us, which is that we have to maintain, so two extraordinary sessions of the Parliament, so who's going to think, how they're going to think.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36950	Okay. I'm glad you finally started keeping the law and the Rules of Procedure. Let's do two more days of work.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36951	Please, nice. So I'm just asking on the basis of Article 197 that clubs say their opinions about it, and I intend to call a session Thursday and Friday and there's nothing controversial about it. Yeah? I'm not talking about anything. I'm talking about having to call a session. Please, nice! We've got replicas for a previous debate. The first is Mr. Zoran Vinkovic on the line, a replica of Mr. Kovacevic's exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36952	Now we should remember what Mr. Kovačević was talking about, but here I will try and remind the public a little bit. In fact, Mr Kovacevic Dragan is now probably one of the first HDZs to publicly admit that in 1998 and 1999 we had general indifference in the state, we had external and internal debt. Here, I now remind you that here are 10 years after that, so 2008 and 2009. Now we have a little double that foreign debt, which is now about 42 billion euros, not dollars, and now these economists can figure out how much money it is. This is somewhere when Argentina was really in the banana and when the government fell and the coin fell and Bogoovic sang that he wanted to be a millionaire. Unfortunately, we can't even be millionaires anymore. So, I'm in that condition. On the other hand, this was also about wages in local self-government, etc. I agree that they should be balanced even according to the size of these local budgets. However, there is now again the word of the Minister and Government that, according to the European Union's instructions, must carry out decentralisation of local self-government where 92% of all tax revenues can no longer remain here in Zagreb, not with Bandic, but not with Sanader anymore. Who knows where he is! But that, that's exactly the income that stays right there. While out there, that ratio is completely different. Mr. Minister, for this next rebalancing suggest now to Mrs. Kosor who is also the first Prime Minister, who now probably knows that that bag full of school books won't be so full and heavy anymore because half of the inhabitants of Croatia won't be able to buy those books, suggest just decentralisation as the only one.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36953	Thank you. Replication response, Mr. Dragan Kovacevic. [[I'll finish now, Mr. Baby.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36954	Namely, considering...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36955	What? Who's interrupting? ... [[Intruder: You keep breaking up.]] Did I break up when this started? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Come on, calm down and realize you're in the Parliament at last. I'm sorry, Mr. Kovacevic. We thought we'd been spared from this sort of thing for a while. Here you go, Mr. Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36956	Yeah, I agree. I'm even thinking about replicating with him, communicating that way after these statements. But I thought I'd correct the incorrect allegations first, but here, since the business possibility of replicating is, I'll say. So, I didn't say it first, and he faced the fact that the rebalance was '98. the year that it went into public consumption and that it later culminated in the problems of liquidity, non-payment, etc. The Croatian Democratic Community at all its major meetings clearly faced all its decisions, what we can say from the past which were not good, why in 2000 we lost the election and precisely that HDZ power to face such decisions and the past made it possible for us to win power in the next parliamentary elections and in 2 times. That's what this is about. Therefore, this has been highly debated, and this is exactly what the power is to deal with and to win 2 times more parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36957	Replica, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36958	Thank you, Mr. President. In his debate, Honorable counterpart Kovacevic presented a political and one economic assessment, and with this assessment, I would have to agree completely, so I did not have the opportunity to correct your incorrect allegations. Your first exact political assessment was that the departure of Prime Minister Ivo Sanader created a critical mass in the public to achieve these radical cuts, if I am well, and I was unusually closely following you because in some way it surprised me that you said so publicly. So we got another interpretation of the departure of the former prime minister, which is that under his leadership the government had neither the public support nor the will to make radical cuts, and in that sense it was indeed a good decision. The second is the economic nature that I must also fully agree with, which is that the Croatian state has spent over the last few years beyond its opportunities and that we have owed more than we should have. Now, given that this budget has fallen by only 0.78 billion kuna, which is not even 1% of the total budget, we will continue to spend more than, above our capabilities, we will continue to borrow more than we should for another month, and that only speaks about how late these measures of the Croatian Government, the HDZ Government, and I think we should have done so and that we should not be the doctor of economic science to understand this at the beginning of this year when the SDP proposed it, because now the government will have to take the same measures that we have proposed, only we lost another 6 months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36959	Answer, Mr. Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36960	Well, in this reply to the replica, I would say that all this is happening, also in the economy, all that we have been to in some way and exposed to in the past months, first of all, because this financial and economic crisis that has come to Croatia itself, that it has created what you have said to your colleague, that one critical mass in the public, that Croatia must reconsider its public spending and that this public spending which is abundant in various benefits, I would say from different stages that it also needs to be reconsidered and that this public spending must be in line with the economic opportunities of the country. So we can no longer spend beyond the economic possibilities of this country. Therefore, public spending must be in line with the economy and with economic opportunities, with economic potential. Therefore, it is certain that we will face significant cutting of certain items at the end of July, but I also said that we must be principled there, that we should not only bid on the rights of certain groups, but also try to take a responsible look at the whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36961	Goddess Solic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36962	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, colleague Kovacevic, I agree with you when you spoke in your debate about the system's inconsistency with respect to wages, i.e. on the salaries of mayors, mayors and mayors of the municipality, and on behalf of officials of Croatia and civil servants. And today we actually have one illogical view of all this, like. in Sisak-Moslavina County, the mayor reportedly has a salary of 28 thousand kuna under the uncoordinated system. Imagine how different that is from the Prime Minister, if the Prime Minister has 22 thousand kuna and the mayor is 28 thousand kuna, in fact, there should also be State interventions, of course in favour of the same rebalancing of this next one that is coming to us. Also, not recognising the crisis of this situation, I will especially point out when it comes to SDP, when the mayor of the City of Zagreb said before the local elections that there is no crisis in the City of Zagreb. And here you are, now interpreting that we didn't want to admit the crisis. We've been talking about the crisis, and right from your ranks there are officials who say there's no crisis. Two or three days ago, the same mayor of Zagreb said he would not cut salaries to officials in the City of Zgreb. So I'm asking you, how does that crisis end in the first place? On the one hand, you're saying you should, and on the other hand, you're about to get as much as you'd like.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36963	Thank you. There is still a replica of Mr. Zavodnik Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36964	So, respected counterpart Kovacevic, I fully agree with you, so the former prime minister was indeed an obstacle to serious cuts and spending beyond the possibilities as you said. What I would only like to clarify is a matter of salary in the local self-government that Minister Schuker said at one point. Therefore, according to the State Administration Act, a special law should be adopted on local officials and tenants and on their salaries. That hasn't been done by now, but let's not be too tight about it, or be careful not to cross that limit of autonomy and what is a local self-government that still has to have some choice of its own. However, this one, and what is equally important, pays in local self-government in no way affect the state budget, nor are they paid out of it, nor are they paid into it. So they're completely neutral for the state budget. However, what has a significant impact on the state budget is wages in public enterprises. We have a situation that has raised a huge number of employees in public, state-owned companies, that there have been huge wages, bonuses and premiums in these public enterprises, that there has been an increase in the number of cars, cards and everything else that these public companies have, and this significantly reduces the profits of these public enterprises, i.e. the possibility of investing these public enterprises in infrastructure for which these public companies are in charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36965	Answer, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36966	I'm not even going to look back at this first part, because I think you're trying to insinuate something, which is not even space at all, so I know exactly what I said and what was the message at all and what were changes in the government, etc. But this second part where you talk about wages in local self-government. So these salaries, just like civil servants' salaries, are all public spending, it's all a burden on the economy. Well, you don't pay those salaries from your profits because you're the mayor or you get your headship, but also from income tax, cut, etc., etc. So all of this comes in when you look at the level of a consolidated state, all of it goes into public consumption as well. And I agree with this part of the public system. So in public systems, we have managers, but as managers, they're not like managers when it's some kind of contractor on the market who's fighting to sell their services, looking for a space on the market. However, they are partly managing monopoly services and therefore, when talking about their salaries, they should and should take this into account and the state has a lot of right and pay is then limited, because it is not about entrepreneurs in the open market who are struggling to sell their services. I'm saying it's mostly about that monopoly. However, I also believe that you are in favour of the fact that this director of the airport, who supported you in the SDP campaign, is being reduced by that megalomanical salary that simply irritates both the public and the voters and the citizens of this country. So with this man who supported you, you need to start cutting wages, because it just irritates the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36967	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Representative Boris Kunst's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36968	Thank you very much. Honorable President, Ministers and fellow MPs. So if we stay away from this theatre and demagogy and individual representatives trying to make this debate about rebalancing a entertainment site here, then we actually have to admit that the spilling of the negative... economic flows from the world financial markets could not avoid Croatia, as could our real sector and, in the most part, therefore, reduced planned revenues. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] As many European countries have failed to avoid it. The more individuals also have a commitment to their budget deficit to 2% to 3%. Even the European Commission forecasts this year, for this year a budget deficit of around 6%. But that's not comforting for us. But our indicator is that the tidal wave has hit Croatia, which, as a result of the recession, shares the fate of all the members of the European Union, and by the consequences we have long since become their full member. Until now, the government dam has successfully resisted the spilling of recession negativity in Croatia and has successfully implemented selective savings with full social sensitivity. She did not intervene in any regulation governing social rights, all material rights governed by collective agreements for officials and tenants were respected by the Government. The fact that it does not need to be covered up is that over the past 6 years, the level of social rights has been significantly increased in Croatia, and since pensions increased by 50%, employment increased by 10%, unemployment decreased by 30%, unemployment benefits increased from 160 to 260%, the average salary increased by 30%, while at the same time the growth of the union basket increased by 18%. The lowest minimum wage increased by 55%. No expenditure on maternity and parental support has been touched, nor has the child's allowance. So much for how much social rights have increased over the past six years. Such a level of social rights certainly has its own price, although the standard of most citizens is still not satisfactory, but I do not agree with certain catastrophes that predict Croatia's disaster, bankruptcy, financial breakdown and I do not know what we have not heard here today what they have said. For as long as I've known about myself, there have been economic, social and life turbulence in the former and present state, but we've all survived, and we're going to have this recession leech. The International Monetary Fund, I agree with those who say we don't need it. We have experience with them and we know in advance what they will ask of us. They will seek wage cuts, pensions, all acquired material rights, social rights, etc. This government doesn't need an International Monetary Fund to have an alibi for some unpleasant economic moves or social ones. This government can say this openly and responsibly in public and in agreement with the social partners, all measures can be implemented, and not from their backs. As we remember it. Public consumption must be drastically reduced and sure that as many fiscal parasites as possible should be removed. Parafiscal donations must also be cut, and that is certainly what the government must do. However, the Government of the Republic of Croatia must also do something urgent in the area of the financial system in relation to banks that are almost all foreign ownership. Regardless of their monetary untouchability and independence, it is unacceptable that while citizens and businesses are getting worse and the banks are getting better, they are making huge profits. So for the last year they had 5.8 billion kuna, for the first five months of this year they made a profit of 2.2 billion kuna. High interest on citizens' loans through their high wars further impoverished bringing citizens into I would say such debt slavery, compared to those banks. The interest on the consumer loan is over 11%, on the residential area already ranging from 7% to 9%. Also perfidically high interest rates from 5% to 7% on the savings of citizens, it means deposits attract money to a bank where they make multiple profits. While in many developed countries banks do not have such high interest and do not promote savings. We had a chance to see in Canada the bank on savings is up to 1% maximum to 2%. So I had a chance to hear that there are people who aren't worth saving in the bank, they're looking for where they're going to invest their money in the economy, because they're just so small, they're not as stimulating as our banks are doing. I therefore advocate that we should see and find a way and the banks should be taxed as it is done to each other, especially to detimise high interest rates. The government needs to put an end to the parasitic life of public enterprises. State-owned companies, with this example, must go to local self-government units with their companies. It is unacceptable for the manager, the director, to pay more than the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister or the President of the Parliament. Well, he normally deserves the work of those people. We can ask how much these people's work is worth if one manager, or director, and these state-owned companies can have a higher salary. As for the supervisory boards and the boards of directors, I believe that they should be reduced to a maximum of 3 to 5 members. There is no need to be any more of them, and their compensation should not exceed 50% of the average salary of the company or society in which they are. The state-owned enterprises must urgently develop Rationalisation and Rehabilitation programmes. Unfortunately, these promises are long-term. But they can't make it. This social crisis needs to be deployed socially and fairly and shared with those more wealthy. The government should consider the real need of also a large consumer apparatus of Croatia. Do we need 429 municipalities, 127 cities and 21 counties in Croatia? Or it can be rationalized. I think the government should think this through soon. Because their price is really high, and I would say too big for citizens who can barely do it today more service and pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36969	Thank you. We have Mrs. Biljana Borzan's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36970	I'm correcting Mr. Kunst's incorrect allegations that the government successfully defended the government's successful spill-over crisis from surrounding states. I don't know how he said it somehow. I don't know why you're based on that thesis, if we look at the type indicators, GDP decline in the first quarter by 6.7%, which is the biggest drop since '99. The decline in investment 12.4%, the decline in exports 14%, the decline in imports 20%, the decline in industry 10%, the country's consumption increased by 3.9%, foreign debt of 40 billion euros, etc. So it's absolutely not about any successful resisting the government's defense.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36971	Correction by MP Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36972	Mr. Kunst has presented a whole series of incorrect allegations. It says that in these six years, the state has been great at leading that it has been a high degree of socialised human needs through the budget, that loans have been raised. And here I can say that I don't think so. If it was Mr. Kunst, I remember him back in '98. Shouting Franjo Saddam, raising his voice for the worker and the rest of the people in this country. In the last term I did not hear him, he may have whispered to the former prime minister in Ivo Saddam's ear, but I know that last election was awarded with a chair in the Croatian Parliament, because in HDZ he played often double dog, handed over the worker... /The chair in the Croatian Assembly. And I think he has the least right to hold on to moral discipline, because he's a moral zero, and that's what he's seen with this great trade he's made, and now he's cutting more salaries to public servants and he's yelling at how great this is in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36973	This labeling and appointment of MPs as a moral zero is inappropriate in the Croatian Parliament. I'm not going to go on about it, but I'm warning you of the elemental decency and attitude towards fellow MPs, regardless of whether it's going to the left or to the right. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36974	Don't take the meeting to the Rules of Procedure. When Mr. Kunst used to throw his fellow savages there, you kept it quiet.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36975	What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in? ... It's not about everything, it's about the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You have no right to speak anymore because you didn't say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36976	You're paid to know what you've done wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36977	Furthermore, we have a correction to the incorrect allegations by representative Zoran Vinkovic. ... The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand. [[The intruder doesn't understand. I'm running a session, not you, sir. .../]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36978	Thank you, Mr. President. This respecting what Mr. Drmic said I will give up correcting a series of incorrect allegations and words spoken and obtained like this from the bench speak more about those who earn than about those who are directed. Thank you. And I apologize to you, I didn't think that you were Stalin, nor that the Parliament, but certain ways when the opposition's representative interrupts, I just painted it that way in that spirit of unsatisfactory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36979	I accept that it was blinking here when I broke up. So it was no procedure outside the Rules of Procedure, but within the Rules of Procedure, was it? Did I break the Rules of Procedure? I didn't. Mr. Marin Jurjevic has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36980	Thank you. My colleague Kunst said that directors of state companies have enormously high wages and that's true. These days we are amazed by some figures that have appeared in public, but I would like to remind all of us here that the presidents of these companies' congregations, as far as I know, are mostly ministers. And it seems to me that, indirectly, the Government, or its ministers, is responsible for allowing so much money to be made in state-owned enterprises. I would remind you of good practice and the decision of the coalition government that no one, no director of a state-owned company, can have more pay than the prime minister. I don't know why that's stopped in these six years of HDZ rule. It seems really inappropriate for the directors of state-owned companies to have higher salaries than both the prime minister and the president of the Republic of Croatia. But to put it that way, the mechanism that can change it is in the hands of the government. Ministers are headed by the parliament of these companies. They approve of such wages please give it a nice change because it is now a rhetorical sample but refer to the address of your own party because it can change that, she introduced that practice and I don't understand why. And it's the same thing if you think there's a lot of local self-government units that I would agree with, let's activate in your own party to change that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36981	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36982	Well, you see, colleague Jurevic, I fully agree with your replica, and you're absolutely right. But the fact is one. It is true that ministers also sit in these boards of directors and supervisory boards and should surely be drastically reduced in relation to the current number but I will remind you that it was earlier during the time your party had most authorities that there were ministers sitting at 16, 17, some in 18 boards of directors and supervisory boards. ... No, they even paid for it back then. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It was then, and then it was abolished. But I fully agree with you that this needs to be rationalised, there is no logic for individuals sitting in the order to work in these administrative councils especially some who have nothing to do with this activity or know what the company is doing and that they are still getting some compensation and that it is certainly one government obligation that it has to make. In my opinion, three to five members of boards of boards of directors or supervisory boards would be at the top of their heads and their compensation should not exceed 50% of the average salary of that company or of the companies. But that is, the same thing should be passed on to companies, to local level units. There are all kinds of problems, just get into some societies, companies as many members as there are and how these members come at all, you have them in the waterway, in the gas, and all they know is to burn the gas and drink the water. They have no idea what's going on out there, so I'm sure you should take care of it at the local level and also at the state level.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36983	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It's the Honorable representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36984	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. In about 18 hours ago, I congratulate you for still having patience, the only one of you of that old new government that today seems to have experienced either the swine flu or something and haven't even been here. That's what they're showing. ... These others show how much they care and how serious this rebalancing is in such a way that these criticisms of a non-serious rebalancing should not cause this much attention, a replica, because it really is, so here the government shows how much it cares and how serious the rebalancing is. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And unfortunately, this rebalancing and announcement of another rebalancing by the end of the month will not lead us and has not yet brought us such a feeling that after this whole day's debate, there is a face to face with real economic problems because we have brought them down to something which, in my humble court, is viewed from some executive authority at some lower level marginally. You know, if the rebalance is working on reducing the representations, the cost of the phone and some change, then it's not any serious rebalancing. But anyway, he's who he is. I just wanted to say that today we are still not convinced in the end that the crisis really is and that the crisis is there and that there are other things that are needed for the crisis. And that's what I've heard, obviously, that there's something carading about this assembly that's either become or upside down, and I apologize to the word "nakaradly" is a small group. I also listened very carefully to some of the MPs who are in the ruling coalition today, so they gave the strongest criticism if I wrote well, and they told us that we had been sold so far, I guess it wasn't the SDP's government selling but some other governments who, in the meantime, were colourful lies that we weren't ready for radical cuts because they weren't there, that this is a rebalance of rebalancing, that we were spending as fugitives, and that the first time we had to do a balanced budget and that came from this side, I'm signing all that, and even here I would shorten my argument that my name was signed under that one debate because it's kind of all the way it is. Now, if we're looking today for those who rule for the first time the budget balance I'm afraid that then what we've been doing so far when we've claimed that we on this other side that the budget is not balanced then we've been getting on this side of the attacks that there's nothing we understand and that everything is honey and milk. I'll just remind you that we warned and warned, not just us, but obviously if you say just us so you can say we don't know. You can say that, but you can't say that one Rohatinski or Mr Rohatinski doesn't know. So he also warned and his last warning was that for the financing of deficits and the refinancing of the due debt should be secured in this year 42 billion kuna that the state cannot expect on the domestic financial market, but now in a smaller credit rating state we will mark and we will not be in debt abroad. We're going to have to put ourselves in charge, and first we have to sort things out in our own country so we can put ourselves in charge. This all looks like it to me, and if you remember Mr. Minister well, when we were at the beginning of the year, at the end of last year we said that the crisis was there, but that's why some anti-recession measures should be taken. It's obvious they did, they did bring in the measures we called our intentions, but they didn't give effect because they weren't good measures. Because if they had given some effect, then today they wouldn't be talking about this cosmetic rebalancing, but they would really have the strength to do a real serious rebalancing, so that we can be convincing of both our citizens and ourselves. And now that all of this is read and the prime minister says that car lists will work, that there will be a reduction of representations, phones, cars, cards, you know that's in one serious government, and this isn't the new government to understand, this is the old government just having a new prime minister, so it should have been done before. It's a job that's been done in local self-government since the beginning of when you sit in power you first tighten these things and take care of it. I'm sure in every local self-government, we know how many cars we have. We have fewer than in the government, but we know how many we have, and now we're just going to count cars, I think it proves that then this rebalancing really won't be a real rebalancing, but there's only one lazier woman to leave the impression that we're still doing something. You all know, I'll finish, you all know and you watched, if you weren't watching, you probably heard that famous saga about Titanic. Titanic is a beautiful ship with all possible bulkheads firmly built and then set out for that first and last trip with the confident captain that a record can be reached and despite warnings that somewhere it may be and is expected to happen some sort of iceberg that he will encounter. They waved at these warnings and set off at the fifth speed to somehow get that blue ribbon to come to New York somehow sooner than it should be. They didn't make it. Obviously, then something happened that couldn't happen to us. The ship ran into a santa, sailed in the fifth gear, the captain of that ship stayed with the boat and with music, beautiful music and orchestra remained with the captain on board, and if I remembered correctly, to short the story now, there was first a woman and children. If we ever do this remakes of this film in a Croatian way and say that Titanic is our fifth-speed government, and it's also gone hard and hard, despite warnings that it can run into a santa called recession. On either side, that warning was not heard. We ran into this recession that still, somewhere long ago, but here we are somehow trying to say it might be some kind of recession after all. What happened in the Croatian way in that belt of Titanica? If the captain was the first to leave that ship, and those women and children we took literally, then in that, we were first killed, we didn't save them, we were saving them, because we're cutting their transport, the textbooks, the child's allowance down by 6%, of course not in rights, because there are fewer children, and here the other day we brought the Law of Insemination which is like this, so the children will still be no more. And then I wonder what it's all about, that although it's been warned, although it's not since yesterday, even though people representing the National Bank are smart to say what they should do, even though the opposition warns a year, a year and a half, that something should be done. And if we have all the indicators from which we can read what's going to be in the first month of next year, we have the indicators we just need to put it into cubes and say here we need to cut it off to make it better in the first month. And that takes strength and will, I don't say knowledge, strength and will and desire. And then finally here I heard earlier that not even KBC River was damaged by nine million kunas. Yeah, they're writing a nine million kuna paper was taken for a swine flu vaccine. But again, for all of us, KBC in Zagreb has not been taken away for swine flu. Either they don't participate in swine flu or only Rijeka has to participate in swine flu. And the argument took away nine million, but the project goes on, it will continue to be built. Without that 9 million will certainly not be done in the KBC of Rijeka. We're solid, we can give 10 million, not a problem, but let's just let everyone in that budget pay for that swine flu, not just some. Because if these anti-recession measures that were intentional have not produced any result, then I'm afraid that you should listen to your partners in the authorities who demand that this other rebalancing which we all expect so strongly, that it will be with radical cuts that will then make that spending party really close to here with this income, because on income money, I don't believe that we're going to be able to talk about it, that we're trying to figure out that the crisis is and that we have some solutions on how to get out of that crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36985	Thank you. We have two replicas. Dear Representative Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36986	Actually, Vice President, I didn't find any other form in our Rules of Procedure to react. I have not applied for the debate because I believe that perhaps in the first two, three hours everything has been said and that this repetition is in a certain way and views and defences and attacks, but since it does not say in our Rules of Procedure, I am glad that now the president of the HDZ Club is here, I think the club presidents should also sit down with you as well as the leadership of the Parliament over some conduct. In fact, my colleague Šolić is now gone, and I would insult any category of our fellow citizens if he said they were discussing in the way Mrs. Šolić was saying, because that the parliamentary representative is arguing that he allegedly has this, that he allegedly has that. Excuse me, this is the highest home of Croatian democracy and alleged or upstream or downstream should not be. And I think both vice presidents and presidents should warn parliamentary deputies not to serve the team. It goes both left and right and we have to do ours and you have to do yours and those thirds in the middle because we simply send a bad message to citizens who aren't the only ones who like us. We are also to blame for the recession, we are to blame for the costs, we should be abolished and appointed by some emperor who would be much cheaper, and we would solve all Croatian problems. So I ask you to try the initiative that I used in this business provision that only gave me space and whether Mr. Matkovic supported the SDP or not, but is a problem in his salary, his premiums and premiums of other directors at a higher and lower level receiving salaries of more than 20,000 kuna. I can document that for you. The other day we asked for information for municipal societies, and we asked ourselves why we're not directors of municipal societies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36987	Time. Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36988	I don't think it's a good idea for a fellow devil and any dictators in this House and we don't need that right now. Obviously, we need what can take us and the way out of this crisis on the one hand is primarily a reduction in huge public spending, and for that is painful cuts. This requires painful cuts, and on the other hand, stimulating industrial production in order to make a profit. And in those priorities, and I know now that a colleague, actually Mr. Shucker, is going to tell me that there's no such thing in the budget, and that in any case, there's no need to talk about it. But also something that's capital, which we're building somewhere. We need somewhere to go in some other frames. I haven't heard anywhere today that apart from textbooks and the transportation of students, we may not be building the Peles Bridge. You'll tell me it's not in the budget. But look, it's all in the budget. It is Croatian roads, not any Hungarian roads, but Croatian roads. When credit is raised in the Croatian roads for the bridge then it is a Croatian loan. It will not be paid by the Hungarian Government, but if it is not paid by the Croatian Roads, then we will pass the law to pay for it by someone in the budget and by the Croatian budget. So let's also talk about such problems that should be dealt with before books and before the island transports, in some way, to resolve whether we go further or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36989	Thank you. And now it's a replica, the esteemed representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36990	Thank you. You and your colleague Denon actually asked all the questions when you were wondering if this rebalancing was at all a rebalancing or something else at all. Is this wooden iron? Is this really the wrong answer to the wrong policy that's been going on so far? At this point, I can guess what will happen after this decision by the Government about the sale of smurfs other than Uljaniks for one kuna, and unless there is likely to be an offerer who will satisfy those conditions to continue the basic activity, then the third tender is called for to be taken over by someone who will not continue the shipbuilding, and then let it be handed to workers and let it be shipbuilding in Croatia. That's why the general question is what about this rebalancing today or so on. We also get whether it's just a wrong answer to the wrong policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36991	Thank you. There is an individual debate on the part of the distinguished representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36992	Honored Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with Associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. So, Croatia may be one of the few countries that really did not have a crisis, but we came directly from recession to the edge of a break-in called bankruptcy. Let's remember a few months ago when we were also discussing the budget and budget rebalancing as she was trying so hard to avoid the word crisis. All these signals that came from an international economy with indications that they will eventually spill over into Croatia. Of course, our crisis is not exclusively the result of international recession and crisis, but the reasons are much deeper. And now we have one marginal budget rebalance that does not predict radical cuts that are actually only possible and desirable in this depth of the crisis. What's more, it's going to save on, like, a public procurement bottle of water. It will now not be obtained in the ministries and public enterprises of the water bottle, but by gallons of water through public procurement, etc. On the other hand, there are whole series of illogicalities and nonsense in the budget that extend from budget to budget without being justified. One such situation is, for example, artificial action at the time under which there is a defense against fighting, which simply does not have any foothold in scientific research. Moreover, in its conclusion of 31 March 2005, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted an opinion, quoting: “The existing system of defence against fighting in the Republic of Croatia does not have a satisfactory foothold in science, and there are no objective indicators of the effectiveness and justification of such a system. Despite this, 17 million kunas are also reserved here for artificial action in time, i.e. defence against fighting, which represents as much as 2.2% of these 780 million kunas as the actual cuts in this budget rebalancing we are discussing. Now, I'm asking why I don't trust international science. Why is it not believed to Croatian scientists when the Ministry of Science and Technology, Education and Sports was once obliged to study the effectiveness of the defence against the fight and gave their opinion that it was not scientifically justified. However, this activity is imposed by the State Hydrometeorological Institute and a truly deep activity that is not available is not available in developed countries except in our eastern countries of a very difficult communist heritage. Why? Because there is obviously an obsession of one of the ruling coalition's coalition's coalition's coalition partners with the defense against fighting, and it simply has to be found in the budget. The documents of the World Meteorological Organisation of the American Meteorological Society, the director of meteorological services, do not justify an existing system of defense against fighting, and they point out that acting by artificially in time can cause even greater damage, even greater dangers and consequences for agriculture, but bad. An international survey on the status and effectiveness of the defence against the fight provided by the State Hydrometeorological Institute as well as research on the action of fighting in the Republic of Croatia with the international review of the World Meteorological Organisation, German meteorological services, Hungarian meteorological services, Slovenian meteorological services, the International Centre for Theoretical Physics in Trieste did not confirm the success of the defence against the fight and its economic justification. There is no scientific evidence that the defence against fighting against current technology is effective and economically profitable. In the European Union, there is no operational defence against fighting at national level. The defence against the fight is neither implicit, nor explicitly referred, nor exists in the European Union's legislation. There is no defence against fighting in Croatia using rockets and generators anywhere in the world. A stronger combined missile and generator defense system has in many cases worked, while the fighting was falling, causing great damage. That's a fact. The defense against the fight is also problematic from the point of view of environmental conservation because during the radiation of that silver iodide without ecological control, this agent releases into freedom of the atmosphere and then further pollutes the soil. And despite everything, 17 million 370 thousand kuna goes into the wind, goes into the wind and will leave as long as HDZ's coalition partner is obsessed with the effectiveness of fighting defence, instead of looking at scientific works, to look at international justification to devote himself to other ways of protecting crops, such as insurance, etc. So my free advice to this government, without I owe this debate, is to save 17 million 370 thousand kuna. Some people are receiving their salaries, but that this activity is not being implemented because the environment will be more protected, the state budget will be fuller, and we will not be ashamed of ourselves in front of the international scientific public and we will really show that we are holding a scientific opinion and that Croatia is indeed a country of knowledge, that the opinion and expertise of its learned people is respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36993	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Željko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36994	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Prime Minister's opening statement, Mrs Kosor only confirmed that today's rebalancing is nothing more than another public performance to act out the government's determination, which is, in fact, the government, which, as I pointed out in its presentation, is the government of continued and consistent irresponsibility towards the citizens of Croatia. How else do we interpret the announcement that by the end of this month we will have another rebalancing, or if 10 rebalancing is necessary, says Prime Minister Kosor. Well, that's proof, another proof that this government, as well as the government that brought us into an almost unexplainable situation, really has no vision, no strategy, no plan, and that I'm not talking about human resources, no organisational capacity, no how to resolve the economic crisis, how to resolve the social crisis, the state's crisis, judicial reform, corruption or crime. The Prime Minister says, Mrs. Kosor, I have requested an analysis of the anti-recession measures. I think it'll be a half-card text. There won't be anything written on it. Neither were the anti-recession measures of the former government, there were intentions, but those intentions were not translated into action either. Therefore, this rebalancing does not meet the objectives of Prime Minister Kosor in any way, so it does not create the basis for ensuring financial stability, for providing jobs or for the social security of Croatian citizens. However, the proposed budget rebalancing does not satisfy the minimum requirements that would go towards this objective. The state budget is always much more than just synchronising expenditure and income. It can be considered a real means of directing the economic and social development of a country. The past Sanader's policy has suffered a severe handiwork, and this proposal remains in exactly the same schemes and mental patterns as the former prime minister's budget. Therefore, the agony of the Croatian government, and thus the whole of this country and all of us, continues in it. Each budget rebalance must be not only economically sustainable but also socially sensitive and just. So today the HDZ coalition partners also pointed out that this rebalancing is neither socially sensitive nor just. Croatia is today generally seen as a deeply unfair state, a country that is capillaryly and systematically corrupt, expensive and inefficient and socially unfair. I'm going to quote a journalist who best described today's current state of affairs, according to the state's sucklings, a variety of clienteleist groups from power-related tycoons to half a million-full of defenders. It's a real picture of our condition. Quality state policy must protect sensitive groups which are the biggest losers of the transition that Croatia is going through, but not at the same time destroy, but encourage successful and perspective. The budget provides an answer to how the burden of the crisis can be more justly deployed. There's no such thing in this proposal. Croatia therefore needs a new social agreement, a new development direction, a new leadership, and not a patching of budget gaps, which we have here today, and we will obviously have in 2 weeks. The Prime Minister invites us to come together. So let me list a few legislative initiatives for you over the past year, an initiative in which we from the SDP have also called for commons, pointed to problems in the economy and offered a solution for preserving jobs, increasing production, growing gross domestic product, preserving social security. The anti-recession package of SDP with amendments and additions to the Law on Profit Tax, the Law on Contribution, the Law on Tax on Income, the Law on Value Added Tax, the payment of certain non-taxable income in 2009, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment Intervention and Rights for Unemployment, the Law on Prolongation of Payments of Residential Credits 2009, the Law on the establishment of a basis for the calculation of salaries of government officials in 2009, the Law amending the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget for 2009, the Proposal for a Decision on the payment of funds and the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009, the Fundamental Capital, subsidisation of interest and part in the loans of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Proposal for a Law on Special Tax on Interests, the Amendment of Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obliging Insurance, Obligation, Obligation of Health Insurance, Obligation, Obligation of Obligation, Obligation and Excisement of the Laws on the Laws and Exum. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Areas of Countys, Cities and Municipalities of the Republic of Croatia, Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Fines and Recognitions, Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Public Roads, impelation on the work of the Government in implementing the Law on the exercise of the Law on the Protection of Human Rights, on human dignity as the highest values of the Constitutional Order, interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in connection with the role of the Government in the process of restructuring Croatian shipbuilding, interpretation of the work of the Government in the field of energy supply and of their prices and impact on the economy and living standards of citizens. How did all of our initiatives go? They have passed by ignoring the ruling majority. And now we're calling for a consensus. But let's just say we forget all of these proposals our anti-recession package, our interpretations, our laws. Let's forget everything. Let us only remember last week when a stubborn and arrogant law is defended in this assembly, which is hypocritical, unconstitutional, most conservative in the European Union, a law that threatens women's health, the Law on medically assisted insemination. All our amendments have been rejected. Everyone. Is that a conference call for colleagues and colleagues from HDZ? Or are you only calling for a consensus when it suits you? The proposed budget rebalancing sounds like a slap to former Minister Primorac and his project of free textbooks, but also to the one who was appointed by Minister Primorac and who allowed him everything that was voted on, which is the current prime minister, Mrs. Kosor. Therefore, the ignorance of this government has finally brought down a myth about the Croatian knowledge society. During the night, making this decision means thousands of families deprive their children's textbooks, because they won't have the money to pay for these textbooks, they won't have the money to come to school at all. Is this then a society of knowledge? The Prime Minister says today we will establish another body for the implementation and control of public procurement procedures. Well, colleagues and colleagues, we have laws, we have regulations, we have the Office for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, we have the Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. So do we need some other central office to control these two offices that already exist to control public procurement procedures? We don't need a new office, we don't need extra laws anymore. We've got it all, but we have to spend it. We must have people who will enforce these laws in practice. Here the other day, it wasn't actually called, but a tender was concluded, which all the ministries had awarded to the People's Newspaper, although the offer was more expensive for nearly 2 million kuna than the offer of 9 other suppliers who had jointly prepared the offer. But we do know that the Vesnik is attached to the People's Newspaper, that it's creating losses, so the losses somehow need to help the People's Newspaper cover the loss resulting from the "Walk," the HDZ report doesn't know what else it's for. There's talk of saving on coffee and water. This will help us greatly with the waste of money, so I repeat 2 million kunas, the job was assigned to a more expensive supplier than he was. So I wonder why we get all this stuff on these benches anyway? We got all these laptops. Do we really have to spend extra money on a whole bunch of paper that actually, maybe I'll go too far, so I don't think 85% of the representatives of 85% of these materials ever open. So let's not get these copies anymore, we have everything on the web, we're in the 21st century, so let's save it that way. There'll be more savings than coffee and water. Let the Prime Minister, with an analysis of the anti-recession package that will be completed in five minutes, request an analysis of the implementation of the Media Law, the Law on the right to access information, and let's see what these analyses show. I don't want to enter individual items of this budget, because it's completely irrelevant. It's a political budget, a budget that has a task just to blur the eyes of the public and show them that something is done, and nothing is actually done. But I can't say that it's really incomprehensible that the Rijeka Clinical Hospital Center is taking 9 million kunas, that the Pula General Hospital is taking 5 million kunas, that the islands where someone keeps swearing to take 2 million kunas for health care, to deny the shipping lines, to take 200 million kunas to the railways to maintain the infrastructure. You know what that means? We're going to take 200 million to maintain the infrastructure now, and we're going to have to invest 500 million next year, because the state of the infrastructure is desperate. I'm closing up. This Government is offering no solution to the accumulated economic problems, to social problems, and therefore such a proposal should be rejected. Or maybe I'm actually wrong. Maybe it's all part of Sanader's brilliant plan whose genius we, out of opposition, can't possibly understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36995	Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36996	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. By listening to Mr Jovanovic, a representative at the Croatian Parliament, the man simply catches the fear of living in such a state. It's nice living in Croatia. You see, Mr. Jovanovic, I, when I came for the finance minister, got a full car purchase from a company in Rijeka. Never, never, ever, is Slavko with whom I don't shoot once, I never mentioned here in this House, not even today if you didn't discuss it the way you did. And I'm not saying there's any macho in there. God forbid. And if I was... I apologize, in advance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I just want to tell you that, and it's about the cars where the representative from Zagreb is. And I'll tell you something else. You made a whole show about the Customs Committee, but what you were talking about happened in 2002. So when I wasn't the minister, when this government wasn't in power, when it was clear exactly who Mr. Matijević's remarks were referring to, your fellow parliamentary representative. But I'm saying, that's irrelevant. You have such an argument, that's how you argue. You didn't offer any argument for what you said. Not a single argument. You're talking about measures. Did you say how much those measures cost that you suggested? No, you didn't. After all, it is your legitimate right to propose them, it is our legitimate right to accept them or not to accept them. It's democracy, and it's a parliamentary struggle. And there's nothing wrong with seeing it. However, what bothered me most as a representative of the government in any of your discussions is what you use a series of difficult words. But without any argument. I was also an opposition parliamentary representative. I've always kept my mouth shut. Any hard word can hurt someone if you don't have an argument. However, your political style is to insult, insult, insult, insult from your own homeland, through government and everyone else. But give me an argument once. And let me ask you a question, it might be inappropriate, and how many budgets have you made in your life to teach us budgets here? How much? The budget includes dozens and hundreds of educated and professional people. Well, it's not fair to insult them in this way. Nothing's worth it, nothing's wrong. Anti-recession measures, shall we count them? Well, you were talking about HBOR, so we gave HBOR 500 million credits for small and medium-sized enterprises. Is the law passed that, for all investments up to 45 days, all papers, in fact, for all investments over 10 million euros? If all is in accordance with spatial and planning documentation, all papers may be obtained within 45 days. Did public companies get hundreds of millions of loans to increase liquidity? No, I don't. It's nothing for yours. But I repeat, as a representative of the government, I had to react. I don't think my Croatia is what you're experiencing. You might want something different, but unfortunately you didn't make it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36997	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36998	It is an incorrect statement by the minister that cars were purchased from a company in Rijeka from the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u36999	Peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37000	It is an incorrect statement by Minister Shuker saying he is from a state budget from a company in Rijeka. During the coalition government headed by late Prime Minister Racan. No car was bought. They were driving old car parks and driving from Renta Car and not renting. So much so that we know that Minister Shuker, who unfortunately 6 years after the ministry, does not know except his failure to justify with the coalition government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37001	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37002	No, thank you very much. Please peace, no more replicas, please peace. Please, peace. It's a glorious peace. Slavko Linic, I warned the minister not to throw it out of the bench, but don't react the same way. I stopped the minister, but I need to react to you. Calm your passions, too. Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37003	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37004	Peace, gentlemen. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37005	My colleagues and colleagues, do I want to shout peace? Peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37006	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37007	Yes, thank you very much. Here's the thing. This morning, the Prime Minister mentioned in her opening statement that it was a difficult situation and that no one was ultimately protected. And that's unfortunately true. And, of course, in this rebalancing, the first to strike are the knowledge society, and then they come to the order of pensions and wages. And speaking of these pensions and salaries, I'd remember that today is 13. Seven, and the government is 13. Five with the union made an agreement that by 1. 1. In 2010, public officials' salaries will be consistent with inflation. The government has also made a commitment to amend and supplement the Law on the basis of salaries in public services and to send them to the Croatian Parliament in two months. Today is the date, today the two months expire. So I'd like to ask if Mr. Secretary of Finance knows anything about it? Can I go on or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37008	Those who are concerned, who I am not looking at right now, I pray that even with the glances of mutual sympathy they do not express themselves. I do, but to those who do. Here you go, pals. Please allow your colleague to uninterrupted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37009	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here we have heard today on several occasions, the first concrete measure by the Government of Ms. Jadranka Kosor against the severe financial crisis in Croatia, many have actually called cosmetic rebalancing, because it has adopted a proposal for rebalancing when a total of 780 million kunas have been cut up, mainly at the expense of school children, because it has earned 540 million kunas for the abolition of school textbooks and free transportation of states. We also heard today from Madam Prime Minister, that everyone with good ideas is welcome. Mr. counterpart, in fact Jovanovic mentioned all the anti-recession measures we proposed. I will remember when before the parliamentary elections we announced a tax on tycoons, ruling us attacked from all weapons by scaring citizens that it was tax on their apartments, houses or shares. Personally, I also spoke of a sea regulation that allows for a number of abuses with high-value vessels, which damages the state budget in millions of euros. The luxury tax when it comes to yachts wouldn't bypass many citizens. However, children of those mentioned were given these very free textbooks and free transportation to school. However, I wonder if the net thought of just making changes to the excise rules by which you would imagine on board charging a excise charge per meter regardless of the value. And that's for you not to give examples because I'd go in a long time. It's like cars, for example. The flag, the South, the Mercedes, the Jaguar or the Rolls Royce is paid on them by the same excise duty because they are the same lengths regardless of their value. But to get back to this new cosmetic rebalancing. I said 540 million earned that free school textbooks and free transportation of children had been abolished. The rest of the money up to an insufficient 780 million kuna, was saved on representation, subsidies, and on some health capital projects, which was one of the anti-recession measures of March this year, but which was not applied. But only the government knows that. It should be pointed out that, in addition to cutting, the government has redistributed the money and about 2 billion kunas, and the redistribution is explained by surprise costs such as handball bills, boating guarantees and 180 million kunas for swine flu vaccines. So, after the government completely abolished the free textbook project on Saturday, the only thing that can be said for sure is that the start of the new school year will mark the chaos in the purchase of textbooks. Everything else that's going to cost, who's going to sell them when they're sold, how total is the unknown. According to the prices delivered to the Ministry of Education this spring, the basic school textbook set is between 600 and 1,000 kuna depending on the class. There's no set cheaper than a thousand kunas for high school. In other words, parents who have two children of school age alone will have to allocate at least 3 thousand 400 kuna for their textbooks. What about those who have three, four or more children? On the one hand, we encourage mothers to give birth and thus repair the catastrophic demographic situation in the country and then bring our parents to despair because they won't be able to buy their children books. And then a father in the hallway says, tells the situation how his son, the little son, follows this situation with textbooks, probably hears the story of his parents, the poor parent's whole situation, and he says, "Dad, I have a solution. I'm not going to school.". Unfortunately, it's funny, but it's not funny. It's sad. And now in the end, I would say a moment ago, cars were mentioned on the wings of the affair about the purchase of a new BMW in the wake of the crisis, the government made a decision that was commendable and it was a complete ban on buying new cars for official purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37010	Thank you. Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37011	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37012	Thank you, Madam Representatives. Mr. Representative Mario Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37013	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In December last year when the 2009 budget was adopted and the first budget rebalancing was carried out a few months ago, we spoke here in the Parliament about ignoring the crisis in which Croatia is located and that this budget is unrealistic, unreal, and that the government wants to show itself to the better managers of this country than it is. And of course there's no money now because then the budget couldn't even be realized. Also, Minister Schuker said several months ago that even after this year's first budget rebalance, Croatia's credit rating will be more stable. We see today how more stable that rating is. The businessmen also said before this year's first budget rebalance that the situation is bad and increasingly difficult and that they need help. We warned you that if you don't listen to our proposals, you're listening to the economics' suggestions. You didn't listen, you don't listen today and you announce in two weeks the next budget rebalance. People, you're playing with the lives of Croatian citizens. And today you claim that everything is under control, that we can repay the debt, that we can pay the wages, that experts are inventing the arrival of the IMF and the arrival of the IMF is becoming more and more likely and that scenario is growing in recent times in Croatia. This is only an indicator of a major disorientation, incompetence and indifference of the Croatian government to respond to the situation in which Croatia is currently in place. That's because there's no Mrs. Kosor between us all day. At the beginning of today's session, she said what she thought and disappeared from the Assembly. This shows only concern about what MPs say and think about the situation we are in and what they suggest. Unfortunately, the price of this disorientation and wandering pays for our citizens who lose their jobs every day, without jobs, and every day have an increasingly difficult and worse existence. It is also said about it and it convinces that the global crisis is the only reason why we are in this situation. This is incorrect, and we are not only arguing from the opposition but also from businessmen who have not had real help for five years with economic projects. You have stopped many necessary reforms, there is no decentralisation that you stopped the moment you came to power in 2004 and there is no reform of the public administration. I expected the government to display methods and measures to encourage the development of the economy, to retain jobs, to reduce the level of corruption in areas that have contacts with public money and to increase the efficiency of the judiciary. In contrast, this budget rebalancing is increasingly reducing the purchasing power of the population and directly jeopardising the standard of citizens and budget money is spent on large infrastructure rather than investing in industrial production and protection of workers. Croatia is unfortunately in debt for a full five years and at an extremely high rate and what is the worst in debt is mainly for consumption. So when the water gets to the throat, then we're doing a budget rebalance. This rebalancing should have seen significant structural changes but Croatia would have to do much more than this cosmetic rebalancing to get out of the crisis. We've been warning for years about this government's wasteful economic policy, which has led us to this difficult situation. Inflation, low economic growth, the country's growing debt, the decline of citizens' standards and the non-transparent spending of money from the Treasury are actually the bad economic policies that this government has led over the past five years. A government that has no economic policy, which is not socially sensitive, fair and solid cannot lead this country and this has proved to be true now. We felt that some moves should be made, and we proposed a series of laws that we believe would help mitigate the fall of standards and preserve the real value of work wages, jobs and increase the rights of the unemployed. When we discussed the crisis for the last half year, you laughed about the recession, declared us uninformed. I wonder who's uninformed today when you claimed at the beginning of the year that the deficit this year would be 2 billion kuna and now it's up to 15 billion kuna. You obviously don't feel like laughing any more today. You've rejected all our proposals, you've claimed they're not good, they're not good, and as good as yours is, it proves that for the second time in this year, we have a budget rebalance, that for the second time we're announcing a reduction and we're cutting salaries for the workers, but obviously you and these people don't care much. You brought the state to bankruptcy in 2009 after the coalition government rescinded and managed to resuscitate your failure, here you are ruining and I think you're going to ruin the country for the second time in 10 years. I sincerely hope so, and I'm sure you won't be long.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37014	Mr. Representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37015	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. These changes and additions to the budget that are before us are certainly not based on the downturn in economic activity in 2009, meaning drop in the first quarter of 6.7%. Already these changes are defacto, the changes themselves do not solve the problem of the stability of public finances, the budget itself, because we know that the correction of 780 million kuna is insufficient, insufficient. And what I would point out is that this country's problem is not only a fall in economic activity but also an external debt of over 40 billion euros. But it certainly raises the question of who is responsible for this state of affairs. Surely for one small part it is a global crisis but also neglecting its influence on all of us. We also know that, even in this Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we have been said that the crisis will only skew us, that half of the anti-recession measures that have not been implemented and the results are visible today. The cuts are proposed. And these cuts are savings on children, savings on free textbooks that will no longer be normal according to the proposal, transportation savings, pension cuts, salaries and citizens are rightly concerned with these announcements. The announcements through the third budget rebalancing. I think all of this requires a normal one turn, because the easiest thing to do is to talk about cutting, but it certainly raises the question of what is with income and certainly with what the citizens know, what about the revenues of all those who robbed Croatia through conversion and privatisation, war professors who have not been sanctioned so far, and this is an opportunity to return some of what has been kidnapped. The second problem is certainly the problem of corruption, which has already been talked about and certainly eradicated corruption would be a significant savings in this state budget itself. The third thing I would point out is a luxury tax. Certainly here is already said but also yachts and expensive cars but we also see through the application of officials, through tax cards, surpluses and housing, some talk about 3, 4 apartments, some talk about 7, 8, 9 houses etc.. I think there's room to tax and what, not to go to taxes on citizens who don't have any apartments because it's impossible, but certainly to those who have extras and real estate and yachts and everything else. The fourth thing I would suggest is the adoption of the Law on Tourist Land. We know that in this House we have been talking for many years that it is necessary, but it is also a significant part of the income for both local and regional, and for the state register to call it that. Because we know that somewhere around 20 million square meters of land today is used without any compensation. So neither is this land given in concession, nor is it sold. And I think that time too, to think about the revenues in that state budget, I certainly advocate progressive taxation, so all those who can pay more taxes because they have higher incomes, or higher salaries, is the reason that the rates are also corrected. And in the end, I would mention political projects. Whether at this point we need political projects, like the Peljega Bridge, like continuing to build highways, I don't think we need them at this point. I am not saying that they are not needed in these parts of the Republic of Croatia but surely if we do not have money then these projects must wait for a better time, or if they are profitable then they should be built by a concession system where they are not a burden on the state budget. And finally, I would mention that in this budget rebalancing, five million kunas were reduced in the capital support item of Pula General Hospital for a project that was built, a project to build a new Pula hospital. It means project documentation. It was delivered, so the job was done, it was delivered to the Ministry of Health and Social Care, and that is to say, taking down five million kunas, so the state won't pay the company that worked the project. So I think that by doing so, I am proving to myself, or the government proves that it encourages not paying inter-economic entities especially when the state is the one to pay its job. Here, this rebalancing I think is just an introduction to the third rebalancing, though, I think that this third rebalance for which pension cuts are announced and wages are extremely unacceptable in this situation where citizens and especially pensioners are extremely hard to live and absolutely disagree with such an approach, I agree with the approach to taxing those who have brought this country into this situation and whose property is known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37016	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37017	Dear Vice President, my dear colleague, you were probably confused when you talked about continuing the construction of the highway and the Pelješko Bridge, and I must remind you that the announcement that the Zagreb-Sisak highway would be finished in 2007, and then the media 2008 was speculated, and in 2009, it was also the date of 2010, after which there was a date in 2011 and now it is more likely to be further. So the question is whether this project was continued. And it's also difficult to determine whether the projects are continued, i.e. The work on the Pelješko Bridge is currently under way, so the underwater work is now under way.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37018	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Marin Brkarić. Order ladies, ladies, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37019	The exact state of the projects really does not know, but I have advocated that political projects and among them I believe that this is the Pelješki bridge and the continuation of highway construction wait for a better time and to build concessions such as the Istrian Ipilon where the state participates in the minimum of what was said before, so if we have no money, let's give concession and the concessionist will see whether this project is cost-effective or not. Certainly every part of Croatia deserves both the highway and any other infrastructure but when we all have money for it together. We can't borrow both ourselves and generations of new loans and get into a situation where we have to cut wages, we have to cut pensions, or... Which I absolutely object to. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37020	Mr. Agent Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37021	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Education is also a national priority in the new government programme. Education is consensually accepted as an engine of progress. We all agreed in Parliament, and I don't know any political parties that would oppose it, and we all agreed that we would make every effort to bring the knowledge society closer together. However, in two budget rebalancings miracles occur, i.e. It shall be tested for what is written on paper as a positive provision of the current policy. In the first rebalancing we lost nearly 900 million kuna, in the second rebalancing we lose 234 million kuna, so it turns out that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is actually the biggest contributor to the anti-recession measures in the country. The situation is very problematic, and because this budget rebalance very drastically eliminates some promised ones, and we would say some acquired rights. The transport of students in secondary schools since 1.9 is abolished, so free textbooks are also removed. And that seems mid - 7th month during the time of 1.9 when parents calculated that they had no such expenses because they were promised what they were promised. Free textbooks are promised for all pupils and students and free textbooks are promised every school year. And then, colleagues and colleagues, when they were parading with those promises, no one as far as I know, neither from the government nor from the Parliament denied those promises and put them... Then it was completely counter-conclusive that the students were given the full coverage of this year's textbooks and thus the state budget was damaged for the 100th and perhaps 200 million kuna, because from four ministries, which is also the present conclusion of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, it was proposed to the Parliament to make a commitment to the Government to find money for the socially endangered and for the transport and textbooks, and it would cost between 100 and 200 million kuna, which should not have happened. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, on the one hand, it seems to me that this use of scissors is very dangerous and inconsistencies, politically done terrible damage, but primarily to the ruling ones that we are not looking forward to. We regret that this has happened, because they will suffer a whole series of parents, and the budget rebalancing is cut in a very amazing and strange way. I'll give you just a few examples. Students' scholarships are at 97% of the rebalancing rate, so the first rebalancing of the planned funds. So, just at a time when there will be a big jag for money and there will be a great lack of money, instead of increasing the amount of scholarships and thus making it easier for parents to educate their children, those who are of course successful and who meet the basic criteria, we cut those items. Scientific projects and technology projects are actually the ones that should be the main and almost direct engines of economic development. We're reducing them by 5%. ... Not to go into techniques, one of the key methods of integration of the university in which we are in a terrible backdrop behind developed Europe and the world, is reduced to 2.32% compared to those planned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's practically shut down. And what is the elemental infrastructure support and the basis of scientific development, these are publications and magazines and scientific books fell below 90% of the first rebalancing of the projected funds. Now, when we entered the reform of education and the reform of natural science, we planned in 2002 that the budget for the Ministry of Science should grow further each year, at least 10%, in order to reach the level Europe had in 2002. Instead of 87% in these six years, the budget grew by 57% and thus showed one huge difference compared to the dissident and the situation that was planned. And what I really, of course want to say is that this approach to the education budget has again become a cost instead of being treated as an optimal investment in the future, which we do not agree with at all. So we disagree with this way of reducing the budget. We think that, especially in times of crisis, times of crisis must be the time of the naked truth, in times of crisis we should invest there which is the best quality and best way to get us out of the crisis, which is science and education. And besides, it seems to me that with this contribution... It seems to me that with a billion kuna contribution from the Ministry of Science, education has exhausted all its opportunities. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And, Mr. Minister, if it touches the new rebalancing into that ministry, I'm afraid the system will start shooting because it's too tense, so I'm giving you an application, no matter what I'm on this other side of the pay phone, to make sure we don't ruin the schooling because the recovery of education is a very painful and long-term process. So I hope that we have exhausted this contribution to education by the government's anti-recession measures, Mr. Vice President, and I hope that you will fully understand our desire to improve the situation in school, not make it worse. And to you, of course, you are part of the ruling coalition so that I address you with this application and with this dissident and that you will understand our reasons why this rebalancing, especially from the perspective of education, is unacceptable to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37022	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37023	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, here at the beginning my goal is to warn me of one thing that is somehow easily forgotten, and I think it's very important in the process of passing the law that the latest data is now from a few days ago. Investments in Croatia fell 60%, direct investment in Croatia fell 60%. Most of it is in the financial sector, but it does not need to be ignored that the financial sector is also driving the real economy. A year ago when we announced what might have happened and warned that there was a crisis at the door, that it should be taken seriously, and already a year ago the construction expansion in the summer last year was 13%. And then it was said that there was no reason to worry, that there was no reason for the crisis, although whoever had a deeper understanding, who had read further, who had read between the lines could conclude that there was certainly cause for concern and that is what is happening today. So, at a time when investments fell 60%, we certainly do not expect a quick and easy recovery. There is no quick and easy recovery with this information. When investments, direct investments fall 60% then it's not a warning, then it's not a current decline. Then it's a serious item. It's not about 10, it's not about 20%. It's 60% direct investment, 60% drop in what directly generates jobs, what directly pays wages in the economy, what directly fills the state budget. Now, you see, in order for the businessmen to come to you, it is necessary to have the continuity of the law, or it is necessary to have a legislative framework on which they can rely. And in any business cycle that stands out for us somewhere, let's say a short-term planning for any serious investment between 5 and 8 years is necessary that 5 and 8 years does not exist and significant changes to the law. I'll give you one example. The insurance law in Germany has not changed for 100 years, from 1908 to 2008. There insurance houses have played by the same rules for 100 years and that is something that gives confidence to economic operators, foreign investors who want to invest in Croatia and who want to achieve their business interest here, but also to open jobs. How's that for us? We're the Insurance Act here and I'm going to talk about it, so the continuity of the legislative initiative. We have changed the Insurance Act here three times in the last four years with the same explanation of compliance with the European Union. Bad message. Now, with this rebalancing, we've only been sent four amendments to the law. So, with this rebalancing, we're going to have four more amendments and additions to the law. The announcement is the next rebalancing in two weeks, and we already had one rebalancing in March. Three rebalancings this year simply a message to the investor public is not good. We can't or can't figure out what's going to happen and control what's going on in public finances. That message is bad. It is better to have one quality rebalancing with all estimates, because it is a stronger message and a sign that the Government or the Ministry of Finance can control what is happening and plan revenue or expenditure. Then, the Capital Market Act when amended. The law on credit institutions when amended. I'm just telling you about this part of the year and a half as much as I am. So I'm telling you about these laws that have come, they've been voted and amended in the last year and a half. It's a message to investors. No, the first pay cut in the public sector, and then we won't cut public sector wages, so we're going to cut public sector wages again. It is also a bad message because it says that we are unable to assess what will happen in the future and in the near future. So we're not talking about a far future. Then a couple of experiments. The smoking ban law, so I remember who yesterday when the minister announced that he absolutely did not give up and that there was no force that would force him to give up the law, and now it's mentioned and now he said the other day that it could change anyway because it's not "holy cow". That's what I'm talking about, the systematicity of law-making. Then, an experiment with Sunday's work. Last summer, we witnessed that the law had changed from the sea, from the summer vacation and from that regulation to the government. And then, more recently, now a month and a few days ago, that law fell in the Constitutional Court. This is not a good message to the investor public, because I cannot rely on the Croatian legislative framework if the laws here change and the same laws every month. Then the only anti-recession law to come to this House, and it came from the government, is a law to speed up the building permit process in 45 days. So I think it's not about the anti-recession law, and that's what I said then, but it's about simply allowing state institutions to do their jobs, that what in the normal world should be over in 30 or 45 or 60 days now has come for bigger investments. So, the law that forces the state administration to do its job. If I were an investor, too, I'd ask myself a little bit about the consequences of that law, and I'd think, listen, if it was me, if such a law came to me, which makes the state administration do its job for big investments, then obviously they have some delays in the very functioning of the administration. Then specifically the experiments that are now coming, like this Law on Medical Aided Insemination. I don't know what's going to be experimented on. I mean, we're also prone to crisis times, in times and the biggest shocks of the '90s, so in the war, at least the economic macroeconomic indicators were better. We are prone to experiment with laws in times of crisis which, I do not know which have serious consequences, and are not evasive, or are not systematically prepared. Then what other changes to the law? The whole change in tax laws, tax regulations in just the last year and a half. Here, I'll remind you of the redistribution of the profit tax, then the increase in personal deduction, which directly reduces the share of fiscal incoma, i.e. Units of local self-government from 16% to 14% and after adoption of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. So we accept the European Charter of Local Self-Government, we say that decentralisation, we say that consulting local self-government in lawmaking and then the local self-government reduces that share from 16% to 14% from 2 or 3 laws. Then the exemption of entrepreneurs from paying taxes in free zones. What they had previously been able to plan for 10 or 15 years has been abolished since 2009. ... Because of the system and the adjustment, although it could also be avoided, the meeting of Croatia's entry into the European Union of which there is obviously nothing for the next few years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that part is also a non-serious message to the investor public if he comes to invest here in Croatia, they tell him he will be released for 5 or 8 years of profit tax and then someone changes his law overnight and is no longer exempt from profit tax, i.e. he is only released part of it. These are things that are serious and which are systematic and should be systematically taken into account because laws cannot be changed three times a year, laws cannot be changed three times a year because the message to the investor public, to those who come here to hire people, to create jobs is not good. And that's why investments in Croatia fell 60% among other things, not only because of that, but also because of that. And when we talk about rebalancing and these measures that are second rebalancing this year, and there's going to be 3. It would have been better if it were one quality, than if it were a couple of rebalances because that's how you send messages from month to month we have a condition, we can't really predict what's going on and we'll be doing rebalancing every month if we have to. Yeah, that's what we can do and we have a legal option and that's not a problem at all. Still, the question is, how do investors, institutional investors who invest in Croatian bonds, perceptive to us? And as we're perceived enough, it says that here last month, and now that we've had a report on HBOR, HBOR has announced the opening of a short-term liquidity credit line. So, which so far has not been due to the growing indifference in the Croatian economy. And it's probably a failure, and I'm going to say in the end, that in a situation where free textbooks are lifted, you're probably confused here, or you've missed out on your loss to raise funds this year for a directorate for the use of an official aircraft and for the Office of the National Security Council. This is also not a good message in a situation where the resources for textbooks are reduced are increased. So here's not a good message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37024	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37025	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So... I need to find out that a young colleague and his exposure is better off with one real rebalancing than more of them, it's absolutely false and incorrect in these conditions that our country is going through, but not just her. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And without respecting foreign investors, I just have to defuse you. Today in Croatia in my city compared to the population of 30,000 we have an investment of 350m euros. The investor is Austrians and Germans. And young esteemed colleagues, too, highly respect the situation both in Croatia, but in their country because they have a GDP decline of 6.8 or 6.9% in Germany and they listen very well to how it was, not only of Croatian, European, but also of world capital and money flows, which is how our close countries have similar problems, which means that we have to react at the time when we can get the best results with measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37026	Vice President of the House, Mr. Neven Mimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37027	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. The moment of truth has come, one of the government's vice-presidents said in a debate at the government on the draft budget rebalance. Similarly today, the finance minister also spoke. This only showed whiteness what Croatian citizens have long known. That this government doesn't recognize even when it's the right time, or what's the real truth about the crisis that's eating us. Is it the reduction of this state spending of 800 million kuna or let it be 3 billion kuna as calculated by the Ministry of Finance, is that the real truth about the dimensions and depth of the crisis? The government's delay in taking measures is a major economic development strategy that would raise hope of leaving the economic crisis and recession due to delays, and it stretches all the way there until the beginning of 1. Sanader's government, they can't accept that we're without our own guilt, that we've been hit by a purely imported external crisis. Like that, I'd say a meteorological thesis can't lift the responsibility of the last three, basically the same government for this condition. There's a lot of reasons to look in the mirror and try to find and recognize everything that by its own doing and not by doing this government made things worse anyway. Another Deputy Prime Minister, the one in charge of the economy, assured us two months ago here in the Parliament that he already saw the way out of the crisis, that he could see the light at the end of the tunnel. Unfortunately, now that we have this rebalancing, when we have announcements of even greater rebalancing by the end of the year, it becomes all of us, and hopefully also vice president of the economy, clearly that light is not the end of the tunnel, but the light of the locomotive of the train that is chasing us. Today we have on the table this budget rebalance in which the government has failed to save even 800 million kuna, and all economic analysts agree that this year's minus the state budget will be at least 10, if not 15 billion kuna. We've heard the government's argument, and we're going right now with the next second one, or the third one, the next one, the one that's the big one. The vets wouldn't agree with this. They cut the dog's tail differently. Suddenly, the dog doesn't have to suffer needlessly. Two are major problems that make this rebalancing more painful than he and financially might seem. First, the government still offers nothing more, nothing more creative than budget rebalancing. There is still no systematic implementation of systemic anti-recession measures. Even those minimally unconstitutional and not too meaningful measures from a few months ago that were announced at that time, have never been fully implemented. And that's why today's budget rebalance seems to be objectively necessary. But when the government insists on avoiding serious work on the country's new development model, then this series of rebalancing becomes necessary also for subjective reasons related to an incompetent government. The other problem is related to the concept model of the budget's rebalancing itself, or perhaps it's better to say with the concept model of ruling this coalition in power, and this model is taking away, not creating. And that taking away the weaker because their resistance is the weakest. The obvious example is the abolition of free textbooks and school transport, which may also touch the limits of constitutional provisions on free basic education. From a bad coalition in power, only a coalition of such authorities with various large entrepreneurial and banking lobbys that break on the back of the poorest. And that's why this government has already shown too many times that it's more willing to tax income than income from assets. That it is more willing to think about increasing state revenues through a non-selective increase in tax and other burdens than ready to move towards a decisive reduction in state spending. In doing so, the finance minister for the budget deficit and for the poor tax system has persistently accused the ancient coalition government for 6 years. And there I am, and I can't help but hear it every time I don't remember that story about the man who was carrying a bag of grain in the mill and when he came home, he started yelling at his wife about how you tied that bag to me, and she got up to my mill nine times. And what might this determined reduction of state spending look like? Why doesn't the government go back 5 years, 4, 5 years, let's say in 2005, and it says in this year 2009 we'll have that state public spending in that part of the area that concerns, I don't know about subsidies, investments and all other expenditure except for public sector wages, the state and the public sector, except for pensions, except for social contributions. All these other expenditures will be at the level of 2005, and the salaries, pensions and social benefits will be left at the level that today is foreseen with all the regulations. So we would get to some budget of a hundred, 100, 105, 107 billion kuna, a decrease of 10 billion, 11 billion compared to this now valid rebalancing. All government expenditures other than wages and pensions would return to 2005, which was the year we survived quite neatly, with such levels of public spending. Of course, this rather simple budget recipe can only work successfully with two preconditions, that the government is finally starting to worry about the overall strategic development concept of greater creation than spending that will encourage production and exports, not consumption and exports, and that it is seriously affected by the inequity and non-payment of state and state companies. Such a new development model has been late for a very long time, which is harder when it is known how long it takes for structural changes to begin, but we must start without further delay, because fiscal and monetary measures and restrictions can no longer help. Crisis, time for structuralists, not monetaryists and tax collectors. The government can no longer be said to have freed bank space for new production lending, when there is neither production nor markets that could withdraw that credit potential. And indivisibility might be more successful if the government worked to accept a paying culture in time, not only on forced and short-term measures often linked to corruption in state-owned companies in deciding on faster payments. In this context, think about the gradual introduction of VAT payments to the charged rather than the invoiced realization could contribute to the state's interest in encouraging this particular culture of timely payment. All of this leads me to conclude that the proposed rebalance of the state budget cannot be corrected by amendments. He's so far away from solving our developmental and crisis problems that he can only be completely rejected. This coalition government has no right to 100 days' savings. The new prime minister only had 7 days to show whether she was our Croatian steel lady or perhaps Alice in a wonderland. I'm afraid by proposing this temporary rebalancing, it made it easier for us to get along in that dilemma. The proposed rebalancing doesn't balance anything. He's just trying to maintain his status... the government's spent model, but there are more and more social groups of individuals who are no longer ready to make peace with the growing gap between the government's policies and the lifespan, between growing promises and ever worse living circumstances. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This and this kind of budget rebalancing will only strengthen the public interest and public need for government change. That is why the right Deputy Prime Minister when he exclaims the moment of truth has come, but this is the moment of truth that early elections are inevitable. It's time to leave on time, and some people have already figured it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37028	Thank you. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37029	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. They say it's an old saying that a smart man doesn't care what he is now, but what he does in the future. Given the government of continuity, the main question is whether this government has the confidence to get the country out of the crisis? Why am I asking such a question? The first thing that government does with this budget and the time when it proposes it and still hints at the following shows that it is surprised by the crisis. Otherwise, we wouldn't be doing our calculations at a time when the Parliament isn't in session. So even now, the government is not prepared to deal with the crisis, because it is only now that it has to make a budget that would seriously curb the crisis. Second. The government does not recognise that the Croatian crisis is mostly caused by the concept of Croatian economic development. If this is not recognised, then there will be a concept that has been based on foreign borrowing and imports of goods for all 20 years. This concept is not only economically unacceptable for a long time and must be destroyed in itself, it is extremely social and socially unfair. It was based and is now based on the protection of the interest of very narrow numbers of Croatian citizens and the development on the coat of arms of the largest part of the Croatian people. Therefore, borrowing and consumption of imported goods had to lead to collapse, and the government had to know about the continuity for 5 years. We certainly would not be discussing budget and rebalancing today as we are talking today, nor the future budget as announced by the Prime Minister and Minister. Can this government be expected to change the concept? He can't. The government itself says that the government is continuity and that its policy will be based on the same parameters. Neither can it because the government has maintained the same structure in the country, but the HDZ remains the same structure. And this concept was imposed by HDZ 16 years ago. And because of this, it cannot be expected to change the concept of economic development of the Republic of Croatia. And it's even more drastic when we look at the government of continuity that has managed to bring in 5 years to increase the ino debt somewhere by 20 billion euros and something billion euros. So it's a completely wrong concept or the government continuity has a plan 4 and some drop in gross domestic product. And it was reported in the first quarter of this year 6.7. So how can we trust this government to get us out of this crisis? Where is the legitimacy of continuity and success in this government? What does the government offer? If we add that to me that it is the most important area of the sector, it is education and education that the government has actually cut the foundations. She cut off the future for Croatian society. Over a billion kuna has been reduced in the budget for a short period of time for such an important strategic policy of one country's development, one society. And then we really need to ask ourselves whether it was of interest to protect one policy, one party, or whether it was a national interest, that government of continuity? If there was only one party's interest in continuing this policy, then it is our duty to tell the citizens. Let's tell the citizens. So I do not want to take part and take responsibility for the follow-up of a policy that has been deeply missed from both economic development and from the point of view of social justice and justice. We say there is an imported crisis, and the Republic of Croatia has never fallen below 250 thousand unemployed workers. And we say it's our pleasure. And that trend is now increasing rapidly. This trend is increasing rapidly. We're saying we've paid back the pensioners, and now we're announcing a pension reduction. You could understand all that, I'm coming back again, but no one's offering for now from the government who are the engines coming out of this crisis? What anchors does the government mean to pull the country out of a crisis? A budget-cutting is the cutting of those items where there's no money. We didn't save anything, we just won't be in charge, because we have nowhere to go. If we had any more, we'd continue that policy. We don't have a place to be in charge, so we need to quickly, panicically, literally cut the budget by 12 or 13 billion kuna. And now we're gonna have sex, I could say without a lot of thought, because if there were thinking, education and schooling and science, it wouldn't have lost money. Each of us cares about the future. That's why it's not acceptable, I don't see any reason to think that the most important activity, especially in the crisis, is treated like that. There could be a lot to talk about, of course, but the fundamental question is, I'm coming back. Does the government have confidence that it knows that it has engines and that it is just to deploy the burden of the crisis in a way that ensures economic growth, exit from the crisis and social justice? If it's the government of continuity and it's based on the principles that this government had so far, we'll meet with the fact again in a short time, we failed. The economic crisis, the world's even stronger. Such pronunciation brings nothing good, and even less, because it is completely irresponsible. If we can determine the situation in society, and I think that we can, then we must engage, come before the Parliament and the people with the truth and bring radical measures, but radical measures that involve a fair attitude towards citizens and all layers in Croatia. And unfortunately, so far, no. That's why I have one more time, it's very important to be on the same structure in government and state, on the same structure in HDZ that could change politics? It's not possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37030	Thank you. Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37031	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. What is the backbone of the coalition government's budget rebalance proposal with the new Prime Minister? The first introductory sentence from the explanation of the spillover of the financial crisis on the Croatian economy resulted in an economic downturn of 6.7%, an industrial downturn of 9, somewhat, a trade of 17% and tourism traffic of around 9%. It's something we can't agree on. That's not true. And it is wrong to find that just overdoing the financial crisis is the result of this behaviour and I would say macroeconomic sizes because then we will ask what Croatia is indifference, who caused it, how much it is responsible for, what is the problem of Croatian shipbuilding, which is the problem of Croatian agriculture, which is the problem of inefficient administration, which is the problem of inefficient justice. And if we ask that question, we will get the answer that, above all, Croatia's problems and non-resolvement of Croatia's problems are the cause of such macroeconomic movements, and therefore, by ruling and we from the opposition cannot agree. Now, the fundamental question is, if the government sees the causes of the situation in the economy on this fact, it tells us that we will wait until this financial crisis in the world is resolved and we will not do anything because when it is solved, there will be a different macroeconomic movement in the Republic of Croatia and we from the opposition say we are dealing with the Croatian causes of these, I would say problems for the economy, these movements in the economy, and we will solve our problems more quickly. But regardless of that, even if the first finding of Mrs Kosor's government is correct, is it normal for the budget rebalance to propose fiscal policies in the function of the government's economic policy and that the government's proposals for economic policy affect the change in such macroeconomic movements. No, this budget rebalance does not have a single measure in place in terms of changing these negative developments in the economy and we have not received an active role in the budget through fiscal policy. We need to understand that the budget is not only about keeping the budgetary balance but is about the budget and the government's act affecting economic policy. Unfortunately, this budget rebalance does not have these significant signs of rebalancing, and that is why it is an unquality budget. We do not see with any government proposal what to do to change the economic downturn in the Republic of Croatia, to change trends in trade, to change trends especially in industrial policy, and all with only one result to stop the decline of the number of employees and the growth of the number of unemployed. It is evident that the most negative effects of this situation in the economy are increased numbers and amounts we must give for registered unemployed at the Employment Office. Therefore, the government did not offer us an active policy, an economic policy that would try to change the negative situation in the economy and with a view to changing the negative trend in some way. So we have a budget that is just trying to balance relations in the budget, and then we come up with even more difficult facts, and that's one part we're going to cut and another part we're going to show the budget deficits. And that's the only thing we can recognize in the proposed budget rebalancing. What can we recognize in cutting? In cutting then we can re-recognise government policy, we transfer the burden of this situation to the poorest layer of Croatian citizens. Even the announcements that went with this rebalance on the new rebalancing means the burden of the problem will fall to the poorest layers of citizens, and there are significant differences in the policies of the ruling and the opposition. For more than two years, we have been trying to make it very clear from the opposition that we have an even tax burden, that we have too much work burden, too much burden with taxes and contributions from workers, pensioners, employers or entrepreneurs, and that there is little or almost no burden on those who live in Croatia on property or property income. And we think it is necessary to make a change to that policy, that it is necessary in some way to put more burden on those living on property at this point. And we are trying to say that this is a richer layer of Croatian citizens who have to give something for public needs in the Republic of Croatia. For a year we have been intensively talking about it on the side of the opposition, we offer solutions as well. Unfortunately, we have a very clear message from the authorities. What message is that? No, I don't. We go in line with the burden only of those who live by work and the results of work. We won't touch anyone who lives on capital. These are messages that are so pure and unequivocal. And that's where we differ significantly. And we'll find it hard to find any touching moment to try to change something together. No, we're totally in opposite positions. The ruling wants to protect a rich layer and they don't want to redistribute. The biggest tragedy is that the burden of a failed economic policy, the failed budgetary policy, is further burdening the poor layer. Also today, for the first time, I must say that I have heard from most of the coalition partners that they disagree with such policies, for the first time except the HSS, we have had an uninterrupted debate over this policy. And obviously, we should have come to this crisis that a good part of the coalition partners realizes that they must change the policy of tax burden and that in some ways the burden of failure should also be passed on to those who live on capital and live better than the worker and the pensioner. Unfortunately, since they will vote for this rebalancing of important changes we cannot expect in this year either. The government is also responsible for projections and there is no excuse that we are constantly wrong with the projections in 2009. There's no excuse. It's the government's fault. We discussed the projections, with entrepreneurs, with trade unions, with experts or scientists here in Parliament between the position and the opposition and we could never agree. We were panickers, irresponsible, sending negative messages to the world, and the only government was smart and never hit judgments, ever. Yeah, that's true. But for no guesses, the assessment is carried out and held accountable. And that is why the Croatian Government is responsible. And she's responsible for us not having any safe salaries or safe pensions by the end of the year. It is responsible that the economy cannot collect its claims especially from the state and state-owned enterprises and that even workers of their companies will not have safe payments in a month or two and do not know how they will pay their salaries. It's all wrong of the authorities and their judgments. And that's why this rebalancing offers uncertainty to the worker and the pensioner.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37032	Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37033	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. We've been listening a lot all day about how this is just one light budget rebalance and how in two weeks, we're actually going to get that real budget rebalance. I have to say for all of us who are in education, who are from education this rebalancing is not at all light. In particular, I say not in the part of primary and secondary education, especially in this part of matters but in every family in the Republic of Croatia. Because every family in the Republic of Croatia has someone who either goes to school so they either go to school or they're parents or grandparents. And continuing what counterpart Leko had just said well was impossible from the same structure in power, in the government, from the same structure in the ruling party to expect something different policy. I can only conclude that in this part of education and education policy really goes on but in the state of ignorance. In this country, in these 20 years almost everything that could be sold, there's still some petty natural property or nature left to say, which I hope no one dares to sell, and we've spent a lot more than we should've spent. And to us colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, if we want to have our own development in the long run, if we really want to do anything with the state, there's only one thing left for us, and that's investing in people. And this long-term investment in people only goes through education and science and in no other way. This and this kind of rebalancing, not only destroying the state and the society of knowledge, some of us suspected it was just one cloud or soap bubble, that it wasn't a real policy and a real measure, but unfortunately it's now showing up. So, not only does it capitulate the knowledge society, it seems to me that we're stopping any possibility of the country's progress in the long term. A few concrete figures from this rebalancing, just as an illustration. A relatively small item or a sign. Gift programs minus 50%. It's no small thing. If we're not going to invest in the best to come up with innovations, they're going to come up with new technologies on how to move forward. For example, the development of knowledge-based small and medium-sized enterprises minus 20%, not minus 5, not minus 3, minus 20%, and that item was small anyway and only minus 20 refers to already reducing the first rebalancing item. Development of knowledge-based small and medium-sized companies. For example, analysis and monitoring of technological development, minus 40%, 40%, not 4, not 10.40%. The key projects of this government because that is, how you assured us of the Continuity Government even though we strongly advocated discontinuity in this part. The school network and one-way work project in elementary schools, minus 100%, no, zero. Building a network of programs and networks in high schools, minus 40%, not 5, not 3, not 10, 40%. Funding employment and self-employment education, an item that one would expect to grow, more and more people are jobless, the structure of education in the unemployed is such that it requires new learning, new persuasion to say so. Minus 20%. No increase, reduction. Project... i.e. the introduction of a new way of funding in higher education. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the time of the major high education crisis, our students were on the road, blocking colleges, minus 98%, not one, not five, not eight, minus 98%. And, of course, many times already mentioned topics today in the discussion of free textbooks, the removal of free textbooks for all, the abolition of high school transport, the abolition of co-financing of alternative programs. Elimination of co-financing, i.e. financing of accommodation and nutrition in dormitories. There'll be some more discussion about it tomorrow at law-making. However, I want to say a few sentences today. We heard during the debate a lot of arguments that we are in crisis, that we now have problems financing it so much, that it is not sustainable etc.. But our colleagues and colleagues didn't fall off the march. We have a free textbook project and a promise that everyone will get free textbooks didn't fall off the march. We didn't fall from the Mars promise, or plan to finance children's transportation in high schools. It was all based on the government's proposal voted this House. And all of this in a situation where I am personally and even some of us have for years warned that these measures are insufficiently designed, unsustainable, stellarly planned and ultimately in a situation of limited resources and the need to meet yet some major priorities deeply unjust. And we go from extreme to extreme. Two months ago, the minister's talking, everyone's gonna get the books, tomorrow they're not getting anybody because it's in the budget of zero. I wonder what'll be next. Of course, serious politics can't be run the way we're all going today, and tomorrow no one will, so the day after tomorrow, maybe somebody, in three years, let's all go again and then let's go again. We play with hundreds of millions of kunas, we play literally with hundreds of thousands of Croatian families. We make a promise, we push hard for it, and then we say no. Maybe the best example of that bad paradigm, irresponsible paradigms, is just free textbooks. Last December's big fight, the former prime minister yells at the then and former prime minister of the Primorac, in a crisis everyone has to tighten the belt and the Primorac too. The parliament, on the proposal of the same Primorac and the same Sanader, votes a law that says parents will participate in the price of free textbooks, no free textbooks because it is a crisis. Despite the law, despite everything, Minister Primorac, less than two months ago the press conference will all receive free books, fuck the law. All the books we bought, the state property, the resources of the state budget, we can throw in the trash, we'll buy everyone new now. So what now? All of a sudden, there's no one here. I'm asking Minister Shuker, it's still somewhere to worry about finances is your portfolio, who's going to answer for the dropped books. It's not just thrown books, it's a waste of 200 million budget kunas, because we could keep those books and share them this year if anyone else and the socially endangered ones. Who's going to answer for that? We're going to talk about this a little bit more tomorrow at law school, but I think this country has to give an answer, the crisis is a good opportunity and I'm saddened that we don't have an answer like that here. What is our development strategy? Breeding and education obviously aren't. What's left for us, colleagues and colleagues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37034	Thank you. Five-minute debate of the IDS club. Mr. Representative Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his word. Final review, Finance Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37035	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. I thank everyone for the debate that was usually bile, but usually when there are no arguments, it is also an integral part of our political folklore. But let me just look back on some arguments. Look, five years ago the education budget was 7 billion and something else, today it's 12, so 60% higher. Then everything could be done. Nothing can be done today. I still don't think it's black white, but somewhere in the middle, and if everyone had a little less self-esteem, and only a little more self-critic talk, I think they'd find the right diagnosis where we're being enlightened today. Because I'm saying, I said that in my address, if we've been attacking so many free books, and today the world is falling down because of free books, I don't think so. Also, if we look at how much Croatian Bank's funds are for reconstruction and development, how many times have they been increased, almost ten times since there were six, seven years ago, then we can't say there's no investment in the economy and at very favourable interest rates, 2 and 4%. You can't say that, the government has made that clear, that it has decided to go through HBOR to help small and medium enterprises and this new credit line for crafts that has not been introduced so far because of the problem that entrepreneurs can obtain credit easier and a more favourable loan. So everyone has the right to their own opinion, but the figures are what they are. And as for liquidity, they have documents, the HAC Supervisory Board, 10th month 2003, 2 billion 400 unpaid accounts are transferred in 2004. And I could count it that way, but I'd probably get an attribute again if I wasn't telling the truth, but the contract, in fact, a car competition and a non-existent building in Rijeka, exists in the tax administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37036	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37037	We move on to the 2009 proposal for amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. Proposal for amending and supplementing the 2009 financial plans: (a) Croatian Waters for 2009, (b) State Deposit Insurance and Bank Rehabilitation Agency for 2009, (c) Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2009. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the U.S.S.S.S.S.B. Representatives' Club. I ask the applicant's representative to make a statement on the amendments submitted. First, the amendment first, Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37038	The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept, because this issue will be resolved by the budget rebalancing that is currently being drawn up.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37039	Thank you. He's a representative of the club, that's the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37040	I'd like a five-minute break on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37041	I don't know why, they're amendments. There's no business opportunity without an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37042	The explanation is, I didn't expect the government to keep their promise, I didn't prepare for this kind of variant.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37043	Now, I'm setting a 10 minute break, so double what you asked for, and I'll see you here at 10 o'clock and 8 minutes. I ask the MPs not to go away without need, because we have a very short time left and we will finish the session. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. It's been 10 minutes. Since the amendment has been rejected by the government, the club's representative should go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37045	Dear colleagues and colleagues. We're all aware of how much this rebalancing needs this country. We are all aware that for six years in this country, a policy that has inevitably led to a crisis like this and that this international global crisis has only improved and has accelerated the arrival of this financial situation in the country to the very bottom. We also do not want to accept calls from today's government that have continued for the past six years, which calls for an opposition that has always warned that this will happen sooner or later. Which calls for that opposition to responsibility, today when it comes to cutting costs, when it comes to trying to get the state out of this glare. I come from Slavonia and Baranja where one of the main branches and opportunities for people to survive agriculture. We are all witnessing that on June 11th many thousands of peasants sat on their tractors and went from Slavonia to Zagreb before the Ministry of Agriculture. We must also be aware that these people did not sit on tractors and drove all day to Zagreb to see our former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader or today's Prime Minister, Jadransko Kosor. It has led them to understand that if such a policy continues in this country, that their jobs will not survive, that they will have nothing to feed their children of. Especially in these conditions when all expenses are cut, all social expenditure and most of these people feel the impact of this budget rebalance. Also today's Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor has participated in the government's work for the past 5 years, when these same people have been stimulated to raise loans, invest in farms, buy these new tractors that are mentioned today, but unfortunately with this policy these people cannot repay these loans, they cannot serve their jobs, their farms and seriously threaten to fail. In the past parliamentary elections, my party promised and therefore received votes to fight for their rights, to advocate that the budget cake is shared equally on all regions. We also ask that the cut of this budget and the burden of this crisis situation be divided into all regions equally. It cannot be taken to peasants and farmers in Slavonia and Baranja, and at the same time it is possible to allocate millions for the construction of such Peljeska bridges, which pay back some debts. Those businessmen who bought the land cheaply in Peljesac, and now wait for that bridge to be built and that country's price to go up to heaven. Also, today's prime minister has not been dragged into the language of June 11th. And then she knew very well that Sanader had ruined this country, that there was no money, that he was trying to frame these peasants, to promise them everything they wanted, just to sit down on the tractor and head home. These may not be high-ranking officials or politicians from the European Union that they need to be raised, but I don't think they deserve to be treated this way by the government and the prime minister. At that time, a billion-and-a-half kuna was promised to encourage agriculture to overcome this crisis, promising to stimulate the price per litre of milk, a ban on importing cheese was promised. None of it was done. In our amendments, 200 million kunas have been overlooked for this purpose, and it is only one drop that can ease this fire that burns in Slavonia and Baranja and help these people survive the economic and welcome the end of the crisis. Also Monday after that, when promises were made to milkmen, a promise was made to other farmers who had sown wheat, that the government would make an effort to grant a subsidy per kilogram of wheat to survive these high costs that the government also imposed on them. We can also conclude that at that moment the government knew that it would deceive the peasants and that it would not keep its promise. I also call on Mr Fristic, who is a coalition partner in the majority who has promised if the government cheats on peasants, that he will first climb the tractor and thus force the government to keep his promise to the peasants. Unfortunately, everyone is silent today, accusing us of increasing the costs of the session, even though the real reason is to cut vacations and swim at sea by two days. And at the same time, there's a demagogue that's going to be a working summer. I would also warn all those who have raised their costs for this session that they have no right to do so, that it is theft or robbery.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37046	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37047	Is the rule that costs can only be raised once a week when the Assembly is in session. That was done by my gentlemen on Monday. Please return the money you raised for the cost of coming to this session. Because you all have the right to hotels and apartments. And you knew the session was Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37048	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37049	Gentlemen, this isn't a zoo.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37050	Ladies and gentlemen. I am voting on amendments to one of the HDSSB's Representatives Clubs, which the government does not accept. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? An amendment to a club has not been accepted. It voted 8 for, 2 abstentions, 75 against. I ask the Government's representative to plead on the second amendment of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37051	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I can say the same answer as the first amendment. But for the sake of all parliamentary representatives and the Croatian public, allow me to give a broader explanation to the second amendment, however, of why the government rejects it. So, where does the club propose to take the money down? Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship of Innovation Subsidisation activities in shipbuilding amounting to 100 million kuna. I do not think there is a man in Croatia who is not aware at this time of the situation of Croatian shipbuilding, which means Croatian shipbuilding for the economy of the Republic of Croatia and what would happen if these money were reduced, to what position Croatian shipbuilding would be, and I said more so that the Government of the Republic of Croatia would provide new budget rebalancing additional funds for agriculture. So that's 100 million. Another 100 million are proposed to be removed from the maintenance of rail infrastructure and traffic regulation. So, another exceptional thing to say is the company that is in crisis and infrastructure that is in the situation in which it is, and I think that when we all argue, then we all swear that money should be given to both shipbuilding and Croatian railways. And when we propose amendments, then the easiest thing to do is to take it off some amount that's this big. I had to say this because of the Croatian public that we know how serious the Croatian economy is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37052	On behalf of the club Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37053	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the ministers present here. I've listened to Mr. Shucker's careful explanation and to say, in a certain way, the mourner's hand on the shipbuilding and on the railway infrastructure, or maintenance, etc. It is clear to us in Slavonia that it has always been more and more important than Slavonia and Slavonic peasants, as well as this time. You are well aware because what they say is a bag, with you is a cash register, as much as the shipbuilding is invested or the money in the last. ... I don't know about the Oilman, but don't bother me, Cain. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The last few years have been said about 10 billion kunas and this is what I would say the last tranche of some 800 million kuna shipyards that we will then sell to foreigners. So, the Croatian people, Croatian citizens from their tax obligations, will again invest another 800 million kuna in the shipyard. I'm sorry that someone wouldn't misread employees, workers, people who work fairly and earn their salary in shipyards, but we know about affairs and everything else where the money went... Don't shut me out, please. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] If crime is your problem then don't shut me down, that's your problem, that's not my problem. So, gentlemen, we know well about the Brodosplit affair and everyone else. As far as the railway infrastructure is concerned, everything where the money went missing in the accounts in Austria since so-called. The manager.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37054	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37055	Wait a minute, sir. You can't do it because of these... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37056	Thank you very much. I am voting on the 2nd amendment of the HDSB Representatives Club, which the government does not accept. Please, let's get involved and vote on the amendment. The result? The amendment was not accepted because it received 3 votes for, nothing abstentions and 83 against. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37057	Mr. President, thank you for giving me your word. Since we agreed that the amendment would not be tolerated. However, looking at this proposal for amending the budget rebalancing, we have found that there is a 10 million kuna recovery and development in Vukovar, so a reduced item. In that sense, yesterday I referred on behalf of the SDP Club a letter to the Prime Minister not entering whether it was intended to remove everything linearly or only a mistake, yet we believe that this will be repaired in at least two weeks when the real budget rebalance is made. For his part, the SDP will try to help a city that is abandoned and poor through local self-government leaders on Monday. These 10 million don't solve anything but leave a bad impression and a bitter picture.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37058	Has there been any change? Thank you very much. I am voting on the amendment and addition of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The 2009 State budget was amended and amended by a majority vote with 82 votes in favour, no abstentions and 41 against the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The budget law is now being put to the vote on decisions to give consent to the financial plans of extra budget beneficiaries. First, I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the 2009 Financial Plan of the Croatian Waters. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The decision was made by a majority of 82 votes, no abstentions and 41 against. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the amendments and additions of the State Agency's financial plan for the provision of savings deposits and the resolution of banks for 2009. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The decision was made by a majority vote with 81 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 40 against in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the amendments and additions of the 2009 Fund for Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The decision was made by a majority of 82 votes in favour of, 41 against, nothing abstentions in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Legislative Committee proposes to the Assembly to reach a conclusion that reads: The professional service of the Croatian Parliament is authorised to carry out... amending and supplementing the 2009 State budget and amending and supplementing financial plans before their publication in the National Journal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am putting the table to the vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This conclusion was reached by a majority of 85 votes in favour, 7 abstentions and 11 against. The Committee on Tourism proposes to the Parliament to draw conclusions: The Ministry of Tourism is obliged to refer to the procedure for the adoption of the Law on Tourism Lands. Does the proposaler's representative wish to make a statement on this proposal? If the government has accepted, then please engage and vote. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The result? This proposal for a conclusion of the Tourism Committee was adopted by a majority of votes, 108 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 2 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37059	And we will also discuss - The final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 is proposed by the Government. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. The hearing was conducted by relevant interested committees. Does the finance minister want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37060	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Only because of the minutes, since the draft amending the budget proposed to increase the deficit normally that the need for borrowing to finance the deficit is greater. So we propose that the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia in Article 26(1) amounting to 15 billion 344 million 114 thousand and 607 kuna be replaced by 21 billion 715 million 618 thousand and 932 kuna, and item 2 of the amount of 9 billion 823 million 717 thousand 452 replaced by 9 billion 823 million 273 million 729 kuna. Furthermore, in Article 3(3), the guarantee reserves from 267 million are increased to 667 million. This is what we talked about at the beginning, one part of the guarantees received by Croatian shipyards from the Government of the Republic of Croatia were activated and we had to settle them in the first 7 months of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37061	Thank you. Do the committees have any intention? They don't. I'm opening a debate. One representative is in an individual debate. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. He's not here, so he's losing his word. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Resume tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. Final draft law on the reduction of pensions laid down under the Law on the Rights and Obligations of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Officials in the Croatian Parliament, Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Education and Education in Primary and High Schools, Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on textbooks for Fundamental and Secondary Schools, etc. I'll see you at 9.30.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-13-0.u37062	We move to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009, second reading, P.Z. No. 405. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget was adopted by the majority of votes, 81 votes for, 1 abstention and 39 against. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors! We're going back to work. As announced we are going to - Proposal for a law on the reduction of pensions laid down under the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 406 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Miljenko Pavlakovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
