ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35134	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam MPs, gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all, and I would like to point out once again, even if the President of the Croatian Parliament has already said this, that the President of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Stjepan Mesic, on the basis of his constitutional powers, has entrusted me with a mandate to draw up the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Along with our coalition partners, the HDZ assumes the responsibility of managing the state in line with the voter's will shown in the last parliamentary elections. Allow Mr President-in-Office of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament to take on the basis of Article 109(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, I propose the following members and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. JADRANK KOSOR FOR THE PRESIDENT OF THE Government of the Republic of Croatia, JADRANK POSITION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE Republic of Croatia and the Minister of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, Mr DJURĐA ADLEŠIĆ as Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr SLOBODAN UZELAC as Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr GORDAN JANDROKIĆIĆK as Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, Mr Ivan Šukar for Minister of Finance, Mr BRANK VUKELić for Minister of the Republic of Defence and the Republic of Croatia, Mr. TOMISARK, Mr. As you know, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President, we delivered this proposal and the government's mandate programme from 2009 to 2011 and the life of the proposed members and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. What I would like, of course, to present first of all to the Government for the next period, which we still want to say today, further improved and revised, and these short changes will continue during the debate and will be obtained. Ladies and gentlemen, here I am with my team standing before you, and I suggest you accept both the proposal and the government's program for the next period, but also us as people who will certainly implement this programme. If you confirm me as Prime Minister, I will strongly advocate the equality of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, a society in which all citizens will have equal opportunities for advancement, development, knowledge acquisition and a man of dignity. In the environment, I repeat that once again, equal opportunities. By sincerely believing this, I will also invest my knowledge and effort together with all my colleagues and colleagues in the government in order to upgrade the foundations and framework for a common, better and better life with all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I took over from my predecessor Dr. Ivo Sanader without delay and prepared to take over the government of the Republic of Croatia as I also took over the party's leadership. As Prime Minister, Dr Ivo Sanader has always been guided by the interests of Croatian people, their needs, their efforts, their desires. I am grateful to him for that, and once again, in front of all of you, I would like to speak out loud and clear. It is our duty, ladies and gentlemen, to move on without delay, without interruption, without second thought, without delay and without calculating. The Government of the Republic of Croatia will implement in the next period a programme that is before you about which I will say a few words and at first highlight what will be at the centre of the attention of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This is primarily ensuring macroeconomic stability and creating conditions for recovery and stable economic growth. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to say a few words about the situation we're in today. We are witnessing the first decline in gross domestic product after ten years, which was 6.7% in the first quarter of this year. First of all, this decline in economic activity was manifested or resulted in a decrease in consumption as well as a decline in industrial production, construction and trade in goods. Here I want to make it clear and strongly reject all those calculations about how it's happening only to us and that it's someone from the government's fault. In fact, the economic economic crisis is a situation that has hit the whole world, Europe, of course Croatia. The world has hit a major economic crisis that has to a certain extent paved the foundations of the world economy. Look and I call on all MPs and MPs to analyse, and during this debate, everything that has happened elsewhere in the world, especially in Europe, for example Iceland or the Baltic countries, or Hungary. I will also mention the decline of the gross domestic product which, for example, hit Germany where a 6.9, neighbouring Slovenia 8.5, and we can move further from Europe, for example mention Japan where it is 9.1% with unfortunately a further trend. Of course, Croatia could not remain spared such a global crisis. We fight ladies and gentlemen against the crisis with all available instruments. And I repeat once again, I will repeat many times until the end of my presentation and the government and the program that it will be at the heart of our attention in the next period. And I have to mention one more time that precisely adequate economic policy over the past period has led to the fact that we have succeeded in countering and amortising current shocks. This is also said by the global and international institutions from the IMF to the World Bank. Ladies and gentlemen, I mention this in the context of the fact that, despite our difficulties so far, we have not had any problems with the regular implementation of the pay-out obligations, pensions and social benefits. I'm going to make a point here, and I think that's what I'm supposed to do, and I'm expecting extra payments for children or maternity benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, the recovery of the economy as a central place in the programme for the next period but also the continuation of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union. The blockades despite us working equally as if all chapters were open and all chapters were successfully closed. We are going to do our job again and again and again by the end of the year, and I am absolutely convinced that the negotiations will continue, that the negotiations will be unblocked and that we will finish this job by the end of this year. Ladies and gentlemen, the next thing I want to point out from the Government's programme is that we will ensure the international and security position of the Republic of Croatia by taking over and fulfilling the obligations arising from NATO's support and membership. The development of knowledge-based society in which education is available to all under equal conditions, with the maximum use of the benefits of modern information and communication technologies. It will continue to be one of the pillars of our work and the programme to preserve the dignity of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families because we in the Government believe that the fact that we cannot and cannot forget cannot be forgotten is expressed through the preservation of dignity that Croatian defenders are the most responsible for freedom and European Croatia. Certainly, the focus is on the stability of the labour market and the implementation of an active employment policy through additional training programmes, requalifications, reliefs and support for long-term unemployed, I will also tell women, especially women, especially women over 45 years of age, especially women who are victims of violence. We will encourage increased competitiveness through the competitiveness of Croatian agriculture, through promotion of production, support for income, capital investment and rural development. In particular, our actions will focus on intensive development of small and medium-sized enterprises through a harmonised state policy in all areas. We will certainly continue the systematic construction of the infrastructure as well as the integration of all ends and the availability of drinking water, gas and state-of-the-art communications everywhere in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, we will also advocate the systematic implementation and development of the Adriatic policy but will also give a special emphasis on the development and promotion of Croatian tourism, in particular through the strong integration of agriculture and food industry. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that we will take special care to protect the environment, to introduce order into space and the environment and to take further steps to prevent further degradation in line with European best practices. Our determination will certainly be in the implementation of health reforms until the end. We are giving strong support to the social partnership. I can say that in my work as a member of the Government, as vice-president of the Government, I was also on several occasions vice-president of the Economic Social Council, but certainly also president of the Economic Social Council, since there are three partners changing, I have good experience in cooperation and working with, above all, trade union centres but certainly with the Croatian Employers' Association. I know and I could listen, conduct several negotiations on basic, or collective agreements for both public and state services. And I want to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your excellent cooperation and with the unions so far, with trade union leaders, as well as with members and members of the Croatian Employers' Association. Ladies and gentlemen, I would especially like to point out that we will continue reforming the judiciary, certainly in the public administration, we will further strengthen it through the establishment of the Ministry of Administration, because if we get your support today, the new minister of administration will also take over. We want the administration to be strong, strong just for one of the most important reasons, and that's to be of service to the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, I would particularly like to set aside that we will continue our strong fight against corruption and organised crime, strengthen the rule of law, and in this context I see and launch a personal identification number, hence the OIB, as a strong instrument in the fight against all forms of crime, but above all corruption. We will fight for young people, we will fight for drugs, I want to make it clear that as far as we are concerned, the members and members of the government do not come in the form of any form of drug decriminalisation, against all forms of violence, especially through a programme that we recently accepted at a session of the government, a programme against violence among young people. I would also like to say on this occasion that my wish is too, we will try to give this a strong incentive to "wind in the back" to further involve local administration and self-government in this fight against violence, especially among young people. I want even clearer and more transparent public procurement, we will do our best to make this happen, and I think I can point out this right here because while I was at the head of the Ministry, the family and intergenerational solidarity, the state's audit for all the years, so, since the beginning of the mandate, since 2004, my ministry has been giving findings that have been impeccable, so the audit findings have been unconditional, which means that no single irregularity has been found in them. Certainly, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that we will be particularly committed to protecting all minorities in the Republic of Croatia against any form of discrimination. I would like to remind myself that in my ministry, I say in mine because I was in charge of him and I issued the Law on Disclosure of Discrimination as one of the strong instruments in the fight for human rights, the achievement of constitutional values which was one of the criteria for one chapter, to open. However, I would like to say that we have not done this for anyone but for our sincere conviction that we need it ourselves. I would certainly like to point out that we will create all the necessary assumptions for a balanced and balanced development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia and in particular support for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina who are there an equal, modern, constitutional people in that country. However, work to protect the rights and interests of all Croats around the world. Here are some of our basic goals in the program that we have presented to you. Ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, I won't say anything new if I say once again that the times in which we live and in which you will vote on the trust of the new government are extremely difficult. However, I would like to say that with full confidence, I am taking on this duty because all these years, and I have also had the opportunity to work and help when it was possible for all those who in any way touched the terrible hand of war and all the troubles of exiles, refugees, but above all Croatian defenders, disabled, families of the dead, imprisoned and missing, families who are still seeking their loved ones, I can say there were many, many more difficult times. And we have achieved a goal that is few who believe from those who have looked on the side, which is that we have our own country. Today, of course, is not without a challenge, but I think we can solve the problems, I think we have the strength, I think we have the knowledge for that. And I personally think, let me say, that we need a little more community in all of this. Fully aware of Croatia's further accelerated development in the context of the current European processes in light of the impact of globalisation, in the context of regional processes, I am announcing the continuation of all those positive projects aimed at improving the position of the Republic of Croatia. Certainly, in this context, I return to the economy again, which is the strengthening of the economy as one of the basic preconditions. So far, we have managed to keep what many have failed and I think the moment is highlighted, therefore, to maintain stability and the banking system and the stability of the currency, and if we have succeeded in all this, I am sure that we will succeed in other objectives. We are talking about the fact that we must really preserve every job, this is about support, about preserving jobs, about opening new jobs, about supporting everything that allows us and the standard that we have and the social incomes and the help of the most sensitive groups in Croatian society. Ladies and gentlemen, I've always been able to listen to others in my line of work, respect other people's opinions, always try to listen and hear what bothers people in everyday life, and what I can promise you, even now in times to come, it won't be any different. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, one more thing about Croatia and Europe. Croatia is Europe, Croatian values are European values. Therefore, to our friends, I want to tell our European friends here that we have done ours, that we do without the rest of our own, do our job, and at this point lies the burden of historical responsibility. Croatia in the European Union as soon as possible, but certainly not at all cost. We will complete the successful process of building international trust and unity. Croatia will be a full member of the European Union, or European family, of the European civilization circle to which we belong, despite the historical shortsightedness of our northern neighbours. Croatia will be a member of the Union, as is an active member of the North Atlantic Union. Ladies and gentlemen, my government will work hard on everything I've talked about. As I said, I have listened to many, long, often thousands and thousands of people, and I know that politics is really just one, day-to-day and hard and sometimes hard work, but in fact concrete and real problem-solving that real people have, so solving problems that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia have. All my colleagues and fellow ministers are aware of it and we will work on it together, and they will work with me on it. I call on this occasion and all leaders of parliamentary political parties to cooperate. My door on fundamental national issues will always be open on strategic issues. We're not enemies, we're just rivals on a political scene, and I want you to really make sure that there's absolutely no rest, and I mean what I'm saying right now. And now allow something very personal. I call this time as the prime minister for the new government's composition, especially all the female MPs, to give me confidence. Namely, and of course all ministers, clear to the ministers of the government. I'm saying this because here are many of us who are here, both on the right and on the left, often in different debates, saying why there are no more women in political life and we've always agreed on one, women should have the right chance. We talked about elections for Parliament, about putting them in charge of the list, about really being elected without being the deputy deputy deputy. Therefore, we have agreed on a fundamental goal, and women should be given a chance where the real power is and where the money is. Here is now a real opportunity for this because the President of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Stjepan Mesic, gave me a chance to be the prime minister of the new government. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, thank you for listening to me. I suggest you vote in favour of the programme that we have substrated to you both for ministers and ministers in the government from 2009 to 2011. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35135	Thank you to Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, Prime Minister for the composition of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35136	Dear Mr. President, the respected members of the future government, the respected future prime minister. Don't make my speech hostile. I'm about to start the way you ended up. I wish you every success from your heart. Your success will also be the success of the entire Republic of Croatia, your failure will be a failure not only of you and your ministers, but of the countries as a whole. However, if the government of Ivo Sanader failed, I'm afraid the rest of that government will fail. That's why I also advise you to be brave and to propose elections. People say elections are expensive. I say democracy has no price. It's the cheapest way to run a country. If someone takes one or two percent of something on a highway, that's the price of a choice. If the election removes those mentioned in the Washington Times, then we certainly profited. Mr. Sanader's resignation, in my court, destabilised Croatia, destabilised the economy. The former prime minister escaped. Why, we don't even know the reason until today. But also Mr. Sanader is not Mesic, Mesic is back because he broke up with one policy and Mesic never ran away from responsibility. You, Mrs. Kosor, also know, mentioned what you agreed to. I also want to believe that you will hold the government together with your authority, that every minister will not become prime minister. It should be feared that by leaving a prime minister the next day we don't get a lot of little prime ministers in this government. You mentioned an economic picture. In the first quarter of 2009, the gross social product you said in Germany fell more than in Croatia, in Croatia 6.7%. You mentioned Japan -9.1%, in Croatia 6.7. Slovenia 8.5, Croatia 6.7. That doesn't mean much because their economies are convertable, and we hardly can secure foreign exchanges either with regard to imports, whether to service external debt. And so much, when we know that there will be no support, stability in Parliament, etc., I think we must guarantee the institutions. That's what I'm gonna keep saying. Too bad the departure of the former prime minister may not have happened earlier, perhaps it is the strongest move that has happened in this country in the last six years. However, the institutions are stable, the president of the state, the governor of the Croatian National Bank, the Constitutional, Supreme Court, the newly formed local self-government, and what the Parliament must say is that the banks are safe, that the kuna is solid, that our stores are crowded, unfortunately there are few customers, that the season is ongoing and that if we do we will certainly be able to succeed. If the rest of the remains of that first government will get Croatia out, that's what we'll see. I think maybe you and I are in the same position somewhere. Let's not protect ourselves, protect Croatia. How? Early elections. Let's think about 20 or 27.9. This maneuver is legitimate. HDZ has most of it is not questionable, you have enough votes. That's not controversial. It's a dispute when the prime minister leaves without a reason. This is what offends Croatia, which Croatia fears, and in some ways Croatia is angry. Go among the people and listen to what people think. Croatia is neither only IDS nor only SDP, nor HSS, nor HDZ alone. I may be at your assembly 10 thousand of your members, Scanning this or that, but Croatia is voters. And if we go among the citizens, if we ask for trust, if we tell these citizens the truth, let's state what kind of policy we're going to run they'll choose the option and that way we'll get two, three years of peace. And this team, whatever it is, will be able to serve Croatia. Without a choice in six, seven, eight months we will have elections, and Croatia will be taken, kidnapped or destroyed for two or three years. That's what we have the right to fear. And what can we say? All right, first I see again there's not a single minister from Istria. It's a practice. What we need to say is that there's no money, that money won't be, that in 2010, it's going to be a difficult year since 2009, that the deficit is about 15 billion kuna, but we have to tell them that we guarantee their salaries, pensions, minimum social health standards. Let's call the IMF right away, 'cause he's gonna be here in 2010. A lot of redistribution policies according to the criteria of party membership, let's radically decentralisation Croatia, because this centralization has also destroyed the former prime minister. One man can't take care of everything, and he can't always blame us citizens for everything but the state. We guarantee the stability of the Kuna. They're all over-indebted. Let's increase consumption. I know it's easy to say, talk, it's harder to do. I was saying in 2008 that 2009 would be a difficult year. It's going to be a lot harder in 2010. I was saying in the fourth month that the central government deficit would be 20 billion kuna, maybe 20 billion kuna. That's when everyone used to make fun of me. Okay. But no matter what, let's tell the citizen the truth, and you future prime minister around people who will tell you Mrs. Kosor you're wrong, get rid of yourself. It's not just your problem, it's our problem, our country as a whole. But your problems will be our problems the next day. If we don't understand that, you don't understand, and you're going to have to go into Parliament through the basement and get out of Parliament through the basement like the former prime minister did on Wednesday 1.7 on your birthday, which in some way disabling the credibility of this House, not so much of his own. So don't surround yourself with the creeps. The first thing that should be proposed - to amend the Constitution, to choose the MPs directly, and then maybe everything in this country would be different. What we watched on Saturday at RTL, HRT, was a show of one person who was two key sentences. I wanted to shock Croatia and the world and that Bible quote that everything has its own time and time. I believe it's time for one man to follow us. What a good time it's been for some other time. The truth is, wages were regular, pensions were regular, we lived above the possibility. At one point we opened up to the world, so the world read us, blocked us before that. But good. What wasn't done? That we shouldn't be afraid of the fall and next year. In one word, I think Croatia has a chance to get away with it, but that's the worst thing he's ever left behind. He wanted to say shock Europe? Who are you going to shock? Bildta, let's say? Won't a Bildt break up summer vacation now? I don't know on the Azur coast because of Croatia. That's bullshit! After the composition of the HDZ leadership, the new government in the image and the work of former Tudjman associates, Europe will watch the work for a year and the future Croatian Government will decide whether or not to miss us in Europe. The former Croatian prime minister's move may enter Europe with Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The English have come to say I'll do mine. Slovenia may have been a front for them, but I'm also afraid they'll be watching us about this permanent flirtation with the philistine on the trail of yesterday's statement that a Luboric fought for Croatia. That's scandalous! That slayer fought for Croatia. No Croatia without Jews, no Serbs. I'm afraid it's a right-wing gathering in this Croatia, but another occasion. The second says he wanted to shock Croatia. Well, he shocked tourism, stock market, export, banking system, credit rating, CNB, etc. That move was a shame. Today I don't think the former prime minister will return to politics. And yet again to quote that Old Testament that everything has a beginning and an end. I'm also interested in what the end will be if the truth is with the $500 million I don't know where. It's a good thing the SDP gentlemen talked about HRT too, so I'm not the only one being sued. While HDZ has HRT, they can be in power. And there's some things that need to change, too, but they're going to change. Croatia should not kneel before Europe, but also Europe will not kneel before Croatia, but Croatia must be the goal of entering Europe. Croatia has a problem with Slovenia, but the solution to this problem will not be found in Zagreb, not in Ljubljana, not in Mark's Square, not in Pantovčak, not in the Old City of Ljubljana, but in Istria. And ask how this problem can be closed and you've definitely put it ad act already. I just don't know if there's political will. What you are offering today, I do not know Mr Pankretić, Deputy Prime Minister of Agriculture Mr. Cobanković, Ms. Matkovic, vice president without portfolio, is trade, trade and trade. With these people, I have the impression that the former prime minister is still the strongest figure in Croatia. But, ma'am, not Mrs. Kosor, but Mr. Sanader. He may well sleep for that reason to Zubovic, Mr Zubovic. The question is whether Mrs. Kosor will, too. Oh, my God. According to the prime minister, no one will have any more consideration today, the responsibility is at the prime minister's future. I'm sure Mrs. Kosor, we've known each other too long, and I want every success, and believe me, I honestly mean it. Mr. Sanader was bringing good news. I think Mrs. Kosor will be carrying a bad country. But the country needs it, she needs faith, she needs hope, she needs some way out of that apathy. It's not all black, it can be, it can always be, there's a way out. This country hasn't gone bankrupt yet, it hasn't gone bankrupt, and that's what needs to be said. And everything needs to be done that, don't let God get to the worst. Everything has to go its own way, that's to say, without this, without that, without everyone can, the individual is an individual. There are 4.5 million people living in this country, and if not one, some others can inherit it. We see, banks normally do business. Let them question their profits, the factories how-so in those problems, tourism goes, twists work, everyone has problems, we see, the tax administration should also have hearing, but I want to believe that anything can be done. The government can help, we need to review the expenditures, help those who work. It can be if this is the end of one policy and we continue with one new policy. Mrs. Kosor, you have a chance, take it. Don't underestimate the people, listen to the people, and I think this is our people for elections. I repeat, if the government of Eve Sanader fails, I doubt the rest of that government will succeed. Let's not go to our neighbors' first party right now, you can't talk at some gatherings like... Because the next day we will have to live with them again, but no matter what Croatia may, citizens do not need to panic, but they certainly have reason to be concerned, and I will wish the government once again every good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because of all this, IDS won't vote for prime minister, they won't vote for ministers, they won't vote for the government's trust, but if we can, we'll be happy to help you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35137	Thank you. According to the first debate, we will have a lively discussion today. So let's see, we have 9 corrections of incorrect allegations. That's what I'm telling you to get ready for these. First is Mr. Ivan Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35138	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, since a colleague often spoke about the Bible, I would say that just one Mythical and Bible Cain killed Abel, and today he killed the truth. It's absolutely incorrect for a colleague that Sanader escaped. Sanader said what he was doing that move and made it clear what he had to say. Among other things, he even said for strengthening democracy. That's what he said. On the other hand, you yourself denied that statement when you said he escaped because you said it was the strongest move in Croatia. So how can one who escaped make the strongest move in the Croatian state? And finally, speaking of Mr. Mesic, about my president, the Croatian president is getting the most beautiful, the most beautiful, and while the president is getting the most beautiful, but when his term is over, I'm going to ask him how he broke up with Tudjman's policy after the Croatian and Muslim conflict ended? That's when he split up, and he built the whole thing, and I don't know the theory of the divergence that you're talking about and what you're going through with the whole public. Mr. Cain, don't deceive the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35139	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35140	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Cain said a whole series of incorrect allegations. I'll just deny it for a short time of two. First, I quote, "Government of Eve Sanader has failed." Comrade Cain, you might start following economic and social indicators and comparing them, and others might obviously, and comparing them with neighbouring countries. I'll just remind you of a few successes of the government of Eve Sanader. On the international plan, NATO entry, entry into the Security Council, on the economic side, almost zero the budget deficit rate at the beginning of the crisis. Therefore, only a small part of the crisis has affected Croatia, with regard to countries in the region, to some members of the European Union. That's all Mr. Cain does, and some people don't understand. But that's why they're going to tell you the latest indicator of the union basket that he published three days ago, published by an independent union and said that the basket was cheaped in June compared to May, quote the unions, by 37 kuna or 0.57%. It is the only cheaping of a union basket in the region and in the European Union. It's only that much data. And now I finally have to deny Mr. Cain who trusts some typewriters who say in today's list that I'm some kind of fascist criminal advocate. Mr. Cain, if anyone got born into their blood vessels antifascism, I got it. I've never praised any... I know that Mr. Cain can't understand, I've never praised a single criminal, except I put him in the context of history, that a criminal was and should have been tried, not killed on the street. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35141	Thank you very much. Mrs Ivanka Roksandić, correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35142	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm correcting Mr. Cain's incorrect claim, though I don't know what should be corrected anymore, because he's often contradictory in his speech. He said: "If the government of Ivo Sanader fails, neither will the rest of the government." Falsely, Mr. Cain, in these six years Croatia has become a very recognizable country in the region, a country of stability and security, from reform to NATO entry, we have started fighting corruption, in all segments of this society reforms have started. And what you keep saying and trying to bring Croatia to the bottom, don't do it for the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35143	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35144	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, he incorrectly claimed that if Dr. Sanader's government failed, then neither would the rest of the remains, the remains, as he stated. So that only one strategic goal, which has been achieved, which is Croatia's entry into NATO, should then be congratulated on that government because this is the strategic goal Croatia has advocated since its independence. Not to mention the fact that today from Europe we are clearly told that we are at the doorstep of the European Union. These are the two strategic goals of the Croatian state which managed to achieve the Croatian government under the leadership of Dr. Sanader. And as for Mr. Bildt's visitation on the Azurn coast, I have to correct you, he's not resting on the Azurn coast, he's resting on Korčula where he has a house.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35145	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragan Vukic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35146	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Cain has cited many incorrect allegations and it would be very difficult to correct. I'll try to correct what he said. And he said on Saturday, thinking of 13. The General Assembly of the Croatian Democratic Union said it was a show of one person. Mr. Cain, he was not one person's show, but was the largest political meeting in the Republic of Croatia ever held. You'll never be able to make such a gathering and of course you're jealous of it. Here in the Parliament you are making a show of one person and as a showman you are experienced by the Croatian public, especially when you advocate extraordinary elections. Well, the fellow election was a little over a month ago and you'd like every Sunday to be an election.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35147	Thank you. It's good. Thank you. Mr. Josip Djakić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35148	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, it is incorrect that by voting and continuing the government's work in the amended composition with the prime minister, citizens are taken two to three years. It is already true that the new elections would be spent time and money. And nothing would really change. The same composition remains. But Mr. Cain, you're a really destabilizing factor for everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35149	Thank you. That's an opinion. Just what he said, so say this isn't true, it's what I'm saying exactly. Then it's a correction, not that, right? Mrs. Bozica Solic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35150	Thank you very much. I'd pray at the beginning that the SDPs don't rule me out when I'm making corrections, please, Mr. President. Here's Agent Cain in his debate that was full of inaccuracy and full of some new knowledge, which I've never heard, which he said here in front of the pay phone, but I'm going to correct him in two incorrect allegations. And that's that the Prime Minister, former Prime Minister Dr Ivo Sanader, escaped and was a coward and that HDZ is a coward. Agent Cain, that's not true. That Dr. Ivo Sanader escaped. You listened very carefully to what he said at the party meeting that was the biggest since HDZ. And if you're a politician, you can figure out why he's gone at this point. That's one thing. And secondly, Dr. Ivo Sanader was never, not even HDZ was a coward. Since the 1990s, the creation of the Croatian state until today, HDZ and its leaders have never been cowards, like some who left this assembly and showed that they have made a cowardly move. That's right. Think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35151	Thank you. Mr. Boris Matkovic, also the same correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35152	Thank you, Mr. President. I will try to correct two incorrect claims in this famous, theatre but certainly always contradictory performance by my colleague Cain. The first claim concerns his claim of instability, uncertainty after the prime minister's resignation. Mr Cain, you should know that the parliamentary elections of citizens have entrusted the mandate to manage political processes with certain political options led by the Croatian Democratic Community. Some of the most valuable public values are stability and security, and they cannot be achieved by calling for early elections and instability in Parliament. Your second claim, that someone here grandes the uprising, is not correct. It is quite different, which is that you from the IDS led by your President, Mr. Jakovčić, recently brought to Istria Mr. Alemani the man who took the picture under Mussolini's picture and, together with Mr. Obersnel in Rijeka, performed a gift to Mr. Allemanni, and Mr. Bandic came there for worship.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35153	Here's your coalition partner.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35154	Thank you. And Mr. Berislav Roncevic, the correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35155	Mr. President. I'm correcting two incorrect allegations from my colleague Cain. He said in his opening statement that he doubted the success of the government of Ms. Kosor's work, that the programme was not complete, that the programme would not yield results. Mr. Caine, you said the same thing in the debate when you discussed the trust of Dr. Ivo Sanader and in 2003 and 2007 all the financial indicators denied you. Give yourself time and time will deny you again. Another incorrect quote, he said two sentences. I don't see a single minister from Istria again. There's no good money. If he connects it, then that claim is not correct. Mr. Cain, you don't buy a place in the government. If that were the case, Mr. Cacic would have been in the government a long time ago, even the prime minister, provided he didn't forget to run.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35156	Don't mention those who aren't present, no matter how much you think of them. Please, one more since I expect further dynamic debates and corrections, I ask you not to thank the President of the Parliament for giving someone his word. Well, it's his job to give his word. So you must lose it for 20 seconds because you say thank you, this, that's what you call it. Unnecessarily. I watched in other parliaments rise up and speak at the same time. So be it with us. And now, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35157	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. To start something very personal. The SDP club has a lot of colleagues and we don't put them on the list they're not garden dwarfs, they fought for their seats. They were selected in various ways, very often and secretly, and therefore there are almost 35% of the representatives of the sub-represented sex in the SDP club. And their male colleagues don't automatically give me confidence, but to always be skeptical and critical, and that only by common sense do they judge when I'm telling the truth and when I'm not telling the truth. I needed to start in person. And as for Croatia today, here's a sad piece of information. There is a newspaper of these and such, boulevards, those broad, those narrow, those who are believed to write bars, those in which some of our citizens write, and so one of the newspapers that I hold the most, one pillar of free journalism in Britain "Economist" in this number from the weekend a few days after the former Croatian prime minister resigned that act, some of them have it up, in this first part dedicated practically only one sentence "It's gone Croatian Prime Minister" mentions the name, without explanation. The second sentence speaks of the halting of Croatian negotiations with the European Union. Frankly, I would be happier if Croatia had devoted at least one article in that second part of "Economist", at least as much as it is dedicated to Albania or Kosovo, Albania with which we joined NATO but did not. Are we happy? Is that what we're happy about? Are we out of our minds? No, I don't. I would like Croatia to be written more well, bad but critically and objectively when there are reasons, but unfortunately it is a picture of Croatia today in the summer of 2009. Today they will talk about the government, about the government's proposal, about the Prime Minister, about the government programme that has been given to us on the benches of a number of members of the SDP club, a number of colleagues, a number of colleagues, I will not take away any topics and creams, but a few details. We often talk about a crisis that has hit the whole world in an unremembered way. This crisis is mostly financial. It is not productive, it is not the result of war and destruction, the bombing, it is the result of an unscathed, gramistical and impatient system in which some wanted to earn too much and then for a moment, I believe only for a moment and in history the moments are measured for years, two pulled into this state of stagnation somewhere and despair and uncertainty all over the world and so our small but only and all dear Croatia, the only Croatia. While we could borrow and see that debt, this foreign debt has increased in the last five years 20 billion euros to today's high 40s. As the money worked like that, there was, unfortunately, no money today. If the country's in front of bankruptcy, I'll never use that word. I don't believe it's bankrupt and I believe there's always enough internal reserves, strength and vision to get out of a difficult situation and we're in a difficult situation and it's not only measured by dry figures about how much the social product fell in the first quarter of this year but also by some other objective indicators. This is one topic to think about. If it is possible that in Slovenia which is a member of the European Union and who has been a member of the European Union for months now of non-discipline and non-neighboural blockade Croatian entry into the European Union with all our problems of imperfection, the deficits we could have already been there. If in that Slovenia it is possible to drop interest rates on bank loans, active interest and Slovenia is richer than Croatia and if it is possible that interest rates on loans are also falling in the east in neighbouring Serbia, if in Serbia they are the dominant owner of foreign bank banks, if in Slovenia they are slowly but inexorably becoming different. It is an important issue for hundreds of thousands of Croatian citizens. I haven't heard a word about it in my opening speech. In addition to a few of the chiefs of the finding that the situation is difficult it turns out that everything is honey and milk, it turns out that it just keeps going where it stops. I can't support that. We can't support that. More than 40 years ago, a great book was written, I believe that my colleague Ćosic has no bench unlike "Economist" who has "Profiles of Courage" in which later killed John Kennedy writes about what courage is in politics and for example a dozen senators from 250 years or 200 years of American history explain what courage is and what is leadership in politics. It's not the courage measured by bullets, measured by days on the battlefield. There are here amongst us and such with such courage, they are honored, I look at them on both sides. Courage in democratic politics is something else. It is the eternal question whether as a politician you want to be a simple seismographer who measures earthquakes in the state of consciousness of the public of his constituents and those he considers to be his constituents, or whether you want to be what people have chosen you for, for your common sense, for your ability to have sound judgment and awareness that certain things should be said clearly. Sadly, we do not set a good example. In the fall of last year we spoke from here in this assembly many of us have been waiting for us. On your part, gentlemen, on the side of the Prime Minister at the time, there was no clear need for political courage for these facts to be admitted. And today we are where we are. We're not in an unembarkable position, but we're going to need a lot of political courage and profile in courage to face it and say what needs to be done. Our position at this time protects those who are hard and who do not have and among them is very many of those whom you automatically consider ladies and gentlemen from HDZ to be your constituents. All right, but these are primarily Croatian citizens. In this turbulence, if the oxygen mask falls, there must be enough oxygen in that mask. There are also defenders from whom we often start but also many other social categories which unfortunately have been put into a poor development policy to depend on the budget. And on the other hand, I would expect to hear more from a party called conservative and democratic, which will be spoken more of by a party that is traditionally European left and centrist, the left center, which is the SDP swing of those who keep this country in constant positive tension, which it creates, which for the last ten years of the year has been increasingly called those entrepreneurs small, most small, not large, those who live from their work and today live from their work is not like 40 years ago, it is living from their knowledge, energy, intelligence and vitality. It draws Croatia forward. I have also not heard a word of what we are going to do here except in short hints because without this category of our citizens Croatia will remain buried in place and until the valves of foreign credit are opened again and we can't go forward. And so let's not always compare ourselves to the Baltic states that have grown on a speculative basis for years, in which services are semi-developed and production is not at all, which are 100% owned by foreign banks. Let us not compare ourselves with Hungary in which the situation is rarely a bad situation as a fruit of thoughtless and gambling policy as the country has rarely fallen into. We're comparing ourselves to our neighbors in some things. That's what we need to take as a role model. But first of all, to find political courage within ourselves, not to ignore what we consider to be our own, those zherism in politics that people are told all the time the things they want to hear. It's a policy that has its limited duration. After that, she's toxic. We're in a state of toxic shock, but not yet a septic shock, if doctors need to correct me, let them correct me. There is hope in recovery and from you, Mrs. Kosor, the future Prime Minister, and that is obvious, I expect that political courage, I expect you to be a profile in courage you and your associates, so whatever happens. Early elections, therefore, not extraordinary but early elections are something we considered and we still consider a good solution, the need for the public to be re-determined at this difficult moment and to say what it is, because the circumstances in Croatia have changed greatly in the last year and a half, but we cannot forcely do so and we will not forcely. We respect the institutions of this state, we respect the Parliament, we respect the Constitution, we respect the right of the majority, we will not support the government, it is logical for the opposition, but we will also not be destructive, because we have never been. Gentlemen, more courage, more political courage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35158	Thank you. We have a few corrections. We'll start, first Mr. Kresimi Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35159	Your Honor, Mr. President. Representative Milanovic incorrectly quoted a prominent world magazine "The Economist", this weekend, page 6, says the exact reason President Sanader is unhappy with the Slovenian blockade, please, I will read to you, it should have, dear Mrs Pusic, done by Mr Milanovic when quoting this distinguished magazine. ... Minister, since it is not spoken in English here, please read page 6. It says clearly: "Croatia hopes enyoing the EU, had been... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With Neighbourd Slovenia, you did not say that, there are clear reasons and you misquoted a prominent international magazine in the Croatian Parliament, you have no right to do so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35160	Thank you. Mr. Jerko Roshin. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35161	Mr. President, my correction to an incorrect quote is happening the way I mean that the correction of an incorrect quote is. So there's a possibility that something isn't said, but it's suggested. And that's the question of garden dwarfs. I think the story of garden dwarfs suggests some conclusions that are absolutely not true. And if I were talking about garden dwarfs, on the other hand, choices on the other side, I'd consider myself rude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35162	Thank you. Mr. Niko Rebic. Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35163	Well, you said colleague Milanovic that this government has done nothing for entrepreneurs, especially small ones, who should get this country out of this difficult times of crisis. That's just not true. While you were in power, therefore, the coalition government, in Croatia there were 8, believe in letters and numbers of 8 entrepreneurial zones and in five years this government of entrepreneurial zones is 320 in Croatia. I don't think we should talk about who stimulated and developed entrepreneurship and who actually had no vision of anything being launched in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35164	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, I would have corrected Mr Milanovic, where he said that Mrs Kosor hadn't mentioned social categories, had she not mentioned the defenders, she mentioned it, you said she didn't look back and you listed some other things. You also said to be corrected by us who are doctors, I can correct you, you penicillin can't be or will ever be a cure even though you've alluded to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35166	Thank you. Correction Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35167	Mr. President, there's only one incorrect assumption that early elections are the only solution. Because such a solution is not true and early elections are not a solution, because you are asking God not to, because all your estimates are clear that you can't get them, that locals have shown that you are much weaker and that you don't have the right partners for new choices.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35168	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, several times already in the debate mentions the former Prime Minister, etc., it is political, can be said correctly, but formally-legal, because the government exists until the new government is voted. So the Prime Minister's resignation is still the technical president of the government, I think just enough to clear that up at that level. According to our decision of Friday as well as under the Government Act and the Constitution. So let's move on now. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35169	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, the respected members of the future government. First of all, we have before us a process that shows that Croatia is a mature democracy that its institutions function. The ruling coalition has made a plan to bridge this period to the new government. The opposition criticises but is correct in the framework of democracy, the country's president named the prime minister as soon as possible. Today we will vote the government and Croatia will move on. It is the first and most important lesson from the period behind us. But I would still point out the government's programme because today we are discussing it. And I would like to point out why the HDZ majority party club will support this programme. Because the programme touches the most important problems and the most important areas that are expected in the near future in front of the Croatian State and which this government, as you can see, is intended to address. First, it is macroeconomic stability, an absolutely important part of the programme, which clearly stresses that it will continue to work on a minimal increase in the deficits of the State budget, maintaining fiscal balance, fostering those parts of production that create jobs, so the current coalition government continues to be tailored to the new conditions of the global crisis. The second place is the continuation of negotiations with the European Union, no less significant, no less political, no less economic. Regardless of all the difficulties, regardless of all the criticisms that we have made to the European Union, regardless of all the problems we have with the neighbouring Republic of Slovenia, this government will continue to negotiate, will not stop the composition, will lift up the mustache that has been laid down for us and will enter the big door into the European Union. But what I am stressing here in this second objective, which is the European Union, is clearly written in the programme, but with the preservation and maintenance of the state, national, political, cultural and economic self-loathing of the Republic of Slovenia. So there is a limit that will not go beyond and which has been clearly defined, and this is not a trade with those interests that would endanger the integrity of the Republic of Croatia. Thirdly, as you can see in third place international security, our NATO activity, our support for the international coalition against all possible global threats, and unfortunately, as we know, there are several serious hotspots in the world. The home plan next highlights the knowledge society, so what Croatia must raise in the ranks of highly technologically developed countries, in which we have invested a lot of effort and money and what this government will continue, of course, in sustainable development given the global economic crisis. Next thing you know, it is the dignity of Croatian defenders. It's put in a high fifth place. Maybe it's not bad that he's in such a high fifth place, because some who, as in advance, as evil prophets, try to put discrepancies between coalition partners in this government. They tried, here yesterday we see on the cover of a circulation diary, to insert a cuneiform discrepancy between the government that is not yet in this House and our defenders. Although it is known that this government for defenders has done absolutely everything possible, that this government has restored dignity to the defenders, that this government has made all financial support possible for the defenders, that it has raised them to the highest level of reputation and dignity in Croatian society, we saw yesterday on the cover of a diary "The first move of the future prime minister will be to cut the rights of defenders". I hope this program convinces the unfaithful Tom. This government will continue towards the defenders the same course it's had so far. Next in the programme which I certainly single out as one of the most important points, it is the integration of minorities into Croatian society. On the issue of integration of minorities, respect for their rights, not only to the normal level in Europe but above that, the issue is the main test of the maturity of the Croatian state. And this government in its program has highlighted it in a very high place and shows that our old, well-drawn direction, minorities are our wealth, we are proud of them, and they must not feel any of what these unfortunate prophets are predicting. With high goals in the programme, it is certainly necessary to mention refugee returns. Highly set goal of this government, among the first six or seven, in which we have done much, but as we know in agreement with our coalition partners and friends, we need to do even more, speed it up. Of course, there will be a need again to understand the framework of the economic situation, but the priority is undoubtedly marked. Further, small and medium enterprises and agriculture. The program says it's tight enough. What will this government do in this direction? It will continue, as far as agriculture is concerned, all that is possible and to put our agriculture in line with competitive European countries. As for small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, what we have done so far, 320 entrepreneurial zones with a huge number of employees, but also a huge number of large entrepreneurial ambitions presented and the ambitions of Croatian entrepreneurs achieved, this is something of the most important that can be supported in the economy. This government has made it clear that it is a high goal. The government also, as you have seen in the programme, continues the social partnership that has led to a very high level, there are always improvements. The dialogue between the government and the social partners, so unions on the one hand, employers on the other, is a mandatory link in the chain of making any government decision that is before us and it is clearly drawn here. This is very important in order to maintain social stability under difficult economic conditions, but also economic entrepreneurship in the same conditions. It is a scale that is often difficult to balance, and that is why the government has put it high in its goals. And not in the end, the concern of socially endangered groups, the concern of continuing the health reform that has so successfully begun were also the high objectives of this government and therefore I think that this government should certainly be given support. In addition to these, we can say the dry facts that each programme must contain, however, we must look at the political framework of the work of this Government, which is also listed in this programme and in all stages, of our current mandate. In these high goals, other than European orientation, democracy is also being developed. The democracy that has matured to that level in Croatia in twenty years so that we can compare it with the countries of the old European Union. The rule of law is also very high in priorities and thus being denied some, I will not say conjecture, but the planting that the new Croatian government with its partners will now block some investigative actions, some affairs and some processes. I repeat, no. Let the institutions do their job, let the authorities of the state administration, without political pressure, bring all the affairs to an end. But once again, let's not prejudge, condemn the leak of information, let the interior minister read what happened before he gets the information. And worst of all, let's not let the politicization of such affairs until we have the rightful word of competent institutions, because then we've done double evil. Finally, but not least, the orientation of this government and this coalition remains anti-fascism. Those who want to plant the balvana, I must literally tell the government's political balvana before it's voted, those who want to dismember and stick a wedge between our political partners and the majority party, they've got a good sense of where to and where to put that wedge and where the tissue is most sensitive. So, as I said, yesterday's defenders are on the cover, and today, nothing less than neo-fascism in the ranks of at least the ruling party, if not the entire coalition. It's not just a lie. It's not just an insult. It's a vicious attempt to destabilize at the most sensitive moment, a political moment, which is the vote of the new government. And it didn't happen to come out yesterday before the government's vote on the cover, or this morning, because the alleged quote from that interview is over 10 days old. So, there was a good time waiting and then this timed mine blew up. But of course, only naive people will think it's an accident. The intention is completely clear. And therefore, from this place and in this government's programme, I point out, antifascism was the basis of the creation of the Croatian state. It remains a fundamental commitment to the development of the Croatian state, not because it has done so throughout the world, but because this antifascism is a particularly sensitive topic with us and therefore needs to be constantly stressed. There's no Glorifying the Criminals. This time they put me in the heat of events. Tomorrow someone else will. No criminal has ever been named in any of our statements without the first word being a criminal, followed by his name and name. And that remains a fact. And that kid who tried to get between us and the coalition partners is a blunt pin again, he's been gnawing the pin again, he's broken again. Because the Croatian people are mature enough to recognize, mature enough to recognize these evil intentions. This wedge between us and the coalition partners, above all in this case, was clearly applied and targeted towards the Serb national minority, for it is the cuneiform of those who are malicious, the cuneiform of those who are wicked prophets. From all our performances and especially from the performance of our mandate, we're finally ordering them. As so far, the wicked prophets will not create a Croatian destiny. This government promises to remain on those antifascism fluids that our fathers, our mothers, our predecessors fell for. Don't believe those wicked prophets and this government won't let you down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35170	Thank you. We've got corrections. First Mrs. Representative and Vice-President Željka Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35171	Thank you very much. My disagreement with many of the theologians we have heard I will say in my debate, but I want to correct only one incorrect quote, because it seems to me to weigh fifteen to twenty billion depending on what is going to happen in the Croatian budget. In fact, Mr Hebrang said that he was one of the most important priorities and the implementation of health policy. The material we've obtained lists 22 basic goals. Health policy and everything that goes from reform to quality building is in 18 places, and I don't think there's any way we can talk about big and key priorities. On the contrary, it seems to me that health policy falls drastically into the government's programme and takes almost a place at the end of the ballad.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35172	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35173	Mr Hebrang says this government has done absolutely everything possible for Croatian defenders, and that this government, the current government, has returned and dignity to Croatian defenders. The truth is something else. ... Here you go. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] You pushed most of the Croatian defenders on the sidelines of society to depend on the state budget and fear whether they will receive their pensions in time, and the very economic system on which we all depend you have destroyed. And how much you have returned your dignity to Croatian defenders, let's remember those famous Split reefs and speech by Ivo Sanader, where he requested the resignation of the then Racan government for co-operation with the International Court of Justice in The Hague. You came to power and you handed over nine generals to The Hague. What, then, is the true defense of the dignity of Croatian defenders? What you represented on the Split Riviera or what you spent when you sat in your chairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35174	I need to intervene here again, you know. We discussed the government of Ivo Sanader on Friday. And going back to some, don't be surprised when on the other hand they start going back to some government from the past. So I warn both the left and the right in this regard, so that they will not be surprised later, if you also get some answers. So please be within the framework of correcting an incorrect quote, not a Splitian or some other rival. Yeah? No one said anything about a Split coast. I'll tell you now. Yeah? Let's get this over with, and then I have a statement. Mr. Nenad Stazic is also a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35175	Dr. Hebrang says the villains want to put a wedge between us and the coalition partners in the case of anti-fascism. My colleague Hebrang, they don't throw in any villains, you put in a wedge, you personally with your interview in Nin, where you say Max Luburic fought for Croatia in his own way. You did not deny that statement today from the pay phone, where you speak with sympathy about your late father and Max Luburic meeting, where you say that each other are militaryly saluted and where you have understanding of their behaviour. That's what the article says. You haven't denied these facts today, but this isn't your first time as a colleague of Hebrang. So you showed the same sympathies for Shakic a few years ago. There are many of your statements that can be understood as a wedge that you put into the issues of anti-fascism relations between you and your coalition partners.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35176	More Mr. Luke Denon, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35177	Dr. Andrija Hebrang, in his presentation, referred to the accusation that there was a new neo-fascism and that he was waiting today, today it's happening to me, and tomorrow he's waiting for someone else. Incidentally or not, the doctor has turned here. It can't happen to me tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. So I can't be accused of neo-fascism. I'm someone else, but I certainly can't be accused of neo-fascism.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35178	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Just one moment. To gain time, I suggest that when a lunch break is announced, we have already discussed and concluded the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court. So, to prepare for about 1 and a half hours to prepare boxes, ballots and I suggest that Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic, Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol and Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica be in charge. We agree. So about 1 and a half hours we have the homework of this one I said, now we're going to move on with the debate. On behalf of the HSLS and HSU Club, Mr. Representative Ivan Chehok. Here you go. And I announce that at 11:45, it's past the time for a 10-minute application for the agenda point we're now discussing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In fact, we all live together in the final act of a self-provoked political retirement of former Prime Minister, Mr Sanader or at least a short term or a time of political retirement, but the worst thing that could happen to us is that personal reasons and his personal life choices to turn political retirement into a collective of inhibition in which we will all be frozen together, all of us together to retire ourselves, to retire already and the new government that is here, are here before us and who is asking us to support because voting on the government's trust is always one solemn act, no matter how the government becomes, who forms the parliamentary majority that supports and chooses. It is, after all, an appeal act when the government comes for support when it is asked to be accepted. I'm afraid that we will really be inhibited if we are to discuss today what the government should be doing already with the first 3 or 4 representatives of the debate in historical ambushes, waiting for each other in ideological traps. If we go back to anti-fascism and fascism, partisan and Ustasha, if we have to prove that a Hebrang, a father who is a witness anti-fascist, but also a victim of communist terror today has to prove to us what he really means. We all know that antifascism is one of the most positive historical flows. We all know what happened after World War II ended. We all know what kind of terror Croatia's citizens have been exposed to for 50 years to the communist authorities and now to repeat it, to return to ideological ambushes today when it is more than ever clear that the meaning of political in Croatia is not ideological, but is economic. And that today the core of politics in Croatia is no longer ideology, is no longer a return and a call to who is a larger anti-fascist or fascist, but is just a question of who will finally and in what way in the crisis that has affected the whole of Europe turn the economy. And that is why, esteeming "The Economist", esteeming one of the best British magazines I've read and before being quoted by an esteemed colleague Milanovic, the point of seeking answers today in Croatia is not what the "The Economist" will say, but what will the average Croatian economist say, what will the average Croatian entrepreneur say, what will those people who live today live from the economy say, what will workers in industrial production who have fallen, what will all those of whom we live say, want to admit it or not, what will those who create social goods say, so that students can protest, so that public administration or employees, including us who pay from the state budget, can think about raises? It is today, ladies and gentlemen, a key Croatian issue. Today, the purpose of politics in Croatia is, indeed, economic policy and the survival of economic goods, national goods in the Republic of Croatia. And the sooner we figure it out, we won't be able to inhibit each other, but rather, to get this collective facilitation so much and finally start in Croatia to drive each other away. The opposition, of course, in this way to pressure the government, but so do we who form the parliamentary majority in such a way as to say, what I said, without too much indignity or to be a critic, a self-criticist and a prime minister and Mr. Polancec, this is too general document. We need a programme of measures within 15 days based on this because this is a framework document, a document that is more or less identical to that document that we adopted two years ago when it was defended by Ivo Sanader. So if we failed, or we managed only partially and lost the former prime minister, or politically retired him, then that document can't just be enough for this new government. We will have to, with what we accept today, and therefore we no longer have time in Croatia, bring in much more operational, more elaborate, more detailed, and I would say more up-to-date documents that will actually respond to the crisis within 2 weeks. I repeat, it is not something that only happens in Croatia. Take a look at the latest or note or statement sent by our embassy from Germany, which warns through the employers' association to keep an eye on the business with German entrepreneurs because the leading international credit houses and institutions following the country's ratings warn that there is an increasing wave of bankruptcy in Germany. It happens to one of the richest and most compact in itself and I would say the most adaptable economies in Europe. Germany's economy is really self-adjustable, it's always been. The Germans are also such a people who quickly adapt to new circumstances. If this happens to him today, and if our entrepreneurs are warned to observe how contracts are made, because this year, industrial production in Germany is expected to fall by 35%, let the citizens of this country hear it. Then we must all understand together both the opposition and the position that we don't have the time. The greatest luxury this government can afford is to spare it or wait 90 days. It has 9 days, literally not a game of numbers or words, but 9 days to propose anti-recession measures that will deeply affect Croatian society. And in doing so, the prime minister of women, here I will vote for her even though I am not a woman and should not be called upon. I do have a bit of a feminized look though. The prime minister's wife must take a sharp cut deep into Croatian society. And that's why it seems to me that, with this document, with everything it says here and the prominent international magazines and international institutions, we need an operationally elaborated programme and economic recovery projects. And that's what the gentlemen who spoke before me mean little to us that we're going to call on how many entrepreneurial zones we have. Dear ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, look at how busy it is in these areas and how many industries there are, with exception, it is now not a speech of its own benefit or of its own praise, with the exception of several areas in Varazdin County, specifically free zone in Varazdin, something small in Slavonski Brod and Dupolje, which is more the same warehouse zone, Meginca, unfortunately dear ladies and gentlemen, there is no industry for you, there is not a lot of jobs for you. We can do 300 more if we don't have full employment inside, if what happened in my Varazdin, or Trnovec or the Principal, is not going to happen in over 3,000 people in areas. Then they're real economic projects, real economic zones. Therefore, we absolutely need this, and I am asking Mrs. Prime Minister and we are asking Mr. Polancec and the entire government to come here, if it is necessary for us and for the extraordinary session, to adopt this emergency programme of anti-recession measures. We've said a lot when I talk about the effects of the crisis in Europe and that every country is saddening its way out, then I just want to say that we've waited too long. In my opinion, we've waited too long. I suggested six months ago, then to the Prime Minister Sanader that a four-day working week be introduced, that the state pay the 5th day for the export industry, which itself under reduced orders and decreases in production and demand in the European and American markets, should be introduced, because this was introduced by Slovenia three months ago. Therefore, we cannot wait with this if Slovenia did so, if it did so even now and Serbia to just boost industrial production, in order to boost export-oriented production, then Croatia must do so. And we don't have time here anymore. We need to go with direct support to the workplace where the production is done, where the goods for export are produced. If it does so again I repeat Germany, if Angela Merkel gave direct incentives to the workplace in order to survive German industrial production, export production, then Croatia must do so there is no alternative. Unfortunately, we haven't done it until today. Therefore, let us finally tell the citizens of this country that they will not be able to live on just three months of tourism, only from three months of wheat and from agricultural production, that they must live on those production programmes that carry competitive production in the long term, from those that are exportable, from those of which we can earn foreign exchanges and from those that can compete with the European Union. If we still just eat our substance as we've done so far, then there won't be money for students either, then there won't be money for free textbooks, then there won't be money for maternity benefits, then there won't be money for milkers or wheat producers. These are the measures necessary, painful, those that require, if necessary, surgically precise cuts so that we can finally live off that economic substance, not just eat, not just eat, spend, and not create a new good that will help us right on the global market. And finally, I think we should give the government confidence, with a natural note that she doesn't have a time of luxury and comfortable time to wait. This is certainly the moment in which all of us together need especially with adopted anti-recession measures, to think about how we are going to tell citizens what is ahead of us, this is the way in which we can all count together that this slow and long-term recovery from the crisis still needs to be with the first step. Someone was talking about courage today. Courage is said by Aristotle's golden environment between cowardice and fearlessness. Many today will also seek cowardice in Croatia, many will find it, but many today believe that courage is more in fearlessness than in cowardice. I think that we do not have time for overthinking and that sometimes we need to be fearless and courageous in all painful cuts, of course in the honesty strategy to tell citizens what is expected, in order to recover economically, and that is the condition and overall social recovery in Croatia. Well, if you want to, then that's the right condition for joining the European Union. If we will not be strong enough, if we will have such an economy and such banks, which Mr Milanovic or some other institution has well warned about, then Europe will absolutely help us. So we have to be strong to be more important.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35180	Thank you. We have a few corrections. She's the real Mrs. Tanya Verbatt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35181	Thank you very much. Comrade Chehok, you are a true fascination in this House. In your fierce opposition speech, you support the natural government, it truly fascinates me. And in your speech, you had several incorrect allegations. One of them is who would like to correct and if this was not only happening in Croatia, so you're comparing us to Germany and the German economy, if someone has information that Mrs. Merkel called in an extraordinary press conference and resigned here, let me know, obviously I'm not informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35182	Thank you. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35183	Thank you very much. Mr. Chehok's discussions sometimes resemble the theater of absurdity. In his discussions he usually has a cry not good, he needs to do something one way or another and then here are surprises at the end of the debate support this program. I would correct an incorrect quote from his debate, which is that this program is inadequate, that it needs to be worked out, done, etc. No, I think this programme is adequate for the quality of this government that is not good and that has led us to this situation that we have the biggest GDP drop, that we have the most unemployed after ten years and that we have all economic indicators that are significantly negative and much weaker than in comparative countries like Croatia, similar to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35184	Thank you. Mr. Arsen Bauk, correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35185	I'd like to correct two incorrect allegations from my fellow Czecho. So the first incorrect assumption is that this is not only happening in Croatia. Indeed, the prime ministers are leaving but to leave without an explanation only happens in Croatia. In other countries laws are also proposed, but only the opposition proposes anti-recession laws and the government is mostly silent. And if we had a party like HSLS which is the only party that is always in power and constantly playing the opposition, that's what happens only in Croatia, and that's why you found the best environment between cowardice and fearlessness, to be in the government and to keep playing the opposition, and that's why you fell from 22 mandates to 2 as many as you have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35186	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have five more clubs. I suggest that the clubs call the MPs, after they're finished, all the clubs will have a vote on a motion to elect judges of the Constitutional Court. So it could be about 13.30 and here's another note. As soon as the clubs are done, then we'll make this choice. Now it's Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac's turn on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35187	Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister for the composition of the new government, colleagues and colleagues. When a man lacks the knowledge and information needed to make a rational and decision quite safe with full consciousness and a perfectly safe decision is based on instinct. Instinct and the SDSS club, and I also believe many citizens of the Republic of Croatia, says that Croatia, which is currently aimed at instability, needs to stop that direction and that path, and should create assumptions for further progress in the country's instability, in various spheres, in the spheres of finance, in the spheres of state institutions, in the spheres of political credibility and political conviction, and in the sphere of citizens' trust in what we are doing here. For this reason, the SDSS Club and I as authorized to speak on behalf of it can only say that right now for those of us who are gathered today to discuss the new government there is one orientation and many are missing. And it is good that it is now clear that there can only be one orientation and this is a priority called Croatia, a priority called the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, a priority called the state of play in Croatia. So far, these priorities have been elsewhere, have been in history or have been in the past. They were in the story of Europe and of the rapid and rapid accession of the European Union. In one story and another, unfortunately, Croatia was not a priority. The situation in Croatia and the concern of Croatia was not a priority, and this government that we have gathered today to declare confidence if it understands, if it understands that the change of priorities in this sense in which I speak, not declaratively, not based on a political song, but based on real commitment, has a chance to do something to which the mandate obliges it. In that sense, I want to say the following. There is no doubt that the first priority that Croatia needs is to save and stop that form of consumption that further draws towards indifference, towards borrowing, towards asphyxiation and what remains of production but the savings that will be fair, but the savings which will tell people and who will tell the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that it is a fair and rational choice to be saved. And first and foremost where it can be saved is where it is taken past the law, is where it is taken without authority and without the interest of the state, is where corruption lies. If we can cut it off, if we can stop it, then we'll actually create assumptions for the greatest savings. The second is, of course, the decision on how to rationally spend the funds that are being saved, which is what we need to have a policy, which is what we need to have people and I hope that if we don't have them and if we need them to find them, we will look for them. Of course, saving ourselves without those who will create, without those who will create assumptions for development is no guarantee of success because if we continue to do so, then we would get to the point that soon we have nothing to save. For this reason, it seems urgent and necessary to create assumptions for development policy based on those entities, based on those projects that can do this and which, if the state needs to be helped, it takes 100 times to reverse the decision before a decision is made to help them. And otherwise, we're not really going to do what we need to do, which is not getting into a situation that we have nothing to spare soon. And in that sense, and for that reason, it seems to me that this government that we will probably, for some time in this House, vote her trust must be aware that these are her first priorities. And if he realizes that these first priorities require additional procedures, ask for additional changes, ask for additional energy, ask for additional policy, this government headed by you, Mrs. Kosor shouldn't have any fear of that. And neither should we here in the Parliament that we should have the fear of reuniting after seeing where we are with this same purpose and with the same task that brought us here today. Because that priority called Croatia tells us so. This priority, which is called the situation in Croatia today, tells us so. I'd like to say next. When the President of the Republic taught you Mrs. Kosor a mandate based on the signatures you had, including the signatures of a representative of the Independent Democratic Party of Serbia, he drew attention to a few things and I will be free to mention some of these things myself. First, there are values in every country that are in the hearts of people who can be deeper and more fiery in one heart than in another. But there are values that must be common to everyone. And that's the Constitution of our country. The values of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are often disputed by people who think they speak from the heart,... of affection. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And therefore, these fundamental values of the Constitution, which is not disputed here in this House, should be affirmed in this House, should be the first priority of the government that you will lead. Because in both the public and various occasions, there is an impression that key institutions in the country, the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the Parliament, have a different view of what these are fundamental political values in Croatia. And the values are those which are written in the Constitution from preamble to all the provisions of these Constitutions. Therefore, when we talk about antifascism, we talk about the Croatian Constitution. When we talk about respecting anti-fascist values, we talk about the Croatian Constitution and when we speak contrary to the Croatian Constitution. And that should be clear. And it's not a matter of political dispute as some MPs here say it's a matter of validity and respect for the Constitution. For this reason, we should also talk about the dignity of those who have contributed to the fact that this country exists not only since the 1990s but also those who during the 20th century in the anti-fascist struggle, therefore, the People's Liberation Fights have contributed to our being invited to their honorable, honorable contribution. And there should be no doubt in that dispute. Another thing I want to say is that the return of refugees is important in itself, but it is also important as a element of stability in the region. As important as the element of stability in the relationship between the emerging states, it is important as a element that we are not welcomed by a bad past in a near future. But it's also important, I underline once more by myself. Because it is a human dimension, because it is about the need to, as the President of the Republic said at the UNHCR's meeting a while ago, make it clear that the policy of past times that was easily managed by the fact that moving the population is better than whether people live together, better than having multicultural and multiethnic circumstances. For this reason, it is necessary to highlight not only the attachment but also the willingness to deal with the difficult, especially in economic circumstances that are today, extremely difficult conditions, to deal with the assumption that people can return, that their houses can be restored, that the apartments they have lost can be obtained in one way or another. The right minority non-discriminatory policy in society towards all other and different ones that can be found in different minority positions. Tolerance isn't just a thing we can call upon when we want to speak out. She's checking when we need to act. If at a concert, those who listen to music exclaim anti-constitutional messages and if the state radio, even if it was regionally speaking without comment, can hear 150 000 listeners, then it is not a confirmation that we have tolerance to others and different ones, but it is a confirmation that we have tolerance to those who spread intolerance to others and different ones. For this reason, it is our job to stop this trend, and we have it. The same goes for the war crimes trial and for the co-operation with the court in The Hague. As painful as some elements are, but that is, there is no doubt, something that will strengthen the elements of the rule of law with us. Something that will strengthen trust in the state, among states and spread Croatia's reputation in the world. And when we talk about working with our neighbors, we don't have just one neighbor or the situation with those neighbors forever. What seems important to me is that we are creating a policy that will not be limited by the current state of relations either with one or with other neighbours. It seems to me that in our policy we should create assumptions that this cooperation is not only for the sake of the EU and our obligation to work regional cooperation, not only for economic reasons but also for us to strengthen our political security, to strengthen our sense of security, the security of our identity, the security of our political choice and the security of what we believe as citizens of this country. If we skip this cooperation with our neighbors, we believe that we will gain that security elsewhere, for example. in Brussels, then we're wrong. And finally, Madam Commissioner, in the past year and a half, the coalition has suffered because it has not been coordinated, coordinated and we have not all been equal in it. We believe that it is necessary to form a coalition council and that this coalition council be under your direction or under the direction of the guardian of the agreement of your deputy or first assistant. We believe it is necessary for the coalition council to meet before each session of the Parliament, if necessary at least once a month. It is an obligation, but at the same time it is a race that can preserve the stability of this coalition in times that will not be easy. And finally, if what I said, as well as what I didn't say, what others have said, and I share with them the same opinion or what no one has said, and we're going to share together, if what we're doing today makes sense then it makes sense if we're handling these values, these goals, these requirements. If we please, then this coalition can do and this government can do its job, no matter how long. But we are aware that we must do this and do it well, effectively, and then the value and justification of our choice today will be seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35188	Thank you. On behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, Mr Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35189	Respecting what Mr. Pupovac said so far, I would like to add the following sentences. The National Minority Club held talks with the Croatian Government's mandate, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, and the whole process of supporting the new Croatian government this morning, we must say, too quickly and representatives of the national minorities were found to have decisions on resignations, on Mr. Sanader's resignations, as well as on the follow-up of political agreements which, according to our judgment, were held too quickly and generally in the Republic of Croatia, which is quite confusing at the moment. We are found like all Croatian citizens, we are neither different from them nor in understanding the situation nor in relation to it. Well, just for a moment on relationships, although it is said to be at the level of political correctness, but we will cross that level and I would like to say two things about relations with the current prime minister, for one reason only because his party remains in power and therefore the past is very much related to the future. The important thing is that after nearly six years of supporting representatives of national minorities to the Government of the Right Centre, after which many problems remain unresolved and that we have gained a clear impression, especially lately that the main method has been buying time. Only in that context did we understand why time was being bought. The latest events show that. In any case, there hasn't been much done lately. Thus, many problems affecting the use of language, bilingualism, and generally official use of the language of national minorities remain unresolved and the situation has even deteriorated somewhere, not only in Daruvar but also in Istria. The Serb return process took place slowly, rebuilding late. There were strong communication problems with individual ministries, with a particular no. In particular, nothing has been done to resolve the first point of the agreement with former Prime Minister Sanader, the one concerning positive discrimination in the vote, i.e. what is said in a Colloquial way, the additional right to vote. Time's running out, we only have six months to solve this problem. And please, please, Mr. Shakespeare, spare us round tables, because we heard those suggestions first from you. Spare us the thoughts of so-called. professional experts that you will bring us to solve this problem, as the Constitution has already solved it. The Constitution clearly states that the additional right to vote is the right of national minorities, and we only have to agree politically or not. We will suggest a solution, and it is up to you to accept it or not, that is to suggest your solution. Next thing you know, it's all about consequences. National minorities are aware of the complexity of the situation. Better solutions to the catastrophic situation in Croatia, which will unfortunately mark our everyday life for a long time. Such a situation is even more difficult for members of national minorities than for other citizens, as minority communities are weaker, more vulnerable, less, more vulnerabilities, as said by the majority, and under exceptional conditions, the identity of minorities will be more vulnerable. So don't think we're gonna give up any of our basic demands. Do not think that we will endanger our Italian, Serbian, Czech, Slovak, Hungarian or any other identity for the complexity of the situation. By taking over our agreements that we will sign today with Mrs. Prime Minister before the vote you will assume the obligations we know will not be easy. Even obligations with national minorities won't be easy. And you'll be taking over certain deadlines. Sign it, but don't sign it if you're not sure you'll have support in your party, because we're not gonna tolerate buying time anymore. If you will sign, however, we will give you our support. Support with the agenda, what the soldiers would say with the march. In other words, our support will exist but will be able to be revised at any moment, because there will be deadlines. So she'll be paroled. And if we truly trust your intentions, in your positive relationship with all who are different, so also to national minorities and to human rights. That's what we've witnessed in recent years. We also trust you because you're a woman in the most beautiful but also in the most concrete sense, because women are more reliable and more thorough than most men. That's what I'm telling you because that's what I mean. Nevertheless, you will have critics in us and, if you have to, it is up to you and your associates to keep that in mind and keep that in mind. Your term of office, both your government and all other citizens of Croatia, Mrs. Kosor, we want a good destiny or, as the Americans would say, may God help you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35190	Thank you. Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic, on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35191	Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister with the future government or candidates and candidates for the future government. As the white government which is proposed and which will, by all accounts, be confirmed, or elected in this House, has a problem with legitimacy. He has a problem with legitimacy because of what he succeeds and is, in fact, the government that has already led Croatia by now minus the person who has been highlighted throughout the election campaign and throughout the concept of both this government and this coalition as a leading person and as a person who guarantees the whole thing and will be prime minister. If you don't think so, then of course you don't stand out and build a whole campaign like HDZ did on one person. As you can see, even coalition partners don't think that this government has that kind of legitimacy or that kind of legitimacy that the government had when they entered and signed a coalition with Prime Minister Sanader. Now they're looking for special agreements, special guarantees, and it's natural. It's not a mistake or a failure by this government that is proposed. It is simply a fact that led to the departure of the prime minister who received votes without any explanation or escape from the battlefield. They've left you, in fact, both as Prime Minister's vice president and as his current government, and also as his party that he's led so far with a hot potato in his hands and a vague perspective. And it's all of course in the eyes of the public, and even in all the indicators you can read. So polling has led to a deterioration of legitimacy. Technically speaking, of course, legitimacy is not citizens' opinion, it's the number of hands in the Parliament. Therefore, you have legitimacy while you have 77 hands in the Parliament. But of course it's not the only legitimacy. The legitimacy therefore recognises the right of a group to rule or lead the country comes from the general public's opinions and attitudes. And in this combination, this combination has weak support, that is, under half the support as seen and therefore this government comes with a serious problem in place. Here is a program that is a more or less shortened version of the old program. A little Europe, a little economy, a little environment, a little education, a little defense. Mostly more or less the same only less than what the last government had. However, this is not a government that comes to its place because it wins the elections, but comes to its place because the government has fallen. And since the government passed, look at yourself in the Constitution and you'll see, since the government passed, then this is the government that is coming, and it fell because the prime minister has escaped. So she fell and that's why the government comes in during a crisis period. And a government in a crisis period cannot have the same program as any other government at any other time. A little bit of this, a little bit of that and make it all a mosaic. The government in a crisis period must first have a clear picture of the key points of the crisis, which is the problem. Croatia has two strategic goals or two strategic projects and two fundamental problems. One is economic growth which is currently an economic downturn and the other is the European Union. Inside economic growth, I'd say two sub-problems are crucial. One is corruption, which is very likely to bring down the former government. So one is corruption and another is agriculture. These are two sub-problems that need special attention at this time. Whether the government has appeared either as prime minister or anyone in this debate with the idea of determining what our key points are. The economy is in decline, the corruption of the government, the European Union is in a blockade and we are in a situation where for strategic problems on our strategic goals a new government is coming to the Parliament and is not focusing on the specific key problems we have and we need to start solving today, but it has a general programme as if there is an instantaneous election, so we're going to do a little bit about everything. So you come in a crisis, a state of political crisis, a huge drop in trust in institutions. Let me remind you, in Croatia 11% unlike, say, Scandinavia, 65% trust in institutions. So, huge mistrust in institutions, political crisis and economic crisis. How is this new old government that just doesn't have Sanader to deal with? The fact that there's no Sanader in this new old government might be bad, and maybe it's good. It is obvious that the HDZ considers all the views and those who say it is good and that it will in no way interfere with it, so it is good that there is no Sanader in the new government. I have to say that we're a little skeptical of that, we've never thought it was good before, and even in this situation, we think that at least there's a basis for concern. What's the program? What's the rebalance situation? Did we hear anything about that? Obviously, the budget rebalancing is ahead of us, which is what the prime minister announced. For 1 billion? For 15 billion? Where? At what points? The budget rebalance reflects the programme. The budget rebalance reflects the project which is important, which is irrelevant, what will be worked on. That's what a man needs to say in the Parliament. Guys, this will be our priorities, so give us support as government. Is the IMF coming? Will the IMF be here in the fall? He won't? What does that mean? Is it good to finally have someone who knows how to do something here? The casino capitalism that has been going on here for years has obviously led to a situation where, instead of economic growth, we have a decline and all other countries that are economically better than us and have a gross social product per capita far greater than we are, and besides that, we shouldn't even be able to make an argument about what's wrong with others, so why shouldn't we be too. It depends on the possibilities, the abilities. How is it that many are much better and that we should be much better? We were supposed to be the leader in this region and we have potential and this country and its people have the potential to be the leader in this region, not to be the object of ridicule, at which point we are brought by this HDZ move. It is said here that the fight against corruption will continue. In what way? How will the fight against corruption continue when the affair of trucks is covered up, when former Minister Roncevic sits here, claiming to be responsible for nothing, while former police director Faber is leaving because of the "Kamioni" affair, and perhaps former Prime Minister Sanader has left because of the "Kamioni" affair, and we will continue the fight against corruption with the OIB? We're gonna blow off a combination of politics corruption and I don't know which circles of the OIB? I'm counting on my head? That's not possible. Corruption is our key problem. We've had OIB so far, we've had a variety of numbers so far. It's not a problem in number. The problem is that corruption needs to be cleaned from the head and it's Mrs. Kosor's only chance. Do you have the ability and the ability to do that? Will that allow you? I honestly doubt it. But that's your basic job. The government is being led by a party that suffered a huge political blow. The prime minister left in the middle of a mandate without an explanation and a greeting, the party's president left them, hence the party that suffered such a political blow in the crisis situation taking on without a clear idea of what to do, leading the state. A party that has problems with antifascism and the glory of Max Luburic as a fighter for Croatia through the mouth of the presidential candidate, read, dear colleagues and colleagues,... where your presidential candidate gave the interview, so you'll see. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I see you're not reading maybe... But that's why in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You write because your presidential candidate gave you an interview there, and that's where it says it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the problem. We cannot deal with these problems, with these mortgages to solve what we have to solve, which is a blockade in key points of Europe, a key point of the economy that will not go forward with this level and this tolerance towards corruption. In Parliament, Mrs. Kosor, you have a small majority for now. They put hot potatoes in your hands and you have a small majority, not because of your party, because with their party, of course they would not have a majority, but because of the coalition partners. And take care of that. They put hot potatoes in your hands, created the atmosphere that lies are true, thieving honesty, leaving triumph, running away victory, crisis success. Those who have read George Orwell will surely recognize and know how it continues. This incurring corrections to an incorrect quote, shouting, humming, howling here is a problem we should be holding back today because Mrs. Kosor deserves at least that kind of dignity and respect when she represents her government that with various trivialities you don't engage here. You're not my option, but I think Mrs. Kosor deserves a little more respect in your behavior than she shows. HNS won't support this government because she doesn't think she's given a real chance and thinks she's short-lived. I wish you Mrs. Kosor success because everything that is bad for those and what is the failure of those who, at least for a short time, lead the government is bad for this country. Therefore, I want you to be successful at the time in which you run the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35192	We have 14 corrections of incorrect allegations. For your guidance in time, I'll interrupt everyone as soon as the light turns red. I'm sorry I'm not one of those 14, but I'm gonna have a chance. First Mr. Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35193	Thank you, Mr. President. It is incorrect that this government has a problem with legitimacy, i.e. it has no electoral legitimacy. Namely, this government wanted you to or did not have an electoral legitimacy achieved in the elections at the end of 2007. Of the legitimately elected MPs in this Croatian Parliament, this is not the first case that a change of government takes place in office, so the same scenario happened at a time when you were acting in power and then you did not talk about electoral legitimacy. The second thing, a party that has 1 or 2% of Croatian voters' support tells us about legitimacy. I think you have a problem with your own legitimacy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35194	Thank you. It's blushing. Ms. Nevenka Marinović, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35195	Here I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Pusic that this government has no legitimacy. That's not true. It is true that, in terms of the prime minister's resignation, or the prime minister's resignation, or the government's resignation, which is not a vote of confidence, you obviously have a problem with the disincentives of Croatian counterpart Pusic's constitution. It is practically impossible to ask for early elections, as the executive power depends on Parliament's trust, because voters are in elections, so they do not elect the prime minister or the government, but rather elect parliamentary deputies. And your boasting and demeaning of all who do something is the only thing you offer voters, and voters know it, and that's why they give you that trust.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35196	Thank you, Mrs. Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35197	Yes, it is. I wanted to correct more incorrect allegations. But one was about the program. So Mrs Pusic said that a special programme is needed in times of crisis and that this programme is not a crisis. Even this basic programme that we received from the Government is the first place we have an economy, and secondly the European Union. And today's presentation by Mrs Kosor has particularly highlighted, Mrs Kosor's economy and entrepreneurship, and that she will fight with all available means to revive the economy, and has also mentioned the European Union and problems with Slovenia as a key problem. As far as legitimacy is concerned, Mrs Pusic also said it stems from public opinion and not from election results, which is completely incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35198	Thank you. Mr. Krunoslav Markovnović. Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35199	As for the legitimacy, I don't think there's too much to talk about, because here's not only Mr Ivo Sanader won the election, but also Mrs Jadranka Kosor, not to list Mr Polancec, Shuker, Jandroković, Vukelić, etc. So those of us who are here, we've all won the election. Furthermore, it is difficult to have this legitimacy for the election of foreigners who are actually HNS which is a strange combination between the extreme left and the crime. But there's no such thing as a truck, and that's your problem. But that's why there's an affair called Coning, a former minister that's being covered up by that third man, jumbo posters, which is what I meant by Pusic-Cacic-Mesic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35200	Thank you. Mr. Mario Zubovic. Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35201	This is when we talk about the legitimacy of Mrs Pusic, it is not true that Mrs Kosor and this government do not have legitimacy, because you should know that Mrs Jadranka Kosor has received a mandate from the president of the state, and therefore has legitimacy. When you speak here and you want to throw away again as well as ubiquis at HDZ and the HDZ government at the ministers, this government and the previous government are fighting corruption and will continue to fight corruption and that is what Mrs. Kosor said as well. Your goal is to declare this government incompetent. I claim they're capable. Unfortunately, in Parliament, we have that only losers and incompetents can be led by the board you run. If you were a successful politician, you'd never lead that committee. Only those who have failed in the elections and in the government can lead this committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35202	Thank you. Don't object to these qualifications, because you just listened to the whole 15 minutes before, other equally difficult qualifications. Please, I warn you, when you've been listening to the difficult qualifications and insults that have been brought here, you can listen to these kinds of things. ... It's not me talking about it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You know what I'm talking about. Boro Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35203	Thank you, Mr. President. So here are many of the insults and inaccuracies brought here, I forgive the insults, but I won't forget, and I'll cite inaccuracy. The government didn't fall. The prime minister resigned. And in the Constitution, you are uninformed. If you think that after the prime minister's resignation even if the parliamentary majority as it is today wants to confirm a new person, namely the new elections do not have to be called as you would like. So, our former Prime Minister Sanader was elected on the parliament list as well as any other MP and in the procedure, after receiving the parliamentary majority, he became himself. Therefore, the parliamentary majority confirmed it. The same thing will happen with the new term of office, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, which is basically some of the basic conditions that you would have to know in order to talk about it all. Therefore, I conclude. The prime minister's resignation, and therefore the whole government, is the same as the one that arises after the parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35204	Thank you. Vladimir Shakespeare vice president, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35205	It is incorrect that Mrs Vesna Pusic, the government has no legitimacy. The original legitimacy of every government and this one draws from Parliament. In this House, this government is supported by 83 MPs. Therefore, it has full original legitimacy, and that is the alphabet of democracy. Secondly, it is an incorrect assumption that the government has fallen, that the prime minister has escaped. The prime minister resigned, the government resigned in line with the constitution, which is also one of the fundamental postulates of constitutional law, which would make counterparts Pusic fall to the first round if they showed up with such claims that the government had no legitimacy and that the government had fallen. Unfortunately, you wouldn't have gone to the Colloquium, you wouldn't have come to the constitutional law exam.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35206	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35207	Dear representative Vesna Pusic spoke about HDZ being against anti-fascism. Very wrong. And I'm correcting that assumption because the truth is completely different. Mrs Pusic, every time you speak like this, then you largely insult all Croatian volunteers or most Croatian volunteers who came out of HDZ and stood before Serbian fascist tanks and defended this country. I don't know any anti-fascist bigger than me. We are the party that has the most live anti-fascists in Europe today and we are proud of it. You've also talked about the general public's opinion and you're looking for new elections, you're calling for polls. Our Constitution knows the elections or the Electoral Law. Your party received 5 seats in the election, my party received 66 seats. Of those five, one went independent and one forgot to come to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35208	Thank you. Mrs. Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35209	Thank you very much. I'd like to correct the inaccuracies of a colleague who said this government was decapitated. My colleague, if the prime minister has resigned, then this government is resigning, then it is not decapitated and you know for yourself that by the Constitution you have a series of events, so Mrs Kosor has been signed by most of our representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and has also received from Mr. President Mesic in the shortest possible time, within the shortest time possible mandate to draw up this government that I believe will today be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35210	Thank you. Mr. Representative Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35211	I am correcting an incorrectly offensive, humiliating and anti-constitutional quote by my distinguished colleague Pusic. In this seat is the elected parliamentary representative, not the corrupting colleague, Pusic. I refer you to Article 28 of our Constitution "Everyone is innocent and no one can find him guilty of a criminal offence until a judicial verdict finds him guilty.". Mrs. Pusic, you're not and you won't be my judge. There's no "cams" affair, there's just a desire to have it scattered, there's a desire for this object to be politicized in which you're very successful.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35212	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35213	Thank you, Mr. President. I would also like to join my colleague Vukic on that part of the correction relating to the stigmatisation of HDZ, I would say Croatia when it comes to antifascism and corruption. Indeed, I agree with my colleague Vukic, so the Croats have indeed shown in the Homeland War that they have taken up antifascism and that they support it because antifascism is a commitment to all victims, regardless of which Fascism and Communism, and the one who forgot to get to work would have arrived better had he not arrived in the government then, so they would not have dragged themselves into such an affair in connection with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35214	Thank you. Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35215	You incorrectly led colleagues Pusic to say that the government had fallen. One of the main reasons you listed the situation in agriculture. That's not true. Agriculture has experienced its affirmation within the framework of this government. Let's say 33% increase in budget, 6 hundred stands of newly opened, milk production improved. I'm afraid fellow Members don't know much about agriculture and the village except before the election come to offer this or that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35216	Thank you. Ms. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35217	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Pusic said that this government does not have a specific programme in the programme's proposal. There is. Mrs Pusic, you have received benches, preserving economic stability, a prerequisite for EU entry, an international security position, additional measures to develop particularly vulnerable areas. Only some of them I have read, but it is really only true that Mrs Pusic said that we are not the same option, because if we were, Croatia probably wouldn't be.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35218	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35219	I would like to correct Mrs Pusic's incorrect allegations that our female prime minister has a small majority to put together the government. It is neither a small nor a large majority but a democratic majority, so in accordance with the democratic standards that I hope we will not revise. And also, 83 MPs if we're already talking about size and bid it much more than 77 needed. Therefore, our Prime Minister has very good support, the majority and credibility to put together this government and implement the programme she presented here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35220	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic on behalf of the HDSSB club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35221	Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister and members of the Government, ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. If these before me spokesmen had 14 corrections of incorrect allegations, then there would seem to be a lot more after my speech. I don't know about this, technique people. So, time has moved away, clearly there is information that as both the representatives and the representatives of the HDZ themselves say there is a parliamentary majority that will vote to say this to shorten the name and simplify the citizens of the Deputy Government compared to who it was, but I didn't mean to start with it but to say that one event does not make history. One event and what follows it and what will be after it and what will be the assessment and what will be the public's history. What is the history that is always connected to the future of Croatia today. I listened with caution even though they said the president said it was not the turn to look back at the Prime Minister, the former Prime Minister, but I listened to a careful speech that was on Croatian public television. What I specifically remembered and what is signifying and perhaps I will convince is said that by the act of resignation he wanted to protect the interests of Croatia and put them in front of personal interests if I understood correctly. And not only that, it's an act of strengthening democracy. How do you interpret those words? Has anyone gone into those words, into that sentence? So, if we go back before the resignation act, can we ask ourselves in reverse, that before that personal interests were prior to Croatia's interest and by the act of resignation Croatia's interests come first? Or before the act of resignation, there was no strengthening of democracy, by the act of resignation of stronger democracy. Is that how we interpret it? Furthermore, here I listened very carefully to the Prime Minister and I believe the future Prime Minister, but I got on the bench this morning a programme of the Government of Croatia for the term of office in 2009/2011. So this morning before the very session of the Parliament that has exactly 106 pages, 105, 106 pages. It is difficult in half an hour, an hour or two to study 105 pages of the Government of Croatia programme and I have the programme from 2007 to 2011 offered by former Prime Minister Sanader. So what we should actually talk about today because this is a technical matter, actually a done thing, I'm not going to talk about, like my speakers, the predecessors were talking about constitutionality, legality, it's all said already in these discussions, in correcting incorrect allegations. In the knowledge that there is a majority who will vote on Mrs. Prime Minister but what is important in this programme is what should be important for Croatia's future and that, in particular, is closer in a year, two days, therefore, at this very time that is indicated, 2009, 2011 is very important. The other day we were here, and about what I said, discussing the implementation of the Island Law, I heard from one of our fellow MPs earlier that it would be good to dig a channel of Drava, Sava between Pitomaca and Jasenovac, and then Slavonia would become an island. You see on page five, just a second, so in chapter four, so you would say, so on page 20, there is an explanation of regional development policy and fiscal decentralisation. We know that the regional development strategy brings some changes, Madam Prime Minister, therefore, in relations and the balance of development, regions in Croatia. However, we have been waiting for the regional development strategy for as long as I know and the materials of the past three years. I hope you'll hurry to say, update the regional development strategy, because indeed Slavonia can't wait any longer. Decentralisation is, above all, a fiscal part, which is therefore closely linked to regional development policy and therefore to the fiscal capacity of individual regions. They are now called counties, says regional self-government, in fact, are counties. It will also result in deconcentration of the power and demotropolisation. This is what Slavonia expects of you and here you are from Slavonia of origin, so we hope that in that sense you will also do something for Slavonia. What is particularly indicated in speeches and the mandates themselves and in speeches of others is savings, savings in all fields. However, I am afraid and I am convinced and in the public is a very widespread opinion, you can make corrections to the incorrect assumption, but I am daily with my citizens, offended by the opinion that the octopus of corruption and crime in Croatia is terribly widespread, that it extends into high circles. That the open valves, the leaks of corruption and crime, the mafia and all the other negative phenomena that are affecting our society, this country that we created, were created in blood and Slavonia really made a huge contribution to the creation of the Croatian state. When you look at, either one, it was called those affairs, as Roncevic said, is not an affair but an attempt at an affair, however, you can be on these attempts, but it is clearly and loudly spoken, whispered or written by Brodosplit. Sunny Thank you, Liburnius, INA, Railway of Croatian, so also state-owned enterprises, Kapeningrad, disappearance in the privatisation of many companies such as. Slavonski brodnat Jasinje, a veterinary station in Slavonski brod, therefore, is a tycunisation that was then the source of further expansion and growth of octopus tentacles that affected the entire Croatian society. That's the problem, I'd like Mrs. Prime Minister or future Prime Minister, if you were able to deal with this problem. But since this is, in some sense, the Deputy Government and there is a shadow behind this government, I'd like to be wrong, I'd like to apologize to you, but I'm afraid it's hard to succeed, to deal with such a difficult time of trouble, corruption and crime that actually robbed Croatia's state, which led to a 22 billion debt during Mr. Sanader's government, 22 billion euros, we owe 40 billion euros in total. The Croatian state owes 40 billion euros. We used to say that that Yugoslavia that was, was, uh, 25 million in debt to the collapse, 25 billion dollars, so we said it was over-indebted, that Yugoslavia fell apart anyway. And you see, with 4.5 million people, we owe over 40 billion euros. A really heavy burden, a really heavy burden to solve such a problem. And not only that, that, that he didn't care about the tail or that he didn't care about the order, that he didn't try it, he might have tried it, but he didn't manage at all to fight corruption, crime, but the government spent a good part of the money, one part of it, and to prosecute the unthinkers. They say the mounted process of Branimir Glavas cost over 150 million kuna. Slavonia could use one of those 150 million kunas that were spent on it, and now they say the President of the Parliament will be abroad the other day. I'm afraid those who led to this situation should stay here, but not some other places. They don't have to go abroad, but not other places, a little shade. There's a lot of places out there that I'd like to say, what someone called an affair or an attempt at an affair. I don't rule out Victor Lenac and the River Bank and everyone else who shook this country backwards, here's how we created freedom, how we created our independent Croatia. Unfortunately, I would like to say wrong and be wrong, but what some people want here and as some legal or constitutional norm are prescribing extraordinary elections, I would like not to come to them since you have a majority here in the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, but the times that follow us, your successes or failures, I'm afraid they'll decide that it might happen after all, they want us sitting here, whether we want it or not in some near or distant future that's measured for months, so for months. I've spent as much time as I could on this program of yours of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I've studied how much I've arrived, how much time I've been allowed. And you see, I found again as well as when we discussed, when Prime Minister Sanader was elected, here is this one only to say the item in this programme, so in the basic objectives in which it is said amongst the main, so these fundamental objectives is the systematic implementation and development of Adriatic policy with the aim of creating synergy of all factors etc. Once we put into these fundamental goals systematic implementation and development, not to say, I don't have to say Slavonic because what Slavons say to someone, you can say to the Pannonian or Eastern Croatian policies, because there's food, there's water, there's energy and you know it well. Both oil and gas and food and water, the strategic resources of every country in the world, and I guess Croatia. But here's the thing, I don't find such a conclusion in your government's core objectives. Please make sure that something changes in that sense, and in half a year I hope that we will see each other at the current watches and at the sessions of this House of Highs, so that in this direction we can also ask you whether what I have proposed and what I propose in good faith and in good faith is being carried out. Since the way we said to support Mr. Prime Minister's resignation because of everything I've been saying and since this is actually one replacement government, one would say more cosmetic change, we won't, we won't support unfortunately or...... Thank you very much. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35222	Thank you, thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Mr. Krunoslav Markovović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35223	Here is my colleague Boro, among other things I would disagree with, claims that the Croatian government has done nothing in the fight against corruption, which is absolutely incorrect. Well, there is, so keep track, there's a whole series of cute code names like "Gruntovec", "Maestro" and so on. where it's done a lot. What you expect, like our political rivals, is that some big fish will come. If there were big fish, they'd be in the net, that's for sure. But interestingly, at least they've made it against corruption the ones who talk about it the most. Be assured.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35224	Thank you. And the last club. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative and Vice President Josip Friscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35225	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Prime Minister, candidates and candidates of the new government. I would like first of all to welcome you in front of the Croatian Peasants' Party club and to express our views and our visions and our reflections on what has been said in part in an announcement or opening address about what has been happening in recent days, but especially about what we expect will happen from today or tomorrow. I'm glad that just in the introduction, in conversion, the most space, most words and data, but very real was said about the economy, about what needs to be done and how this government wants to contribute to solving problems. Because the issue of social product declines, the issue of solving the crisis is not a question that we in this House or that can solve any government. We just have to solve this together. It's being solved by a family, by a rope, by a wider community. It is the government that must be determined to give guidance and warn this can be done, and this should not be done because in the opposite process it will take longer. And when we observe whether our citizens understood and accepted it that way, we can say that they understood and accepted it. Because in the structure of the social product falls the biggest contribution to saying that the plan gives the drop in consumption. But on the other hand, there is no drop in savings, which means the citizens realized they shouldn't get out of the bank's last kuna, looking for credit on credit and still competing in consumption. I am aware, and we are aware that this creates a limit to those who create good, who produce good. But it's safe when we even these two relationships that it's a clear way out of the crisis. What is also mentioned in the address of what has been announced that a very fast part of it will begin to happen as of today, what we expect in this House and as coalition partners is to create a relationship to spend what is created. It is certain that the most talk will be about budget rebalancing, but I also want to express the position of the Croatian Peasant Party club that it should not be afraid that for a part of what is justified, what studies prove to be worth it to be in charge, because it will all come back to us then. It is important whether these duties create a new value. I know the budget will be the most debated on these relationships and relations. What was also mentioned not once in front of this House, but in public too many times, was the issue of reform in the context of our accession to the European Union. I am pleased to have said here, and knowing the people who are proposed in this government, I am convinced that the reforms will continue decisively, because they need us. They need us not to meet the conditions that one day someone will estimate that we have fulfilled them in order to extend. They need us to establish new relationships between the functioning, new relationships of life and the evaluation of all those who contribute to this country's creation of a new value. And that is why I am convinced that the government, under the leadership of Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, will continue this decisively. In our debates, even in what is said here today, the address goes according to the confirmation of the objectives that were spoken here in the formation of the Government after the establishment of this Parliament. And I think it's too little said, and I know that's what this is about and that's what we need to talk about, and that's the rest of the world. Because it is not only the European Union that needs to build relations with questions about what I would say about life and death. Because some people want to create, and in part of the citizens, it's even created. Okay. We have security because we're part of the NATO alliance. And now we need to enter the Union, and then the Union will feed us, and we won't have to work. We'll have to work, we'll need to create to make better living. But we need to turn ourselves into the rest of the world. Because it's only been a few days since some of the speeches in Croatia may have been the most powerful man in the world, but it must have been among the three most powerful ones when we talked both in government and in Parliament, then we were just offered opportunities for new markets, for new investments, and I think that's what needs to be turned around, that's what to talk about because the time to return capital, the capital hasn't disappeared. He's only gone to some other places. They will quickly return through energy projects, quickly return through infrastructure and quickly return through environmental protection. We must prepare such programs. I know the government has them and we have to turn to them. It's been emphasized, but I'd like to underline it in particular, because it's also a program. It is also the attitude of the Croatian Peasant Party. It is also one of the reasons for entering the coalition, it is decentralisation of Croatia. Creating conditions of even development of all its space and areas. Behind us are local and regional elections, elections where local and regional officials are directly elected, where certain programmes have received their support and surely this government has a chance to use this power, this enthusiasm of these choices to find partners and to recognize those whose programmes were realistic, those who are willing to participate in their realisation. Because the new value, new investments, new jobs are created in municipalities, cities, counties. And this relationship, this synergy will be extremely important and important and I am convinced that the government will know and recognize and encourage. Because I agree with those who said it wasn't just enough to determine the spatial plans of the zone, but it was a prerequisite. It is now necessary to continue investing in infrastructure, to enable them to really be what they need to be, and I know that there are programmes and interests that exist in certain areas through a strong investment of capital because we are not the country where they stopped or stopped the interest of capital investments. And these days when it was most debated today's session when it will be, I talked to entrepreneurs outside Croatia who are willing to invest hundreds of millions of euros in Croatia. We must all contribute together, and the government is primarily invited to create conditions as quickly as possible so that they can invest in us. There have been talks about it, but we, too, want to stress this in particular, because there are those who think that with some kind of swimming course, maybe in a hurry, some part of the economy would create more favourable conditions, but a strong shift for most citizens would mean bankruptcy and certainly that we have something to talk about with the banking sector, negotiate. We can't order them because they have their own bosses, but we have something to talk about and the amount of interest and that it starts to be credited without foreign exchange clauses and that, and in what conditions, interest on these loans will be changed. I want to underline one more thing, and I think we're going to have to talk about it, Minister Schuker has pointed out several times already, and it's a liquidity issue. It is certain that the Government must work and insist on it through its engagements, through the companies it manages as its owner, and also demand that those who are in debt to the State, who must pay taxes when they collect their claims to settle and make a commitment to those to whom they are due. I see it's starting to shine. I just want to say two more sentences. One is related to the term of office, for the first time it is a woman, and many talk differently about it, and I can testify on the basis of the contacts we have had with the minister and vice president of the government so far that she is both determined and responsible and real and socially sensitive, and in the end, many have not once resented it, but she has always wanted to see and hear and know how this little man lives to call him that with my problems. And what we're talking about, whether here as a public representative, does this Parliament have legitimacy because as citizens, they think otherwise. On Friday when it was the hottest, I was an hour and a half in contact with the show on Rijeka TV, and you know that the opinion is that it's a space where most of the electorate's bodies think or have left orientation, the deliberately respected journalist Vuksic said now I'm going to ask a hot question about what you think of Sanader? 60% said if it wasn't the prime minister, make it the president of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35226	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we've completed our discussion in clubs. I now give my word to the Prime Minister for the composition of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I want to thank you, on behalf of those of us who are standing before you and once again asking for confidence in the composition of the government, for the debate that we believe is taking place in the democratic atmosphere and I want to and I think I am obliged to answer several questions that have been raised in the debate on behalf of the clubs in the Croatian Parliament. I'm going to start with the rebalancing, so very specific, from the rebalancing that I didn't talk about much, of course, but I'm going to say that we're preparing the rebalancing intensively. Of course, until I get your trust or speak publicly, I don't think it would be logical or polite, because you can't go three steps forward if you don't have permission and permission. So, if we get your trust, I'm confident we will, we'll present two to three options of possible rebalancing on these occasions immediately. First of course I'm talking, here's the whole diagram. First in the presidency of the Croatian Democratic Community, immediately next to our coalition partners, consider all possibilities, the moment we are in. What I want very, very much to point out here is that all coalition partners, all of us who are members and members of the government, are deeply aware of the moment in which Croatia is located. So, economic crisis, recession. We're all ready to give up, I think it's important and let's discuss rebalancing first within our family. After that, we will certainly hold a session of the Economic Council but also of the Economic Social Council with a rebalancing session of the Government and then send it to you. So I've already announced that if we get a mandate, if we get support, we'll also have to look for an extraordinary government meeting if we have to. I don't think that's gonna be a problem, but if we need more time to consult, I want first of all to point out our social partners. But what I think I can say at this point, even though I'm still here in the position of mandate, means the one that requires trust is that this is going to be a rebalance in which, and the next steps we're going to take in which everything is on the table. So nothing is untouchable. What we will certainly come from, what will be my request if I get trust and if I am Prime Minister is to start first of course from the users of the state budget, so the ministries, offices, agencies, etc. State firms and to cut down to the minimum what is called a national team in each form, we will survive and if we can serve guests only water, so if we can serve only water from or without coffee machines, I will ask for a review of all cards, I will ask that the cards have only ministers, state secretaries, only for travel to the country and abroad, only for that. Of course extend to all the ones I've been talking about, so who are the users of the state budget and owned by the state. I repeat, nothing will be untouchable. We will question everything. And what I want to announce immediately after this rebalancing we're about to bring in these days is probably going to follow another one to the end of the dominatrix. On what form we will propose this rebalancing, it will depend on the further situation, on tourism, on the results of tourism and on other economic developments. Therefore, we are deeply aware that the situation is extremely serious. We're not afraid of anything. I can talk about myself absolutely. Because I think I and my colleagues and colleagues have proven social sensitivity. But if there is a need to go two steps further, then we will certainly take care of those who are most sensitive, of the most sensitive in the Republic of Croatia. I also announce that, with constant monitoring and implementation of the anti-recession measures adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we will need to bring new ones. The establishment of a coalition council has been announced here. So it will be a body that will monitor the awake, daily implementation of the programme, as well as all other needs. It won't be a parallel government, so there won't be calculations and speculation about it. And about the fight against corruption, I also want to say a few more words. So the government you're going to trust today, and I believe you will, because we have more than a stable majority in view of the signatures I gave President Mesic, but also the fact that some of them were unable to sign because they were on their way. So I really expect one stable majority. So, in the fight against corruption, we will be without mercy, without giving up zero tolerance, as we have announced. We will not be interested in anyone, if they show up and if all the bodies of the state dealing with these problems show that someone is in any way involved in that network, there will be no mercy. We don't know big or small fish. All the fish are good for the boat. Because we believe that corruption is one of the greatest threats to democratic society, to everyone, even to our own, and that when it comes to human rights, corruption in the worst way endangers fundamental human rights, which are also the greatest value of the Croatian Constitution, because it makes man insecure, because it makes him susceptible and because in man it causes fear. Therefore, be assured that without mercy against corruption we will continue to fight. There's been a lot of talk here about antifascism, and I think it's good to talk about it. We, in that sense, have improved and improved our program ahead of you. I want to say very clearly, since Mrs Pusic said that the party, referring to a party whose member I am, and now the president, has problems with antifascism. I want to throw it away most vigorously. That's not true. That's a lie. Because no other government, other than the Government under the leadership of the Croatian Democratic Community and Dr Ivo Sanader, had the strength to tear down monuments to Francetics, Buddhas, etc. The government remember, Eve Sanader, the government led by HDZ had the strength to do so. And I don't think there's any strength to do that, or any courage to do that. It's a notorious fact. Antifascism is in the roots of free Croatia. And finally around those who continue to talk about extraordinary choices. At this point, I think it would be primarily irresponsible, unserious, except unnecessary because we have a majority. But I also warn of the fact that any conduct of elections at this time would completely block and paralyze Croatia in efforts to get out of the crisis, in the fight against recession, the state would stand for at least 6 months. It doesn't matter how much it would cost without me saying about all our efforts to unblock the negotiations, to end the negotiations. It would absolutely all stop, freeze, and there would be no movement. So I think it's a notorious fact that we have a lot, we have both strength, and courage, and will, and knowledge and perseverance, we just don't have time to lose. There, and in the end, it was said that I had this fact that I had been given a mandate to put the government together, I had got a hot potato in my hand. If it's hot, I'll know it first of all cool off, peel off. And there's a woman's style to make a good potato salad out of it. Thank you very much. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35228	Thank you. And the inevitable correction of the inaccuracy, Mr. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35229	There is no HDZ problem with antifascism, but antifascism in Croatia has been a problem with HDZ for 20 years. And until the Lords of the Holy Principles return...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35230	Ladies and gentlemen, as I have announced, we will now vote on the proposed candidates for the Constitutional Court Judges. I ask Mrs. Sobol, Mr. Ratko Gajic and Mr. Tomljanovic to stand by the lists and help me perform. Resumption of the session at 2.30 p.m., so not for an hour. We continue with an individual debate on the agenda point Presentation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and a vote of confidence of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35232	Mr. President, the Honorable Madam Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I don't want to start from afar, but it's impossible to talk about this government beyond the context in which it forms. It is, in fact, crucially determined by the shadow of one resignation and by the shadow of one mysterious resignation. Many things have already been said in public, and I think as the opposition and the opposition representative, it is difficult to have anything else to add to the inventory that has been made in this respect and to the qualifications that have been given to that resignation. However, what I am particularly concerned about here and what I would like to underline, and I think it is kind of the most dramatic thing in all of this, which is that this resignation is primarily interpreted in the context of Croatia and Europe's relations, that it should be a warning to Europe but that resignation is not given in Europe but is given in Croatia. So the former prime minister did not give his resignation to Europe even though he was motivated by what he said but gave in Croatia and resigned from Croatia. Since until yesterday, everything was actually subsumed in the government's policy for a crucial event one and only, and this is the entry into Europe, as it tended primarily and almost exclusively that string as a lifeline for other failures, the team before it remains a stark gap between this imbalance that, therefore, I doubt that we will be better off in Europe, but that is why we have somehow covered all of this in Croatia itself. And in Croatia, we had a lot of things. Idyllic comments that this government continues a positive trend I don't think can be derived from any concrete data. Let us leave the growth or decline of the social product, it is certainly also dramatic but it is more dramatic and is not for comparison with Japan or with Germany because those from another position are falling rather than us. But we can say that the decline in investment is minus 12%, that the decline in exports is 14%, that the decline in imports is the most interesting 20%, which means that it can't actually be imported because we don't have an export-oriented economy in the meantime, so I think we'll cover imports with that as well. Indifference. Over 22,000 legal entities and some 40,000 employees in those legal entities are covered by an enormous inequity, which is therefore estimated at 16.2 billion kuna. It is said that there is something that has grown even a basket of unional but it is not said that it still stands at 80% or that wages cover 80% on average of these baskets but especially one other thing is not said and that young people who still have their credits in this basket can only look with extreme uncertainty in the future, that this uncertainty in some way and a sense of perspective has become an integral part of the life of all of us and that in fact many of us, and even I think even those who do not need to worry or are in a more favourable social position and social situation are actually planning to survive a period that is ready and not to think about developing. These are all indicators that should be deeply concerned, and since the government has changed in half of one term, it has had to come from some of the provisions concerning such indicators. However, in the government's programme there is no critical reference to the policies being conducted, it is believed that this was right and that we will continue to do so. I don't know how we're gonna be able to move on like this. We do not have a critical view and we do not actually have a relationship to the key points at which we would expect answers to the IMF, to the European Union, according to these social indicators, according to the perspective and security of citizens, as I say to a social reserve that is being created and that we do not know how it will react in the near perspective. We can't treat the crisis as something external and here in everything we've heard today, including what we've read, in fact, it's being treated like something external and a set of acceptable ideas that should have been done, which was not, in fact, controversially given at the general level, actually as a set of good wishes that should be done without showing instruments in which way we're going to face, on which methodological basis we're going to get rid of these good wishes. It is interesting, it is said, there is no economic crisis in Croatia except in the laps made up of government representatives, and so does the prime minister who says she has an economic crisis. But it's also a social crisis and this is also a particular political crisis. It's crazy to argue whether the government has or does not have legitimacy or has legality. Some who, in the theory of state and law, distinguish legality and legitimacy could also successfully respond to Mr. Shakespeare why the government doesn't have the legitimacy even though it has the legality, but these are, I mean, the tensions we don't need. The fact is, therefore, that it comes after a shadow, that this shadow has not been revealed by some light and clear indication of the places where something will be done and with which arguments, with which levers and with which grades. We hear from the government individually from her representatives that I'm going to say she's going to have to make some painful moves. The expression was painfully used several times, not today. So if we're told something is going to be painful, then we can't be told that all of this was good. It has, painfully has its own history and probably has its own problems facing this painful one. Especially in a way, I am not satisfied with one statement that actually shows that we may not think in a sufficiently good way about what should be done. First, to personally withdraw from all grades whether someone is competent or incompetent, it's not my diction or I like to talk that way. But if it is said that exceptional efforts are needed, if it was hanging or hanging until yesterday, at least in the policy led by Mr Sanader through various councils, and the economic council that it should create some things and a national consensus. I'm surprised that's where we're still listening to combat, combat, so to speak, call instead of I mean calls. I think that when Mrs. Kosor says in relation to party cooperation and the perspective, therefore, of all these relationships that the door will be open, I think it's very small. I don't think it's a problem here whether the door to co-operation will be open but whether to call for cooperation at those strategic points for which, therefore, there should be a turning point which will be painful. I think we have a lot of problems ahead of us, and I think it's actually possible from this seat of Parliament to just talk about the need to prepare a political willingness to deal with it and it doesn't lead to the kind of opposition that we've just heard here on a few occasions. She's running really over that to not... relations and radically opposed relations between the authorities and the opposition but to accept responsibility for those points at which an active policy can be set which everyone can accept. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the warning I'm finishing up with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35233	Thank you. We have a correction, one correction to an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35234	With all due respect, my colleague Vujic, I would like to correct your incorrect claim that the government has no legitimacy. There is. Because legitimacy is acquired and sourced from Parliament, it has legitimacy and it has legality which means legality. The government, entrusted by the President of the Republic with the mandate of the prime minister and given confidence, is legally becoming a government. So, there's government and legitimacy and legality and a small lapus, the prime minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35235	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, the distinguished representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35236	Well, before me, my colleague Vujic said that this is a government of continuity and that we have not heard anything new here or in the presentation of Mrs Jadranka Kosor, as a person who seeks confidence for the prime minister, nor have we seen anything new in this programme that we have received here, the Government programme, this is a re-prescription of the existing programme and even perseverance of what has been promised to people to do by 2000, so in the first half of 2008, so it has not happened until today, and I'm going to do something about it later. Unfortunately, since this is the Government of Continuity, neither can it be expected that the behaviour that has been present so far will change and behavior has actually been much more, I can say so much pride and transfer responsibility to others and too little courage to face my own problems and my own abilities, or my own limitations. Mrs. Kosor had one good chance, which is that she had some things in a political sense so far that she had one space where she could now show maybe a different policy, unfortunately, as far as I saw from her speech today, she didn't take advantage of it. And what is a bad indicator is that you did not even take advantage of the opportunity to show in this House that you are able to perceive the problems that Croatia is currently in. So you said it was a difficult situation, you said that the gross social product has fallen, but it would have been good if you had said here today some other indicators showing how much Croatia is in a bad situation. It would be good, for example. that you said that the external debt in a year and a half of the term of office was increased by 20 billion euros. It would be good if you said that we actually got about 100,000 new pensioners in that year and a half and we lost about 50,000 jobs. And if we've already broken so much already, we've seriously violated the balance between those who work and who do, and those who take pensions from it and certain giving that it's really something where the signal rings the alarm. Unfortunately, that's not what you were talking about. I think you should have said here today that our consumption has fallen by 14 index points, which in any case shows that our citizens are getting harder and harder to live, that the standard of citizens is falling more and more and that is one big problem. The big problem you're not talking about is what we call a budget hole that is estimated by economists on some 15 billion kunas. That's not 15 kuna, that's 15 billion kuna that's not easy to get in the budget with this kind of economy, with this kind of consumption falling, with this standard of citizens, and ultimately with this number of employees we currently have in Croatia. And on the other hand, with such a large number of those who gain rights from this small number of employees who work and practice. You also did not say that the current liquidity was estimated at $16.2 billion, which is an extremely large sum, i.e. unpaid transactions, outstanding liabilities. They say the businessmen have come into a situation where no one pays anyone else anything, which means that the economy really needs some of the measures that will help him. Unfortunately, in the past year and a half, the economy has literally been screaming every day. You have formed some economic council, unfortunately of that Economic Council as far as we can see, because you have not been able, you have not had the capacity to listen to these people as they tell you and to perceive all their projects. In the end, and these anti-recession measures you've brought, you haven't implemented them. If you'd spent the last year and a half, you'd have made the economy a little easier, get people in the economy a little bit to say air, and at this point, it'd be easier for us. Unfortunately, for a year and a half, the government under the leadership until yesterday, Eve Sanader, who told me to return my rags, I'm going on vacation now, and you're dealing with problems. So this government systematically deepened problems and did nothing to solve these problems. All reforms have been stopped, no reforms have been implemented. If we had implemented some reforms, we certainly would have found it easier today to have a much easier situation. Unfortunately, it was nothing. The time for reforms you spent in vain, and what awaits us now is the restrictions, the cuts await us, the savings waiting for us, something that will not be easy or simple anyway. And to join what my colleague Vujic was saying about one necessary cooperation and to say so to political intelligence and wisdom, to call for a table on key topics and those reforms that were meant to ensure that some things in Croatia were broken, unfortunately there was not enough political wisdom to include all those involved in the decision-making process, so that in order to make better and better quality of life in Croatia and as soon as possible before leaving the crisis, such things are resolved. Because it's not true what's being said is completely a crisis has come, it's a global character, so it's imported from the world, it's only partially. But also, all these ministers here who deal with finance and the economy will not say, and everyone knows that our problem is a good part of our behaviour in the last 15 years and our policy that we have been leading, which we have not encouraged to produce and the economy, but we have encouraged trade chains and we have turned into really one country in which I think there is not one in the world that has as many retail chains in small cities or better put on this size of a square and the population as many as the Republic of Croatia has. At first, I said that you didn't do some things, and now you're putting them back into your program, and that would be something that would be good and fair to the citizens. That's to tell them, gentlemen, at this point there's no money for it and we won't promise you what we don't have money for and what we can't do. Namely, '99. For years we had a situation that we had a number of laws and we had no money to rights from the laws of people to come true. I'm afraid we're going the same way now. I'll tell you, for example, just one example, and that's for example. the establishment of a state support institute. That's what we suggested in the form of a social pension, you called it state aid. And you in your previous programme, so when Prime Minister Ivo Sanader came here looking for confidence for the prime minister, you said it would be done by the first half of 2008. Now it's half of 2009, there's no word on that. You've re-enlisted state support as an institute, so you re-writed it into this program, and it's really a question of how you're going to do it because, in some documents, you're writing that you don't have any money. On the other hand, you wrote in your program a year and a half ago that you would be decentralizing the welfare system. This deinstitutionalisation and decentralisation did not occur. I'll just tell you that three days ago you brought in the document that Mrs. Jadranka Kosor signed as Deputy Prime Minister, which you're very clearly saying has no money to decentralise social care and social services, that it's something that can possibly be legally worked out right now, but there's no money for it. You have this in your program again, so just please don't write in the programs what you know at the start, and you already wrote in your programs that you are unable to execute because you are aware that in 2010 you will not have any money for these projects. Therefore, public deception, writing to citizens in programs that you will realize something in the beginning that you will not, show or better put up with citizens just to stay in power, you are doing it for a full year and a half, everything was subordinated first to state elections, then to local elections, will now obviously be subordinated to presidential elections. Dearly beloved HDZ gentlemen, the highest price of this courtship and the lack of your political will and courage to stand before the citizens, tell them all the facts and all the problems in which the country is located, but to say your solutions on the other hand and to invite all those who decide to help Croatia get out of the crisis, the price of such a policy is paid by citizens so far, and will pay even higher in the coming period.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35237	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35238	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Opačić who said that all reforms have been stopped. If we are sitting in the same Croatian Parliament, I think we are sitting in this year and a half, that this is not exactly the witnesses and reforms of health care, judicial reform, reform of education, etc. And yet another incorrect allegation, this government does not write a program and does not put into the program what it will not do, I quote: "additions to citizens to be in power". That's just not true. This government, as before, has done so for the benefit of Croatian citizens. And Mrs. Opacic, what you do in your actions, and your colleagues and colleagues, is courting the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35239	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Representative Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35240	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Ms. Kosor. You came before the Croatian Parliament to ask for confidence in your opening speech, if I may say so, you called for your government's programme to be based on the 2007 Coalition Agreement. And in your speech, you tried to avoid everything that was important to Croatian citizens. So, even in your speech, you claim that the crisis is in Croatian society, the Croatian state and that it is the continuity of the government. If there's a crisis even though it's continuity, then where's the legitimacy? Where's the legitimacy? If you say there's a crisis in Croatian society, it's recession and the continuity of the government. Every smart government when it says she's in crisis and she can't, then there's no legitimacy no matter how she comes to power. I assure you of the data on the decline of the social product on the decline of investments, exports, etc. do not give legitimacy to continuity. So the government is offering us nothing new. HDZ policy continues, which began in '94. It is based on the fact that there are between 250 and 300,000 unemployed workers in Croatian society all the time and that a million and a half people cannot make ends meet and we declare it our success. And we say in this policy we seek trust and legitimacy. On such a policy, we can qualify about in Croatia about a few thousand unemployed and hungry go to each tycoon. The creation of each tycoon creates several thousand unemployed, several thousand hungry. What is the continuity in this currency stability policy? The stability of the currency was valid for then, while the creators of our economic policy gave us loans so that we could buy their goods and continue to continue to do so. That means you don't see a way out of this economic situation, out of recession and crisis. In fact, the stability of the currency isn't meant for itself. The stability of the currency is an economic measure for other objectives. As a result, currency stability should also be monitored for balance of payments deficits, trading balance deficits and budget deficits. Since it is certain that we cannot easily get foreign money and place it as fresh money in the country to see what is the next step, which consists of the next step of government. Is it possible not to say anything about that, that you can expect 40 or 50 or 60,000 new unemployed. Can we talk about continuity? Is that a message to the optimism of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? I don't think so. Nor can we be satisfied with that. The recognition of the economic crisis, of course, is seeking a broader consensus, and here it is said to be a crisis, is a recession, and then it is not an apaurini that comes out of the crisis, the economic apaurini as it emerges from the crisis, from that recession. Because we should say that at least we think that we are going to open up some segments of industrial employment policy, not just how we intend to socially calm those who live off the budget. In line with the expectations you are now offering from your programme and my opening speech, I should say that HDZ as a majority party has not decided to give you hot potatoes. But she certainly sought from internal needs a compromise person who would not touch the current relations in society and the state that were drawn up by various corruption affairs. That's the HDZ limit. That is why the limit was set by the future Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. I think it's such a situation that we can't close our eyes to the crisis and that we can't at the level we'll be, we can, we will, we will, we won't. but should draw up at least the minimum measures required by a national consensus that can bring about a crisis that is imported in Croatia, but mainly produced from the current HDZ policy which can fairly distribute the burden of the crisis. As the crisis in Croatia so far has been deployed, all solutions are sought on the back of workers and on the back of pensioners, even worse on the back of an unemployed man and on the back of a pensioner. Such a solution is not optimistic and does not give hope that this government can, unfortunately, get the country out of the crisis. Since it's our government, since we're on the same ship I want you to succeed and deny all those who have shown suspicion, mistrust from what you have said, what you have suggested and what program you have brought. May God help you, but people want to have before them the way out that their government offers them both deadlines or at least hope in which time you will do so. We didn't hear any of it, nor did you suggest it in the document. I'd like time to deny us, but there's no chance of a document or your performance speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35241	Thank you. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote and one replica. The first is the correction of the incorrect allegations, the honourable representative and vice president of the House, Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35242	The wrongly respected representative, Leko, argues, is wrongly his claim that the legitimacy deficit or the absence of the government's legitimacy is in sync with the continuity or discontinuity of politics. Legitimity, as the word itself says, is legitimacy. The delegation is gained by Parliament's trust. If the Croatian Parliament gives confidence, it is a legitimacy. Trust equals ID. If here HDZ representatives, HSS, HSS, HSU, national minorities, independent representatives of 83 of them, therefore a significant majority of that trust to the government, thus giving the government a vote of confidence and legitimacy. That's one equation. Trust equals legitimacy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35243	Thank you. The second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35244	Thank you very much. Comrade Leco, you said that if there is a crisis, if it is determined that the crisis is in the state that the government has no legitimacy. I think it's unprincipled when you say that since one of the major crises was in 2002, to remind you of 400 thousand unemployed, 900 thousand pensioners received some 1,500 kuna pensions and now I could list it for you. Today, 256 thousand people are unemployed with a further decline trend, etc., with increased employment, etc. So you're not principled. Your government in 2002 didn't resign because of that. You've had numerous protests, numerous strikes, numerous dissatisfactions of people, and the survivors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35245	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35246	I replicate my colleagues on the position that he later corrected or that any economic programme is noticeable in the Government's programme, and that there is actually a desire to cloud or socially mitigate, etc., etc. The consequences of a crisis that is still mentioned in the clues. That's not true. Simply in this document, which we have as a government programme, there is not a single word on Croatia's social policy, if that point on the pension system and on health care is excluded. What is seen as a social policy in a narrow sense is not mentioned in any way, not one of the values of the modern social state, social justice, solidarity, equality in any way or as apostrophysed in this programme. On the contrary, it is very uncertain what will happen with social benefits, with social benefits, with the social rights of people in this country. This is to the end uncertain, not a single word is mentioned, and this may be a key question to which we should have received an answer in this government's programme, given what awaits us in the months to come.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35247	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35248	My colleague Davorko, well, it's very innovative, otherwise, the solution that HDZ offers, even when leaving the government. We could conclude that the government fell because the standard of living grew, which increased the employment rate, which the pensioners were satisfied with, and then the prime minister left the government to continue in the same continuity, and the HDZ now accepts it. I have to be ironic because saying that the crisis, recession and that we're in a difficult situation, and not offering anything new in that policy, is really stroking people's eyes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35249	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debate. It is up to the honourable representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35250	Mr. Vice President, dear Mrs. Kosor. At the very beginning, I think it is important to remind the Croatian citizens that here in this House 8 months ago we had a discussion about the government's trust. We pointed to problems, difficulties and dangers, difficult times to come. We sought responsibility and willingness to reform, to save, we proposed solutions that would make our citizens' lives better, easier, safer, but you didn't take it seriously and you refused everything. Everything was ideal for you, and let the citizens know how and how to do it. The main political objective of the former government, and as we see these, because it is actually one and the same government is Croatia's entry into the European Union. I will remind myself of what I said the other day, which is that when HDZ took over in 2004, the European Union took over from Croatia, or we were 4 years away from the European Union. So, the former prime minister himself said on 16 April 2004, that we would finish negotiations by 2007. If we had been responsible and worked, then there would have been no Slovenian blockade, all work would have been done before the Slovenian blockade. Today, 2009. Croatia has failed to achieve this goal, much further than the European Union, but 5 years ago, resulting in a lack of political will to deal with corruption and a willingness to reform. Ivo Sanader lost the battle against corruption and for the rule of law. If you were ready and able to decide on reform in the judiciary, on reforms in the state administration, on reforms in health care, on continuing decentralisation, you would probably be much closer to that goal. If you had shown a firm political will and determination to deal with corruption and organised crime, you would almost certainly have been much closer to that goal. If you were willing to take all affairs off the agenda, you would show your willingness to choose the truth because only the truth takes affairs off the agenda, the truth no matter who it comes to and wherever the top of the government comes to, but you're not. Eight months ago in this House, we reached a consensus in the fight against organised crime and the fight for the safety of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens. You violated him unilaterally by replacing the Chief Director of Police, without a word of explanation, and only eight months ago you presented him as a savior. It seems his independence and professionalism has led him where he shouldn't have come. We will see how the investigation will end in the Campion affair, given that you voted here as the majority of Parliament's rulings that everything is in order. But I am afraid it is clear to everyone that this government has nothing new, neither capacity nor willingness nor knowledge nor desire to work for the benefit of citizens and citizens of Croatia. This is the government of continuous abilities. Although one news we heard today from Mrs. Kosor is the formation of a new ministry, the Ministry of Administration, because we need what she said to be a strong and strong administration. Is that what it means is that so far the Central Office of the State Department has done its job badly, and if it is what it is like to have a man led by him be rewarded by the position of the Constitutional Judge. I want to believe that Mrs. Kosor has both the will and the desire to change and move things. I believe she's learned something since the start of her term, even though there's been a lot of wandering. For example, in the case of staff solutions at the beginning of your mandate, the appointment of assistants, I will remind your assistant who were immediately and shortly after that being replaced by financial malfeasances, and then, in their place, a re-appointed assistant who was under investigation for abuse of office, and then a counselor who was illegally receiving assistance, and then a case that had long occupied the Croatian public, which was the case around Mrs. Sigrid who called you to seek a security check, that you were looking for a security check of members of NGOs. But last in a series of ignorance and unwillingness to deal with problems and a new proposal of the Law of Insemination. To vote in government for him, not to use the powers of the Deputy Prime Minister, and this applies to the second Deputy Prime Minister, and then publicly embellish the image of yourself and show understanding is unacceptable. We will closely monitor how determined you are to withdraw from the position of Prime Minister this rigid medieval law, gather everyone interested and make a new law suitable for the time in which we live. Dear Mrs. Kosor, the former prime minister has not done you a favor representing you as an associate who is doing excellent notes in Parliament. Perhaps that is enough in HDZ to become a candidate for prime minister, believe in the citizens and citizens of Croatia under the difficult circumstances in which the state is located is needed incomparably more than that. I think neither you nor this government are capable of dealing with serious problems in the country for a simple reason, because most of the reason for these problems is the incompetence of your old new government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35251	Thank you. And now we have to not go count a lot of corrections. Well, let's take it in a row. First is the distinguished representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35252	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it is incorrect that Croatia is now located beyond the European Union, than it was a few years ago. I will only quote some of the representatives of the European Commission who said that Croatia can technically conclude negotiations with the European Union this year and that Croatia is on the verge of joining the European Union. So we were never closer, not further than you said. But it seems that you in the SDP had a good recipe for rapid entry into the European Union, and you made that recipe into a Racan-Drnovšek agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35253	Thank you. It is now up to the honourable representative Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35254	Well, here's a colleague who incorrectly claims, only the truth takes off the affairs. That's not true. Because we proved the truth. And the SDP of the parrot repeats its untruth, so that the untruth becomes true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35255	Thank you. It is now up to the honourable representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35256	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Dragovan, I have to correct you because you misrepresented the Director of Police as being removed. He's been promoted. And I hope that this government will be so promoted very soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35257	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35258	You incorrectly led your colleague Dragovan to say that we were not ready for health reform. The health reform that is under way shows exceptional results. We have health care of very high quality and availability. The current government's programme in the coming period also speaks of a further continuation of reform and emergency medicine, primary protection, which will further improve this important area. You don't want to accept it, but it's your problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35259	Thank you. Now the correction of the incorrect allegations is the esteemed representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35260	Mr. Vice President, here's my colleague Dragovan in his one little pledoaje looks from a very famous school from the former system, gave one line that comes down to the truth, and that's a claim about cheating voters. Well, it would be funny if it wasn't on your side. You, gentlemen of the SDP, together with your President Milanovic, have led the campaign to claim that your Mr Ljubomir Jurcic will be SDP's prime minister. And then after the election in agreement with Mrs Vesna Pusic, Mr Milanovic set himself up. So much for liability to voters, so much for cheating voters, so much for the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35261	We have one Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35262	Thank you very much. Article 209 and 210 were injured, you introduced high standards in correcting incorrect allegations, and you had to warn Mr Matkovic, not even mentioning that he was correcting an incorrect quote, but was telling a story of his own. He probably remembers from Vrgorec that it was in the party, so that's why he says it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35263	Thank you. He corrected the incorrect quote in his own way as I tolerate everyone else, so I ask you to tolerate it as well. Thank you very much. Let's move on. Now it is the correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35264	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I am correcting the allegations of a representative who says that this government has no ability, has no willingness to work for the benefit of its citizens and has no continuity. Quite the opposite, Mr. Representative. This government has high knowledge, high motivation, high social capacity to work on the welfare of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35265	Thank you. And now it's the honorary representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35266	Col. Dragovan, as usual, has a long and incorrect introduction to the debate, but I would only remind him that what he said was incorrect that the government had done nothing for the benefit of the citizens. Col. Dragovan, if it's not a good thing that employment has grown by 120 thousand 423 workers compared to 2003, which unemployment has been reduced by 103,000 731 employees since 2003, which is the average net salary increased by 30% compared to 2003, which is the minimum wage increased by 55% compared to 2003, which is a cash tax for the unemployed from then on I will remind you of a thousand kunas on today at least 2 thousand 600 kuna, then I don't know what I should do more if you don't understand it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35267	Thank you. It is now up to the distinguished representative Susana Bilic-Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35268	Thank you very much. I'm correcting my colleague Dragovan who at the beginning of his debate said that when we discussed here five months ago, the SDP went with its suggestions that everything was ideal for us. That's just not true. Most in the Croatian Parliament refused SDP proposals because they were not good quality and because they worked, they would have done more damage to Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy than if we had accepted them. My colleague Dragovan, when you mention incompetence, you repeat ignorance throughout your debate and yet the Croatian Deputy Prime Minister of today's term and I hope that today's prime minister has not learned anything, that you hope she has learned something since the beginning of her term. My dear colleague, I'm sure Mrs. Kosor has not learned anything since the beginning of this term, but there are some things I can't learn in any term, they're simply learning in a family home.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35269	Thank you. Now it is up to the honourable representative Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35270	Thank you very much. I would correct a whole series of incorrect allegations by a fellow Dragovan who said Croatia was closer to the European Union in 2004 than it is to this day that it is simply not true. Croatia has never been closer to the European Union, and the future government of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor will surely solve the blockade problem from Slovenia. However, dear counterpart Dragovac and Prime Minister Sanader's government and the government of Jadranka Kosor, unlike your prime minister's government, were not prepared or willing to trade with the territory to join the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35271	Thank you. Now it's up to the distinguished representative of Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35272	I'd make it right, like my colleague said, my colleague said that everything was perfect for this government. Well, my colleague wasn't ideal because this government has its own program and you don't expect them to copy your proposals. And another thing, how can you say that this government has neither knowledge nor willingness? Well, buddy, you've got high school training, you've demoted all school institutions because people in front of you who have colleges, masters of science, professors at colleges, etc. And you dare to teach such men lessons.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35273	Thank you. Now it's the honourable representative Nevenka Majdenic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35274	Thank you very much. So here's MP Dragovan said that they pointed to difficulties and offered solutions eight months ago. Agent Dragovan, that's really not true. You wrote though some laws that consisted mostly of two points and one of those points was mostly the finance minister would adopt a rule on how to secure those funds. It should also be recalled that these laws of yours would be burdened by 15 billion kunas. Well, here's so much for your help.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35275	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35276	I would also correct the incorrect allegations where my colleague found that the government was incompetent and that this new government is coming that continuity is incompetence. I am not going to talk here about the achievements because you simply do not want to accept them from the social, economic, infrastructure, NATO, the Security Council and the accession of the European Union. But I want to remind you when you talk about the government's ability to do so is a key point in giving voters in past elections where we as HDZ got 66 and you as SDP 56 mandates. But what's even more important when we talk about this government's programme is that it's our coalition partners and our coalition potential where there's no euphoria of election, where there's no politics and where we can't trick anyone with any marketing tricks. Our coalition partners believe in our programme and programme of government, and therefore HDZ together with them will lead this country and continue this mandate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35277	Thank you. It is now up to the honourable representative Dragan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35278	My colleague Dragovan said here that the HDZ government is incompetent. That's not true. It is correct to say that the most incompetent government was the SDP government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35279	Thank you. I'd just like to remind you that we still have 35 reported and today we're going to end this debate. It is up to the individual debate of the distinguished representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35280	Thank you very much. Now, few HDZ colleagues have been fired, so there will be no correction to my debate, probably. I will only try to explain in a few sentences why I will not support today's proposed government and mandate in this House, and the reasons are very simple and understandable to all the citizens who are watching us here today. The first thing is because this government, with minimal changes, has led us to the situation we are in. So, citizens are getting worse every day, the crisis is getting bigger, there's no perspective, no solution that could make their lives easier for citizens in the coming months. So this government has an objectively poor score. We can talk one way or the other, but the result is bad, all the indicators say it. Secondly, there is no ability, no knowledge because if there were, we would already have some solutions that would be applied today. We were mentioned in this House five, six months ago about the HDZ anti-recession measures ten or so intentions and as one of the measures was mentioned budget, budget rebalancing and it was the only long series of months that was ever adopted in this House. So what happens now? The 4th month rebalance will now change again. So that measure's not good either. So it's definitely evidence that he doesn't have enough skills. There's no legitimacy. People who voted for HDZ two years ago to form a government, for the prime minister of the Sanader then to offer this same government in this House would definitely not vote for such a government and such a prime minister. She didn't go to the election. Let me tell you what people say. People say a prime minister like this wouldn't get that support then. And the fourth is because citizens want early elections. They also want because they are convinced that in this situation the new government will have more power to bring them out of this crisis situation. That's four basic reasons why I won't vote for this government. This government, it seems, has failed to respect my fellow HDZ appeal, I see tiles are rising. This government is one of the bad orchestras he left, run away from a bad conductor. And I highly doubt that now the first violin in a bad orchestra will be better conducted than that orchestra was run by his fundamental conductor. This government is an alibi for the government, there is no leadership, there is nothing that will show Croatian citizens that they have a perspective, that they will live better and that we will get through this crisis better. Every small problem results in discounts, resulting in even not giving in, but in promises that will not be fulfilled. Every little problem, not to mention agriculture now, etc., will most likely not come true. And because decisions are made from today to tomorrow is a line of less resistance, it is not a leadership and it is not a government that can get Croatia out of this situation. And what's the situation? The situation is such that for the first time in 10 years, the GDP is negative and not a little 6.7% in the first trimester. Do you know the same situation between 99 and 2009? The government was run by HDZ and then and now. Negative GDP. We owe Croatia, or not us, but the government 40 billion euros. There's never been a more in charge of the country. Each Croatian citizen is in charge of more than 60 thousand kunas that must be returned from somewhere. Inflation, today someone was saying that the consumer basket price was down 3.9%. Only in Europe so high. The EU average is 1.2%. Eurozone 0.6%. So there's some difference between these results and what's going on in Croatia. Unemployment grew seven months in a row, 35 thousand of our fellow citizens lost their jobs for those seven months, and how did the government help not do that? It's very simple, she passed two laws, one law on trade where we managed to get our fellow citizens fired because there was no business anymore and a law that restricts the use of tobacco products. Also, many of our fellow citizens have lost their jobs in cafes, in catering facilities in this recession year. So this government helped reduce the problem of unemployment. And let me say, the difference between the percentage in Croatia and the EU 27 is 6% when you look at the percentage of the unemployed. So about 70, 80,000 people more than that would be if the standard in the European Union were now in place. And what someone mentioned was that the crisis was imported and that here are many other countries also struggling and have a GDP fall, that is correct, but when you look at it and it is not difficult to go to Eurostat and look at statistics for the European Union. In the European Union in the first quarter where we had the drop of 6.7 was 2.4, so the difference of 4.5%, 4.3%, I guess, means something. And someone was talking about Hungary as a negative example. Hungary fell 2% lower than Croatia in the first quarter. And all this says that unfortunately this government will not allow what Croatian citizens need, which is that the situation is moving in a more positive direction. And in the end, even the coalition partners I listened to today very carefully what was said here, no, it can be seen between the lines convinced of the success of this government. Of the minorities who speak, we're giving you another six months, the HSLS that is looking for a more active program, 9 days has given a representative of the HSLS Club to create an exact government program because this program is not good. So even coalition partners don't believe in the success of this government. And how, then, in these difficult times, the government will have the strength to implement all these reforms that need to be implemented. And if you look at a man communication modern, or how citizens communicate daily, you can see that this government and the prime minister who was proposed in front of the ruling majority within a very short time of success form the largest social group on facebook, 100 thousand Croatian citizens join the group in just five days I do not want Jadranka Kosor to be my prime minister. It is true, it does not say that Mrs Kosor may not, in some, new overpowering, in these elections, be a good prime minister and accepted by Croatian citizens, but they do not accept such a way of imposing and such a way where there is no legitimacy or fundamentally to propose a new person for the prime minister because they do not believe that in this way Croatia can be returned to what we all expect and that is to get out of the crisis, that Croatian citizens live better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35281	Thank you. And we have a pretty good number of corrections of incorrect allegations. He's the first respected representative of Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35282	So, my colleague Maras, I'm certainly not going to tell you anything new about this inaccuracy of yours that you said that this government has brought citizens into an increasingly difficult position of life. Well, that's been repeated several times here, but the problem is that you obviously haven't been able to remember it yet and I don't know how many times to repeat it to you so that you finally realize that the negative economic flows from the world's financial markets have gone to the economy of Croatia. And that Croatia is not an abandoned island, but it shares the fate of states in its environment that has also been affected by recession. You have to accept whether you want to or not. So this government, it's not her fault. If they are, and you've heard, I don't know if you remember that other countries are far more developed, they also have a difficult situation. As for the coalition partners. Well, you know, if these coalition partners wanted to join you, you wouldn't be sitting in a bench like this right now, but you'd be discussing who's gonna be the government here today, you'd have to wonder why they don't want coalition partners with you, why don't you have friends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35283	I'd like to ask anyone who's reporting to stick to the weather. Dear Representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35284	There's a whole series of incorrect allegations, but I'm going to refer to this one that Mrs. Kosor doesn't have a leadership like Mr. Maras said. That's exactly what you resented our Prime Minister, Mr. Sanader, that he was a leader, that he had a leadership, that there were not strong people sitting in the government. Mrs. Kosor has proved by her work so far that she has a leadership, she has even announced that she will manage a firm woman's hand. She's proven that so far on a series of jobs she's been doing, and that's simply what Mr. Maras said. He also said that citizens want early elections. All the polls are exactly the opposite and it's simply not true what Mr. Maras said. He also said that there is no legitimacy for the hundredth time today, that this government today would not get support if it went to the polls. We'd get support that's proven in the last local elections where the larger number...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35285	Time! Thank you. And now it's the honourable representative Frana Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35286	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll pick up where my colleague left off. In fact, a colleague said voters who gave two and a half years ago to the Croatian Democratic Community support so as not to repeat this support today. Well, the best denial is just finished local elections, where Croatia's democratic community has certainly received the highest support, the largest number of voters and votes for the Croatian Democratic Community. We've received the highest number of councilmen, the largest number of cities, counties and municipalities. So it's clear enough that the voters themselves denied you a month and a half ago. And secondly, you incorrectly claimed that the state created a 40 billion-euro debt. That's completely incorrect. Most of the debt there are banks and all the families of our Croatian and all entrepreneurs, so it has nothing to do with the truth, because the state reduced its share within that debt. That's how a colleague should know.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35287	Thank you. Now it's time to correct the inaccuracies. Dear Representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35288	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Maras said this government has no legitimacy. We've been hearing about this all morning. That's just not true. So if this government had no legitimacy, the president of the state wouldn't have entrusted Mrs. Kosor with a mandate to put this government together. And here, as counterpart Frano Matušić said earlier, the elections proved that they were parliamentary to win the election again, not you gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35289	Thank you. It is now up to the distinguished representative Bozica Šolić, the correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35290	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I am correcting the quote from Mr. Maras' debate when he said people want early elections. Mr. Maras, my colleague Shuica just said the polls show and that's not true. And you know what exactly is? It's true that right now the SDP doesn't want early elections. For what reason and for what fact? Just because your boss recently, when there were local elections, lost him to a local politician. You're not ready for the election to come out, this is all farce you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35291	Thank you. Now it is up to the honourable representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35292	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The inaccuracy is that of fellow Maras, so that there is no allegations afterwards, there is an accurate, incorrect quote that the citizens voted in 2007 wanting Mr Sanader as prime minister, but not for Mrs Kosor. Well fellow Maras, they both you and me and each of us, we've all actually been elected to the Parliament lists, like all the other MPs. Everything else is part of the procedure. And the apropo election, you're always the polling winners, and we're the real ones. Like your SDP in my 15-term Vrgorec has this time 1, next time maybe none.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35293	Thank you. And now it's the honorary representative and vice president of the House, Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35294	I guess I'll have to like the one in the Roman Senate, Caton, repeat the Cartaga should be destroyed, as the question is raised in this claim by my colleague Maras that the government has no legitimacy, so the government should, in a conveyed sense, destroy. You don't have to, because the government has legitimacy. It is because this government springs from, has its legitimacy in the elections, and on the basis of the 2007 elections, it has this legitimacy and will now be held by this government on the basis of all MPs, most of the MPs in the Croatian Parliament. You see, in 2002, when Prime Minister Racan resigned at the time, we didn't consider his government illegal, nor when President Mesic entrusted the cabinet's mandate to Ivica Racan again, that the government he entrusted with was illegal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35295	Thank you. The next correction of the incorrect allegations will be carried out by the distinguished representative Krunoslav Markovovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35296	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35297	Count yourself in!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35298	I'm being swept away. So, colleague Maras incorrectly claims speaking about this government and comparing it to a bad orchestra, a bad conductor and the like. I think it's more about the affinity of music, because my colleague Maras prefers cheaper populist music. But I still suggest that he support his government in the shadows in these long days.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35299	Thank you. It is now up to the honourable representative Petar Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35300	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Maras said he didn't see any solution for the better. Then he said there was no power for this government, that it had no power to get out of the crisis. I'd tell him if they didn't see it, they don't have a vision. Because Mrs. Kosor, the prime minister of the government, proved she, first and foremost, made the Ministry of Defence work in a European role model, along with Ivo Sanader, brought Croatia to the door of Europe. So she knows, she's got a lot of matches in her legs and she's worked a lot for a winning HDZ, and you'll still be in opposition for years, years, years and ten years.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35301	Thank you. Dear representative Goran Maric, correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35302	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Maras said the Croatian government did not accept any SDP anti-recession measures proposed. That is not true, because all ten anti-recession measures the Croatian government has brought to the proposal of the Economic Council, which includes two members of the SDP and two of the most respected economic experts from counterparts Greece and counterpart Jurcic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35303	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ante Kulušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35304	A fellow Maras says you're in charge of the government for 40 billion kuna, the state for 40 billion kuna. Comrade Matušić has already corrected it. My colleague knows it's a lie and it's not true. However, it is too sad and too sad that a young man in such a high house can tell this much in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35305	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35306	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras said that, incorrectly, this government has no legitimacy and that citizens do not want a prime minister. My colleague, you do not represent all citizens, because they said in the elections what they think and which government they trust, the government of the Croatian Democratic Community. As far as the legitimacy in this House is concerned, the birds know that this government has legitimacy, and you also degrade the institution of the Parliament and the parliamentary deputies who signed for Mrs Kosor, and you also degrade the president of the state who, within a very short period of time, gave Mrs Kosor the confidence that she is the prime minister who has both parliamentary and programming capacity.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35307	Thank you. And now the correction of the incorrect allegations is the honorable representative of Zeljana Kalash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35308	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In this forest of incorrect allegations, I would choose a correction of only three incorrect allegations. First, says Mr. Maras, the crisis is the result of this government's work. Maybe a young colleague doesn't have cable TV, but here we are in 2009, so let's say it's still on the agenda in the world today, the global economic crisis is not a crisis in the Republic of Croatia. Second. Let me say what people want. I quote you. You may have a crisis of identity when we're already in crisis, because you're actually just a business director of the SDP, and you're not a confessor of the HDZ voters, and you're not a coalition voter either. And third, you say people want new elections. In addition to these 10 mandates you remember the difference between 56 SDPs and 66 HDZs in May and a half people throughout Croatia have told you what they want. 150000 voters, Croatia's residents received HDZ, not SDP. And for the end after a little bit of this mathematical data allow music data Mr. Maras, your first violin is your main face in the orchestra. [[Intruding Capricorn: Time!]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35309	Thank you. And finally, distinguished representative Susana Vardić Bilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35310	Thank you very much. Although my colleagues and colleagues have almost corrected everything before me, but if my colleagues are not tired of repeating that this government has no ability, no knowledge, no legitimacy, and I will not be bored with saying that it is not so, that it is not true. My colleagues have already said everything. I will only take the opportunity to ask my colleague Maras how he did not hear that in the opening presentation, Mrs Kosor invited all parliamentary representatives from the opposition to help the government's joint and general success with their proposals for the benefit of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and not only throughout the afternoon, we expect the evening of this step and the conversation from the SDP bench. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35311	Thank you. And now it's next, the distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here's your esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35312	My colleagues and colleagues, ladies ministers and ministers in resignation, candidates and candidates for the new government. Following today's debate, I saw that some of them were bothering to say the right thing when they spoke to Mrs. Kosor, or some of them spoke to the prime minister. For my sake and for our sake, I have checked in the Croatian language adviser to the Institute of Croatian Language and Linguistics Zagreb and they recommend using the mandate, not the mandate. Well, therefore, Madam Prime Minister. Now, both of them, both of them, and I say what the institute recommends, and each other who wants to have each other. The first thing I'm saying is that I don't agree with those who, for everything that's been going on, what's going on and what's going to happen with their finger against HDZ, or HDZ alone. Nothing, nothing would be possible to do back almost two years, not on Friday or today, nor will it be possible tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, to support everything from their coalition partners. Therefore, the responsibility of amnesty of fellow Fristic, colleague of Pupovac, Mrs Adlesic and colleague of Hrelj is incorrect because they are part of that ruling coalition with full right to attribute to themselves everything that is good and to celebrate their pleasure with everything they have done for Croatia. And I really don't know why we always speak critically of HDZ alone, and so persistently, and even aggressively, we avoid talking about partners who are not only partners in Parliament, but also in the Government, who have their own ministers, state secretaries and other functions in the executive government. For me, therefore, the same responsibility is borne by the Croatian Peasant Party and the Serbian Democratic Independent Party, HSLS and the Retired Party, and I see no reason why they do not call them part of the government because they are. Unlike my opposition colleagues, I don't think the government has any legitimacy. It really needs to be principled to the end, to respect the laws of this state, because the legitimacy of the government comes from Parliament's Parliament. It is clear to everyone, but this team more, Mrs Kosor, on page 7 of your programme should not really stand the sentence “The government of the Republic of Croatia chosen by Croatian citizens.” It is not the government chosen by Croatian citizens, because it is precisely the fact that the legitimacy of the Government draws from Parliament rather than direct elections as far as I know two, and perhaps even three members, or candidates for the government, were not even in the elections, in parliamentary elections. It is therefore not good to have such a provision in the government's programme as if the government were directly elected in the elections from Croatian citizens. Since this error was also made in 2007, the eighth one entered into the program remained. This just means that the offered program should have been read a little more carefully. It is quite understandable that the representatives of the ruling majority of the program and the performance speech of Mrs. Kosor seek to single out and point out what is best, and my obligation is like that of the opposition bloc to find weak spots. It's simply because it wouldn't be later said you didn't notice, you didn't warn, you didn't say, so that's why I'm doing my duty. However, when the candidates for the government came to the Parliament this morning, I must tell you right now, I was looking at the filled order. Mr. Calmeta was sitting on that extra chair under the camera. I counted and counted 19 candidates for members of the government, and I'm 20 on paper, so I later found who I'm missing, but what am I trying to say? In 2003, when Mr. Sanader first formed his government, the main message and motto was "Little but Effective Government". And then the government started with 15 members. Right? That's what we all remember. In this proposal, the government has 20 members, of which four vice presidents. But we also have 66 state secretaries, 20 directors of agencies, directors and institutions appointed by the government and all in all 360 state officials. It is a good thing that HSP may not have entered the coalition, although at some point in time, Pupovac feared those opportunities because they should be doing a reconstruction of this hall because there is not enough room for members of the government, especially in the current morning at least two people should not come because it is only 18 chairs if I am not wrong. I don't think it's a good message, but I know, the coalition has its own terms and price. What, and before I move on to the offered program, which was expected of Mrs. Kosor is a kind of inventory of the state you're starting from, from which you're starting. In fact, this inventory is always welcome because only on the basis of an evaluation of what it started with, as long as it came in a year, two, six months, we can say whether the government was successful or not. So, I expected the decline in gross social product, the decline in employment, the decline in the purchasing power of the population, the decline in personal consumption, the drop in particularly foreign investment in the economy, the growth in external debt, the growth in internal debt, the growth in liquidity and the growth of interest. This is approximately an inventory or point of inventory that should be given and converted into figures in order to make it easier in the future to really value what is made. But just to get back to interest for a while. Mrs. Kosor, I know that the government and you as Prime Minister have no direct jurisdiction over the banks. But indeed interest and business policy of foreign banks in Croatia, I will not say Croatian banks because something which is a serious problem, which puts our citizens really into debt slavery and I think we have to do and do something in this country, which is more so the behaviour of these same banks, Italian banks in Slovenia and Italian banks in Croatia, is not the same as interest policy. Both German and Austrian banks in Serbia have one policy, in Croatia another policy. So it should really be seen, and I think that with the help and perhaps the governor of the National Bank, we should find ways to influence the business policy of these banks. Besides this domestic inventory, as far as Europe is concerned, everyone mentioned today a Slovenian blockade, and why only Slovenian? So Croatia has a problem with the British-Scandinavian blockade in the chapter of the Justice Court which is longer and more dangerous and more difficult to solve obviously if we listen to those messages coming from Brussels. Therefore, it is good not to change the direction of Croatia's policy towards Ljubljana in terms of giving in because of their blockade, but this deblockation of the British-Scandinavian concerns me more. The government programme states that coalition agreements are an integral part of the government's programme, so all existing ones. Since we've only received a government programme, and not new texts of coalition agreements, I'm asking or drawing conclusions, but I'm not going to get an answer. Does this mean that all agreements concluded in 2008 remained in force unchanged or that changes were made in progress? Because of these provisions of these agreements, and in particular the agreement between HDZ, HSLS and HSS in the economic and social areas speaks terribly. And I only end up with this sentence. In the Valde program when you mention trade and the Law on Trade, given the Constitutional Court's decision, it no longer regulates business hours. So I ask you, from an agreement with HSLS and HSS that you have on page 72, to take over that part of the program and to regulate the work on Sundays in a collective agreement and only a collective contract if this agreement is in force instead of the Law on Trade and Labour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35313	Thank you. Now it's up to the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35314	I thank Mr. Vice President, Madam Prime Minister, I think it's a proper term for a woman who's been given a mandate to put together a new government with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. I, of course, won't, or by default, won't vote for the new prime minister and her proposed associates and associates. We are here today, coming here, not at all opening up the story of legitimacy, illegality etc., of course I will always defend the right of the majority who sits here in this Assembly which HDZ has thanks to its coalition partners, to clearly propose in one term, so to speak, I guess within itself power and to form a government. What is problematic is that the resignation was submitted by Ivo Sanader, for which it was white, not only here in Parliament, but in the general public, that it was the person who led for many years the coalition government of the HDZ and who was actually the person for whom the public had the impression that he was the one who solved all the problems in this country. And there's a problem with the way he's gone from the head to the former government now. No explanation. But what was particularly disturbing to me, and I am the surest and the fastest citizen, he said through a series of statements given, that he wanted to shock on the one hand Europe, that is to say to express his revolt in the negotiations, that is, in the blockade of negotiations, and on the other hand, that he wanted to shock the citizens of Croatia, to make them realize finally what kind of situation Croatia is in. That's what he said. And nicely gone and said, "Jenny, I'm going now and you guys get serious. My colleagues and colleagues, listening to today's debate especially in this afternoon's area where individual debates took place, I dare say that Croatian citizens seem to have gotten serious but long ago. And you colleagues and colleagues from HDZ and the ruling coalition and last week's departure from the former prime minister wasn't enough for you to get serious. You're trying to tell these same citizens that everything is wonderful and wonderful, that the former government was doing everything great, and that here's what's happened to no one now. We move on, we have a likely future prime minister, we have a new government, we actually have an old government. My colleagues and colleagues, what changed in that government? Except we got one vice president, or we're gonna get one more vice president. I would very much like to know what this vice president is going to do and what we got one ministry more. The truth is abolished by the Central State Administration Office, but please don't convince me that those who worked in that office will be sufficient in the new ministry. And we got another minister without a portfolio. This is very much in favour of what Mrs Kosor said in the opening section about the crisis in which Croatia is in, about the difficult situation and about the need for saving and cutting in all possible ways, and primarily when it comes from ourselves. In doing so, she thought not only of us here in Parliament, but also of the government on the one hand. Let's cut teams, official cards and the like, and on the other hand, let's increase the number of Deputy Prime Ministers and the number of ministries. Government Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the term of office of 2009-2011 Today we got it here on benches around 8.30. it's actually those changes to that government programme that we got about 2 years ago that were related to the 2008-2011 period. I went to read carefully, I think the most attention was of course given to the fact that where joining and entering NATO was written there, as a member of NATO, etc. These are the most significant changes you can find in the 2009-2011 programme. My colleague Lesar spoke before me about the necessary inventory. You know what we were supposed to do here today? And Mrs. Kosor was supposed to come here today not with the cosmetic changes of this government, but to ask all of her current ministers and vice-presidents of the government to write on several sheets of paper, what is the state of Croatia today? I'm starting with finance. Mr. Shucker, who still laughs so beautifully and beautifully. Well, that's just what I'm starting with. That's what this is about. Come here today with concrete things. All this stuff that's written in the 2009-2011 government program really comes down to it, we're gonna do what we're gonna do or we're gonna do this. In full compliance with the other part of the speech in which the prime minister for the formation of the new government speaks about the difficult situation in which the state is located. In what way and how do you think to convince the public that this set, proposed new candidates, new old candidates for ministers, ministers, vice presidents, etc. suddenly become aware of the situation in which we are, find the right way out of the crisis that has partly led us to our own inaction? Excuse my colleagues and colleagues, because you should be reminded here of what we started asking questions about the situation in the country about about a year ago, about the general situation in the crisis, not only in the country but also outside the country and what will certainly affect Croatia. Just a year ago, you all spoke in a row. There's no way. Everything's beautiful and beautiful. Croatia is stable, what happens will not hit Croatia. Now all of a sudden everyone else is guilty, only you sitting here aren't guilty. When we budgeted, so we needed to repeat the discussions that we had at the time and when we talked about what forecasts, let's, let's do something, let's go with measures, laws, support to the economy, etc. No, I don't. You were making fun of all our suggestions that were coming. You were still laughing at the last budget rebalancing. And when we said on the last budget rebalancing that there was going to be a new budget very soon, you laughed. You all laughed together. Today, the prime minister comes out and we have one budget rebalancing waiting for us first, and another budget rebalancing is going to fall. So do we need to take out the phonograms from the session? But it's easy for you to laugh again today, to demean everything that comes from this side. My colleagues and colleagues, Sanader asked the citizens to make themselves known, I think he should have asked you first, from the ruling coalition to get serious and figure out what the state is in today's situation. Madam Commissioner, Mrs. Kosor, you weren't here when I spoke. I can't support you as prime minister, I wish you success in your work, because we all live in the same country. But I can't support you and your proposed associates, because I'm going to say it again, that's them, but with you basically headed by those in recent years, that's all I'm going to limit myself to, in the last year you haven't wanted to listen to anyone. Not that you didn't want to listen from the opposition, you didn't want to listen to experts when they said what was going on in Croatia. And I just can't accept that you've all regained consciousness overnight and that in the coming period you'll be able to help, that this country is coming out of crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35315	Thank you. And now we have several corrections of incorrect allegations and three replicas. The first is the correction of the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35316	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Sobol probably wanted to prove that the number and vice president of the government and the ministries were increasing. We don't have a vice-presidential post in this new government's proposal. I'm not much of a mathematician, but I do know that Mrs. Kosor, at the time she was given a mandate to put the government together, goes to the post of president, that this is where Mr. Bozidar Pankretic comes to. She's the Deputy Prime Minister so far if we've forgotten. And secondly, we all here on the report every year of the vehicular attorney's office just reminded ourselves that there are the most problems in the administration. And now we're setting up a new Ministry of Administration, but so far we've had a Central State Office. So it's not a newspaper either.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35317	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the distinguished representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35318	I just wanted to correct the allegations, and there's been a change in the ministry. Mr. Dragan Primorac is no longer a minister, we have a new name so the government is not exactly what it was, one is Mr. Fuchs' new name instead of Mr. Primorac. One correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35319	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35320	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting two incorrect allegations from my colleague. The first is that HDZ and future prime minister tell citizens everything is nice and beautiful. That's not true. The Croatian Democratic Community and the future prime minister have recognised a whole series of difficulties in which our citizens face a global crisis, our economics and future prime ministers, together with members of the government, with the support of the parliament, are sure to find a solution to these problems. Another incorrect allegation that Prime Minister Sanader left without a word. That's incorrect. On several occasions, he reiterated the reasons he left the cabinet president's post but if he knew that the SDP would regret his departure, he might reconsider his decision once more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35321	Thank you. And the correction of an incorrect quote by the esteemed representative of Zeljana Kalash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35322	Thank you very much. I would correct an incorrect allegation or claim made by Mrs Sobol, which is that today's Prime Minister, Mrs Kosor, the current Deputy Prime Minister, is one of the most positioned women in Croatian politics today. And Mrs Sobol will remind the president of the Committee on Gender Equality, who has fought many times so far, even organised thematic discussions on women's representation in places, in positions of decision-making, in positions and in the decision-making economy. Today we have a chance to choose the wife of the Prime Minister. You said Mrs. Kosor offered today a government programme that bears only cosmetic changes. The fact is that today's government is actually a message of continuity. I will remind you since 2003 that today's coalition relations, that Madam MPs, today's coalition partners who are sitting today, are also supporting Mrs. Kosor and you, as a person who deals with gender equality and women's representation in politics, will not give support to a woman for the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35323	Thank you. And now he had three replicas. First is the distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35324	Thank you. My colleague Sobol said that she had the impression that Sanader was solving all the problems, and here I would remind her that the former prime minister, or still the current prime minister, until the new prime minister was elected, I don't know what limb of something is in between, so he said he was very immodest to leave as Diocletian. You see, the Diocletian has declared himself a master and a "god" for life, an emperor, and after leaving, he has not won the title of Honorary President of Rome, but the title of Augustus. However, even when he became a "god" and became a master emperor, he changed his name so that he was no longer a Diocles but Gaius, Aurelius, Valerius, Diocletianus. All the difference between them is that Sanader did not change his name and that when Diocletian left deep and large reforms and was one of the greatest Roman emperors, he carried out military reform, administrative administration and finance. And we have what's left.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35325	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35326	Yes, I'll repeat that in the public, Sanader's former prime minister has made a real impression that he is so to speak God and beating in this country that solves all the problems, which he's pounding on the table, which is so few hits by certain ministers when he realizes that the public thinks differently from the ministers thinks. But he didn't know everything. I remind you of the last actor, the current morning when we just showed him on this side of our questions that he doesn't really know what's going on in the country, that he's lost that we're really in touch with reality, and I remember when he said that and what he said about some kind of quiz and quiz questions I told him at the time, Mr. Sanader in a quiz or you know or you don't know, if you don't know you're out. He decided obviously to drop out.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35327	Thank you. I would ask you to discuss the government, the debate is about the prime minister, the debate is about the government's programme. Let's not go back to who he told, especially if the person isn't here you're talking about. Please don't throw it out of the bench. We have the next line, the distinguished representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35328	Thank you very much. Mrs Sobol, you mentioned in your debate the crisis as the universal apology of the HDZ government for everything that is going on in Croatia and should be for accuracy, for the sake of Croatian citizens to say. Yes, the fact is, other European countries have negative GDP, but Croatia has the worst score in the first quarter except for three Baltic countries. If you compete with countries that have entered the European Union, Bulgaria, which has a minus 3.5%, Croatia has a minus 6.7%, the Czech Republic 3.4% more. All those countries that we can compare with have a much better result than Croatia and most regrettable of all is that Croatia is only 63% of GDP per capita when it is combined with the European Union. So we are neither near the European Union, and then it is pointless to speak in the presentation of the Government and compare us with Germany, which has twice as much GDP per capita as Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35329	Thank you. The answer is not a replica, the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35330	My colleague Maras, not a problem for Croatia, I did not enter even in my part of the exposure into the situation in neighbouring countries, in Germany, England, America or anywhere, it is a fundamental problem that we have said here on many occasions. The governments of those states did something because they estimated in time that the crisis was right, so to speak. And the problem in Croatia, these very people sitting here, I'm sorry to say, but the vast majority of you are from the old government, and you all in turn refused to even think that it was a crisis and that some things have to change in the country. Anti-recession measures, please. The new prime minister is talking about new anti-recession measures, and I don't think anyone knows what those ten anti-recession measures you said you'd do. You've only made one budget rebalance out of all of that. ... It's all right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35331	Thank you. Look, I'd like to beg you. Please, when you're talking about the replica first, you know what it means by yourself, so if you're going to tell me to be precise, then just be specific about it, that's one thing. And the other thing, the replica doesn't mean that everything can be said through that replica. He has to stick to the subject we're talking about. So, the next replica is the distinguished representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35332	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's my promise, I'll stick to the subject. Comrade Sobol, I will speak of what you have looked at the inventory, so it would be good if our new prime minister had come with an inventory that was all done, or what wasn't done. So I'm going to list some measures from the National Strategy on equalising opportunities for people with disabilities from 2007 to 2015. However, I would say something else even though my area is not foreign policy, that we do not yet have an ambassador to the United Nations, and we are in the Security Council. Otherwise, in the area of family action as defined in measure 5, which provides different forms of quality outside the institutional support of persons with disabilities and members of their families in order to facilitate freedom of choice, which also means the adoption of the Law on Personal Assistant for persons with the most difficult type and degree of disability. This law, according to a valid, binding strategy, should have been completed by 2008, where we are in the second half of 20009. So there are no leads, no drafts of that law, and of course no one will answer because there is no law. In the section "Life in the Community", measure 1 defining the provision of a harmonised approach to the provision of quality community support services, i.e. empowerment of persons with disabilities at local level, was the deadline for implementing this measure in 2007 and 2008. In chapter "Social Care and Pension Insurance" item 3, which envisions raising professional work in social care institutions, the deadline was 2007. Among other things, the problem of psychosocial rehabilitation was to be implemented and evaluated. Even here, there is no respected deadline for implementation, nor are the means for continuous work provided. Under point 1, develop a professional and analytical background...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35333	Thank you. Time!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35334	Here's what it would be like if you were doing an inventory...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35335	I'm begging you now. You were talking about the subject on the agenda, but Mrs. Sobol didn't say it and you didn't replicate it to her.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35336	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35337	Come on, I let you talk. Here you go, Mrs. Sobol, a reply to the replica. Please stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35338	Mr. Vice President. I was talking about the fact that I think the Prime Minister should have been here today instead of this cosmetic program, compared to the one he was supposed to come with an inventory of the state he's in. I'm still doing it, and this is part of that single resistor, so I'm saying...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35339	Dear MPs, you haven't talked about it, and you can't be given a replica of something you haven't talked about. But now answer the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35340	I believe that Mrs Škulić gave the right replica and she spoke only in that replica, the inventory, about the need for an inventory in one area. And if such an inventory was made, whether it's wider or narrow, I'm not interested in it right now. This inventory could already produce concrete measures by which the new government thinks to get Croatia out of the crisis. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35341	Thank you. Let me make one more point, please. The replica is given to the fundamental exposure of the person to whom the replica is given. So, what Mrs. Sobol said to that you should replicate, if you feel you should. You're the one who called the program and let's not play it like that right now. Let's move on with the debate. Dear Representative Željka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35342	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mrs Kosor, colleagues and colleagues of future ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In this next period ahead of us, most likely after today's vote in Croatia, introduces a new government and will be marked by the features of the new government and the new prime minister, I enter with slightly divided emotions. On the one hand, I really want you to do it. I really want you to succeed. I want you to succeed in solving the crisis, and I want you to succeed in what you did today for the first time seems to have called this House the right name, until recently it was denied, so if it's a small step, let it be commended, call it a recession. Indeed, the recession of Croatia, and the recession has much broader and more difficult implications than there is a crisis and therefore should be serious, should be concrete, should be rational. On the other hand, emotions, unfortunately, don't allow me to be optimistic. I'd like to be optimistic, but judging by my own experiences, judging by what we've been through together, you on the side of the position, we on the side of the opposition, I don't think there's much room for optimism, or maybe I'm wrong. Maybe I'm wrong. Perhaps the fact that you are Mrs. Kosor's wife will be a key element that will bring change to the Croatian government. But I will also not miss this opportunity to say that it is absolutely unnecessary for your colleagues today to try to appeal to us, and then to the general public to be merciful to the new prime minister who did not ask for this mercy at all. On the contrary, she came along, said I'm a woman, I'm a determined woman, I'll ensure change. And that's very nice of you. But it's not enough for me to go far enough for you to act as a tough woman. You must show that you are as Prime Minister or that as Prime Minister, you will be able to achieve that firmness, and it cannot remain in words. She's got to have a day-to-day experience. It must be defined through extremely difficult and unpopular reforms. Everything the government so far has been avoiding or merely trying to do on the surface. Some try to disqualify you for being loyal and loyal to your boss. I think it's the same typical female trait, as far as I'm concerned, positive. But being loyal and loyal is not enough to achieve the results all of Croatia expects, and so are we on this opposition side. Because you may not have been so loyal and loyal because you have often participated not only in silence and support as a loyal associate, but you have participated in creating an explosion of public spending which is, in fact, the greatest sin of this government and that of the Continuity Government of your first term. We've had the growth of gross social product. It's starting to raise money in the state budget. And instead of being rationally directed into development, it was scattered everywhere, rising to voters. According to one economic expert and analyst today, you've built irrational voters. And that's what I agree with her. It was spent and given where it should have been and where it was not often needed for political and not developmental economic or social reasons. But what I've been talking about so far has little to do with emotions. But let's start to analyze what you gave us as a document, what should confirm the quality of you as future presidents, as well as the entire government. The order in which you have compared the basic objectives, unfortunately, does not speak in favor of your opening words. It seems to me that in these fundamental objectives, priority has been given to some far less important things, some things that lead us to conclude that it is again a political trade, and that some of the key old ones have regained their place and their space under the rug. The first measure, the first fundamental objective that speaks of the preservation of macroeconomic stability and the creation of conditions for recovery and stable economic growth in line with the most unacceptable priorities, i.e. what ended up being some key reforms such as judicial reform and public administration, privatisation processes and strengthening the fight against corruption. Also, on the very beginning, there is the creation of assumptions for balanced and balanced development. Namely, these two are not at all a priority, these two nor a small priority goals at the same time if they are not put into a higher priority, they will generate new, public consumption. They also generated public spending and their place in view of where the stories ended up being contrary to the realization of the first objective. Some economic experts very simple and clearly suggest cutting public spending, cutting wages, cutting pensions, cutting social benefits, cutting healthcare rights, cutting everything because it's the only way out of the crisis. You see, I don't agree with them either. I think it's easy for them from that position to speak and say it all, because they recognize only their expertise and their own specialty, and they ignore that politics is also a skill, that politics is a kind of science and that in your place they certainly wouldn't behave. But at the same time, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, there's nothing else for you to do but cut. And if you want Croatia not to go bankrupt, if you want Croatia to slowly but surely take the development path you will have to sacrifice your popularity. Unfortunately, because of the missed opportunities in the past, you will have to go to cuttings and many will not like it. And then there's something I'm afraid of, and it's a new political crisis. I'm not afraid of disunity in HDZ, but I'm afraid you won't support those ministers or those ministers who want to implement the reforms. That's what's happened so far. And so far, there have been those who have at least been in the towers and quietly, if not publicly wanted reforms to be implemented, but had no support for it. They did not have support because, yet, a priority decision was made and that is what characterizes the HDZ government, a government which, unfortunately, is supported and some others have not made real progress. And finally something else important. The future prime minister, if she wants to succeed, will have to introduce order into this country. He'll have to deal with abuses, so a little tip, don't be angry. One of the first talks to be held should be conducted with a state attorney and should be conducted with a state auditor. But to ask them to bring out everything they know and what they found very honestly and openly, even when it comes to some HDZ officials. You need to make it clear and loud that they are obliged to do their job to the end, that they are obliged to eliminate all illegalities and all abuses to the end and that they will not be sanctioned and replaced. If you do not do so, if you do not show that you are ready to introduce order, that you are not afraid of sharp cuts to implement the reform, then perhaps how many prophesy will last you as a tetrax, as a single use. And unfortunately, not all women in this country will remain registered as the first prime minister to succeed, but as the prime minister who has put someone in charge to do the hardest and... And I really wish you luck, but I also warn you it won't be easy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/Intruder Capricorn: Thank you. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35343	Thank you. Just one intervention to say that we've also adopted State Audit reports and state's attorney's reports, that your club has also accepted those reports. You should have said that then. Thank you. We're now moving on to correcting incorrect allegations. First is the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35344	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Antunovic said that we've been trying to convince them of something all day, and in order to come up with some kind of mercy, to possibly give support to the new government. Well, fellow Members, we've been trying to convince you all day that this government has legitimacy, so it's not exactly what you're saying, and we have to react this way because you're making too many incorrect allegations and incorrect data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35345	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35346	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I understood this performance of yours really supported Mrs. Kosor and thank you for that. However, there is an important finding that you have said and that needs to be corrected. You said that we were coming up, that it was coming up, so this government, and also here, Mrs. Kosor, we were giving up to voters, we were wasting where and where it wasn't and we were creating irrational voters. Where did we spend it? For the pensioners? Well, that was our debt. For the defenders? Also our debt. For health care? So what can we do, where can we spend, if we don't want health care? For education? To return refugees? To encourage employment? For reforms? Therefore, it was not spent where it was not necessary and it was not necessary and it was all in line with rational needs and existing rational voters who actually gave votes as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35347	Thank you. Dear representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35348	It's an incorrect quote from a colleague who said we were looking for some kind of mercy for the prime minister. I think in HDZ who seeks mercy, then only asks for mercy from the dear God, not from your side because the lady has shown that by her work, ability and knowledge can truly perform this function that is intended for her. It's also incorrect that it's not enough to be loyal and loyal to your boss. Well, I think if you've worked at all and someone's your boss, then it's very important that you be loyal and be a good associate like Mrs. Kosor. It's also incorrect to raise voters and create so-called. irrational voters. So imagine that irrational voters voted for HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35349	Thank you. And the esteemed representative of Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35350	I also wanted to refer to a statement asking for mercy here. It is true that at one point Mrs. Kosor addressed women, and why should we women be hypocritical and advocate gender equality and the need to place women on greater functions, and then, at the same time, I did not experience your address to Mrs. Antunovic as support, but rather different as a series of expressed doubts and very strange recommendations. And another correction, that the measures are not taken by priority. On the contrary, they are quite priority-oriented, but it was neither a target nor a reference to Ms. Kosor's address, especially in this second address when she said she would fight specifically for judicial reform and against corruption. So you're wrong about the priorities Mrs. Kosor spoke of.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35351	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35352	Thank you. My colleague Antunovic said, quote: "The recession of the Croatian drama." And indeed, the economic downturn in the first quarter is 6.7%, which is the largest in a long time. If that's why the former prime minister, if we can already declare him an ex, went away, to his credit, he realized he was running the wrong policy that led the country into recession. This morning, counterpart Bagaric very well-intentionedly quoted Sanader as saying that he had left to boost democracy. If and for that reason he left, it was his honor, he realized that he was an obstacle to strengthening democracy in this country, and that was very commendable. I wish my colleague Kosor every success. I believe he'll do his best. He'll do a lot if he realizes at this point that he's no female Diocletian, no master, no God, but one or one of us who's been given a very difficult task. And this country is filled with a suitcase of masters, gods, emperors and similar characters.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35353	Thank you. Replica's reply, distinguished representative Zeljka Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35354	He says fellow Jurjevic, quoting me as the recession of Croatia. Yeah. It is true, the recession of Croatia, we have been talking about this for a long time and this may not be the right time to talk about it widely. But facing this fact can help the government succeed and help Croatian citizens or fail. Personally, I am still the opposition, and I am not very interested in the success of the HDZ government, but I am interested in the results that the citizens of this country will feel. And so far, citizens feel nothing but trouble. Citizens feel their income is falling from tourism, citizens feel that they have more and more unemployed, citizens feel that their standard of living is seriously threatened, citizens feel that they are not able to teach children well and well enough because they do not earn enough to survive them. And that's why my exposure was well understood by one who recognized that in my speech there were much more doubts, emotions that we call skepticism or doubt, than there are optimism. And I'd like to, I'd really like to beat the recession, start economic development, and have my suspicions, my reservations, my skepticism turn into optimism. And the political struggle will continue, we have something to lead her on. Just let our citizens live and work, and everything else will be somehow.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35355	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debate. It is now up to the honourable representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35356	Mr. Vice President, Madam Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Let me say a few words, not without some discomfort because of the tones that we have imposed on this one country for every important topic, that we are trying to do with jokes, shootings and jokes, creating, I believe, an even greater discomfort with citizens in Croatia who can hardly understand that what we are about to say to each other is more important to us here and what we are going to do, than we are about the citizens of this country. But I don't want to touch it. Allow something that seems reasonable to me and that seems important to me for a serious conversation. First, listening to the speaker's presentation and listening and reading this programme, and even more listening to the debate today in the Assembly, it is clear that about one of the key concepts that certainly best illustrate the situation in Croatia, about the concept of crisis we can hardly agree and agree on. As long as that is the case, what we have in Croatia today as a serious problem cannot be solved. There's no point in one saying that the crisis is, and the other proving it, and the other saying that the crisis isn't. I am, of course, without any indignation, and even less for some narrow political reasons, unfortunately I am accommodating most of the citizens in this country who don't need statistics and extracting numbers as to who it suits to realize that we are truly as a state and as a society are in a serious crisis. And this crisis is seen as an economic crisis. We can list here data on how we are and when and during what period we had, say, how many unemployed. '99. In Croatia, there were half a million unemployed people, 357 thousand were recognised, and another 180 thousand worked were not paid. Five hundred thousand people were unemployed in Croatia. Every year between 70 and 80,000 people were sent to retirement. We've had a difficult situation and a difficult situation. '99. For years we had a country that had a negative growth rate, a country that was politically isolated, and yet we managed to make serious political and reform cuts and provide 7 fat years for which after these reforms lived. I mean, it's no problem to have a problem, the problem is not to admit the problem and not look for a solution to that problem. And I don't think of any of the people who are proposed here as Prime Ministers or in advance of declaring neither incompetent nor hostile, incompetent, nor immoral, or in any way inappropriate to the conduct of this duty. The same is certainly true of the candidate for prime minister, or prime minister. I find it even more eloquent to mention the sex of a candidate, because I don't think it has anything to do with her being a good or less good or bad prime minister, or prime minister. But what's important. It is important to understand that apart from the economic crisis in which Croatia is located, we are recording serious disturbances in all possible sectors. We have a severe and profound social crisis. In doing so, I don't just think about institutions, national capacities. I think of a whole series of other important elements that make the atmosphere of a country as a social, well-organized and capacitated, to ensure their citizens a quality of life. I think about the demographic crisis which is a terrible problem for Croatia, and if any country has a problem, then the demographic problem in Croatia is the most pronounced of all European countries. If Croatia had developed at the birth rate with all the migrations it had developed as in the 19th century, we would now have 12 million inhabitants. This drastic decline of the working-active population, the ageing of the Croatian population, are problems that will await not this government that we are talking about now, but this or any other government cannot bear in mind the problems that, which are being seen, which are long-term serious for Croatia as a country. We have serious moral problems. We are not the only country facing this kind of problem, but our problems are problems that must and can be solved when it comes to government as the top of government and the top of the pyramid, from which social trust and capital are beginning to be created in one country, belief in institutions, in the state as an institution at all, but also the trust of citizens with each other. General thieving, the belief that comes from the legendary and scary who has been bailing, the non-processing of crime, the non-processing of obvious examples of corruption, the opposite of encouraging corruption are real problems that talk about the deep crisis that Croatia is in. One of the biggest problems I think is the problem or the most serious elements of that crisis is the political crisis in this country. Denying the existence of such a crisis by creating false unity, the North Korean manifestations of unity as this Mr. Jarnjak would say at the flash of democracy when he says who is for, who is against, whether there is anyone abstention, and that would be the kind of thing that is interesting to one party, but it demonstrates actually the lack of understanding of the key element for solving, which is strengthening all possible democratic institutions etc. I don't belong to sanaderonostalgics, and I think it's a wonderful and good occasion where we found ourselves to be serious and that's... for Mrs. Kosor's proposal to draw the line. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now that she's alone and alone, she'll be more than she thinks. When it is found, let it be tried, no one will amnestize it, nor will it be any excuse for the future to tell this people and these citizens of the country, where are we now? No one's gonna rip your head off for that. The first thing we should do to not only stay on the assessment of the situation is certainly objective if we cannot agree on it, objectively looking at the situation in which Croatia is presently, objectively objectively. Not that we're catastrophic, not that we're sticking Noah's head in the sand. It's the first step we have to take. The second step is to create a good political atmosphere. If we recognize the crisis in one of the elements, we can solve it. This political atmosphere assumes then partnership, but not all of you can come to me, it assumes the creation of consensus and not just goals, although it is not in the Croatian society of true consensus. You're going to have to make serious big reforms. Mrs. Kosor here is an example of whether you will have the courage to raise one such question, such as the abolition of 583 municipalities and cities and counties in this country that cost the citizens of this country irrationally and terribly expensively. I can see the time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35357	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35358	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With the abundance of good wishes that Mr. Vidovic has expressed here, I must conclude that it is the least agreed by the fat majority of the present MPs that there is no political crisis in Croatia, there is no political crisis, and it is not today when we believe that we will accept a new government. The reason is that within the framework and basic police agreements, not today and now, but also two years ago a consensus was reached through the programmes that enable it, and we do not doubt that it will continue to be so. In addition, these people sitting in government today are not people who are the product of political trade, but responsible people with knowledge and experience and education. Croatia is not an island and 6.9% of the rebalancing of the gross social product of Germany or almost 9 Slovenia and our six and seven is nothing more, but it is less, but it is the reality of turning to both this part of Europe and the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35359	Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35360	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Madam Prime Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. For me, the key question in this debate is whether this new government, which is just not new, can be trusted? Is this government a guarantee that the Croatian people will get better? Does this government know and can do anything to launch this much-needed development in this country? My opinion is that the answer to all three questions is negative. This government is not a government that can be trusted, this government is not a guarantee of the prosperity of society and of a better life. Why? Because it simply represents the continuity of the current government that has brought us into this situation where the country and its citizens are located and brought us here. So the same government represents us, that is, the continuing government that brought us into this situation. It is painful, ladies and gentlemen, that the economic and political situation in which we are actually the result of the six-year rule of the HDZ. This country is over-indebted, this country has been sold out, the economy is on its knees, we have November boycotts, we have strikes, the standard has fallen, the people are in loans, we have a blockade of negotiations with the European Union. And here's a few days ago, we have one exclusive. We have an exclusive that the whole world is laughing at us. I have to tell you that I just got back from the OSCE annual assembly and that my colleague and I were invited by the president... Soarea, who asked us, asked us to explain, what is happening in Croatia? [[You don't understand a word.]] What's going on? He asked us to address an audience of 700 people from all over the world and tell us what happened in Croatia and why the current prime minister resigned without any explanation. You can imagine what it was like for us. Yeah. We chose the old one, that silence was gold. And otherwise, I don't know what any of you in our situation would do. The painful truth is another thing, which is that you have no visions or knowledge of how to solve problems in this country, how to ensure the development and necessary reforms, how to ensure a higher standard of built, higher wages, higher pensions. It's a painful truth. You didn't know that until now. If you knew, you would have already done so and there is no reason to believe that something in the future is going to change. For the past six years, they have marked the affairs, marked disorientation, head-to-sand, enormous banks and private capital, corruption, and you have proved to be an expert team for promotions and repositioning after the affair. You haven't really had strategic goals or priorities in six years. For six years, you have no solution to the most important issues in the country. I believe you won't have them even now after this reposition. For six years you have shown no interest in how the Croatian people live. Mrs. Kosor says the world has hit a crisis. Well, thank you very much for the information. We've known it in the SDP club for 18 months and we keep warning about it. You also tried to explain how the people in Croatia live. You gentlemen act as if only you do not know in this country how the Croatian people actually live because the Croatian people live really far for you. You were six years old and you didn't do anything, but you did it for yourself, you did it for yourself. He says "Washington Post" that he did for himself and it's pretty much a lot of secret accounts with over $500 million. The Croatian people may once ask you a question about who knows. I think the strategic goal should be to make the Croatian people live better. Someone says it's NATO. All right, let's get into NATO, that's fine. But my parents' pensions haven't increased since they joined NATO, and with it, they can buy less and worse alive. Says someone in Croatia has money, says savings in banks have grown 9 billion kuna in a year. Well, yes, the people are rarely smarter than those who guide them. The people know that things aren't going well and they're sure that the existential old man, followed by the general fall of standards, forced them to reduce civil consumption and we heard that it fell by 14%. I think six years of acting on the principle of a drunk millionaire finally came to collect and that's the whole truth. I'm going back to the question of whether this new old government can be trusted. I think that in fact no one trusts you anymore, that neither the European Union trusts you anymore, but you have no courage to tell the people that things really are. Today we hear that we are at the threshold of the European Union, until yesterday we were at the door. The truth is it is likely that we can say goodbye to the European Union until further notice. But you do not have the courage to tell the people the truth that the circumstances of the very serious institutional crisis of the system occurred and that Croatia is most likely facing a financial breakdown of the state budget and that we are most likely in one of the most severe crises since this country's independence. There's a lot of reasons why you can't be trusted, all you need to do is remind yourself of how you've put priorities on the artillery logs, national proms, budget rebalances, salaries that you're going to touch, and you won't. ... Yeah, it's not easy for you to hear. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] A few words to sum up and say, the new government is actually nothing new to the new time of the same people. [[The speech room is off, you can't hear it.]] And in the end, I'll be done with the next one. Mrs. Kosor, you have invited us women of the Assembly to give you support because you are a woman. I have to tell you that you won't get my vote just because you're a woman and it has nothing to do with female solidarity. We at the SDP club hold that a woman should be in a position of power because she's capable, because she wants to change the state of society, because she's brave, because she has the energy to change things. And one more thing. You supported the Law on Medical Aided Insemination Discriminating Women. Then where was your female solidarity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35361	Thank you. Seven corrections, one replica. Mr. Representative Kresimir Gulic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35362	I don't think it's easy for our colleague. It's really hard for her. This much sarcasm, this much misery, I really need to deal with it. My colleague, I will correct one of your incorrect allegations that this government cannot be trusted. To this government, voters expressed their will in the elections. ... They are the same to this government because in this government, the Prime Minister will be Mrs Kosor, who was the holder of the list of the 1st electoral unit where HDZ was given 5 terms of office, so Mrs Kosor is also trusted by all voters. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And when we say you keep warning about the crisis. Well, you've been warning of a crisis, gentlemen, with your anti-recession measures that you've offered to bring this country to a collapse of 15 billion you've offered, and you're calling for a lot of elections. Well, it's weird to me that someone wants the election so badly and says the state is collapse. With this you are just proving that the state is not in a collapse, that the state is still well run because that is why we would like to come to power because you know that it is not how you want to force this Croatian public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35363	Second correction by Mr Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35364	Thank you very much. Well, I'm really surprised by the exposure of my friend, I can say from Mrs. Jerkovic's SDP because this is a disaster to show the situation in Croatia. I know she doesn't think so because I emphasized it. Romana Jerkovic doesn't think so, but since she already says she can't trust this government, I can tell dear Romana also before the 2003 elections and after the 2003 elections. The SDP said Croatia will be in isolation, that Europe will not accept it, will be a disaster. What happened? Croatia has been accepted in Europe, in the world accepted, we have been admitted to NATO, we have problems with Slovenia for the sake of the European Union precisely with Slovenia with which SDP had the best relations. They played SDP tennis leaders with Slovenian leaders, gave them 166 square kilometres of territory to have good relations with Europe. We and Europe have good relations and we will have with Slovenia but we will not give 166 square kilometers of Croatian territory.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35365	Yes, they played tennis and we made a mistake in the Parliament because we beat them five pieces in the match between the Croatian Parliament and the Slovenian Parliament, so we should have lost after all. ... It's a goal. It's a goal. It's a goal. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35366	Representative Jerkovic did not say any too much in this speech except in her parrot rhetoric, which she repeated only one and the same and this government did nothing. I'll do it again so let's try to remember or ask one of your own, which is the difference of this government compared to yours. Watch out, 2 billion debts from your government came to the charge because you did not respect collective agreements, the material rights of your social partners. There are over 120,000 423 people employed compared to that, I'm talking about your government. Unemployment has been reduced by 104 thousand, the average net salary has increased by 30%, the minimum wage by 55%. The fee for the unemployed has increased, you know, drastically compared to that of your 1,000 kuna, that it's 70% in the first three months, and 50% in the difference. So try to add up and see if this government did anything compared to your 400 thousand unemployed, so don't let me start you off with a spectrum of your social problems because in 2002 you had the biggest crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35367	And the next correction, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35368	Well, there she is, an unwarranted colleague, claiming that we don't care about the people, which I'm sure is not true. In fact, very often, in dozens of congregations we were with the people, listening to the people, so it's definitely not true. But here, a colleague of the hard people is often smarter than those who lead them, and this is what the people realized in 2000 and 2003, punishing them exactly in a way that they could be replaced. Clearly, he punished them for their huge affairs, Victor Lenac, the River Bank, the INA robbery, the sale of hotels to party friends, that is, taking the poor and giving the rich.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35369	And Mrs. Representative Marija Buric Pejcinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35370	Thank you very much. So here's what I'm going to regret saying is that I don't really know if I'd fix the beginning, the middle or the end because it was all filled with incorrect allegations. I'll name just a few, you don't have strategic definitions, you haven't done anything for six years, there's no entry into the European Union. This is how you talk only when you don't have the arguments. We have never been closer to membership in the European Union. Your parents, you mentioned pensions, must have had a better pension today than they had in 2003, and on the strategic documents based on the government's work I think you can consult them and then maybe correct the next speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35371	Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic, next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35372	I am correcting the incorrect quote of colleague Romana who said that Croatia is facing a financial breakdown. My fellow Romana, I don't know what you have in common with the economy at all, but through your rhetoric and your exposure I can see for sure that you don't have much in common, but if you followed a little bit and the press then you'd listen to our governor who was named the world's best governor and his words that he said didn't show that this is not the state's situation because the economy really isn't the way some politicians want to show it. Therefore, we are not facing a financial breakdown, we are in an economic crisis as well as the whole world. But it's not clear to me that you as a young woman can say every word that's directed against this government like this and speak with such impatience. It's really embarrassing for you and a few MPs you want to present a state that is absolutely not true. And refrain from it because the whole world is in recession. And we know how we're going to get out of this crisis and how we're going to start an economy. Open up companies if you know how to master and how to hire people. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35373	Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35374	Well, you certainly do. I give 200 personal incomes every month, unlike you who only take.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35375	I'm a colleague of Lucic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35376	I give, and you open the company to yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35377	Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica. Franjo!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35378	Well, here's after a series of catastrophic allegations that Mrs. Romano cited, I only look back on this last one that was really under the belt, and this is about Mrs. Kosor saying that you voted for her because she's a woman. Among other things, and because the woman wanted to sensitize you about what we're always talking about, we keep mentioning gender equality, it doesn't seem like it should be mentioned at all, and it would be much better if she hadn't mentioned that she was a woman at all. And she wanted to sensitize you in some way and she was completely under the belt the way you gave your last comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35379	Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35380	You're a scientist, and it's incomprehensible that as a scientist, you claim something that has nothing to do with the fact. [[Specially enabled.]] You know what a comparison is, you know what an analyst is, etc. A law on medically assisted insemination, when compared with other countries in Europe and when you look at what they have, what we have, etc., in no way discriminates against women. Also here, the present vice president also expressed her position and contributed to the improvement of the law, and the more liberal in no case means, in any case, that it is always more affirmative for women. So let us therefore be very careful in putting these attitudes forward, especially if we have not really studied matter and entered it to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35381	And the replica, Madam Representative Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35382	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Jerkovic, I understand your concern that the proposed members and members of the government we are discussing today and the programme that we received at the introduction actually brings nothing new, that this is continuity. And that is the least Croatia needs today, the continuity we have had over the past year and a half and a denial of negative trends in society. Among other things, you said saving is growing and that it's one of the main arguments of our past and current government. Citizens' savings are growing. However, the question arises who saves in Croatia. Is that what saves 60% of employees who receive wages below the average salary, and the average salary cannot meet their minimum needs. Is this what saves those who have huge excesses in current accounts, who are in charge of more than half of their incomes? Who's saving? Those who have withdrawn from the stock market, who are no longer speculating and make significant sums of money without work, on which they do not pay taxes and have now transferred money from the stock market to high-interest banks, while at the same time raising interest on the economy and on citizens. It's the truth about saving in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35383	Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go. Ah, yes, the answer to the replica. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35384	Thank you. You're right, fellow Zgrebec. The continuity of the government means only one thing, and that's that we're going to get worse. And I'm gonna do the parrot one more time. Student boycotts, bad standard, country block compared to the European Union. 50,000 unemployed this year. Says my colleague, I'm a scientist. I should talk about some exact figures. So where are you going to be more specific? Here you go, 50,000 unemployed, and everything points to it being even worse. You wonder who's saving. One thing's for sure. One thing we can be sure of. This or earlier government, and to assume that this one will continue, is not and will not save. The armored BMWs, the facades of the ministries. A total of over 13 billion kunas. But when we prayed in front of the MPs' club to pass a law that would provide for all those who had lost their jobs, to ensure their prolonging then you did not accept our proposal. You said we could only appeal to banks. So what did you do? Did you appeal to the banks? Yes, you've made a great appeal. All the banks raised interest on loans. Look out, even one Serbia managed to stop the growth of interest, and we failed to do so. So much for my disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35385	Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35386	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Prime Minister, members of the future government. So that there's no confusion in this debate, maybe some things got lost and I'll say it again. Just because we're skeptical of the new prime minister doesn't mean she's complaining about the old prime minister. It's a good thing he left because it was the least said by a failed government led by a failed prime minister. And there's no disaster I'd agree with my colleagues from HDZ because Croatia finally has the sun, the truth is toothy. It's not easy for you to know, because everything you've done so far you've been referring to Ivo Sanader, Dr. Ivo Sanader. He was a leader, he was a teacher, he was a great neimar. I remember those words no more than a month ago from my colleagues on the other side. And that leader, the teacher, and the nemare are gone. The best score since the last ten years of Croatian history was given by a journalist who wrote. “Tudjman died for his Croatia, Racan died for his Croatia, and Dr Ivo Sanader raised his hands from his Croatia.” Did he raise his hands, did he escape, did he leave the sinking ship, did he strategically move away to a more favourable place, we do not know any more favourable position. We'll probably find out in the next period, but it doesn't matter anymore. That's the past. And what's the situation, that's what we're interested in, this Sanader state that he's been together with all of you sitting here in front of us and you on the left and on my side, creating. I'm not going to quote the classics of political thought here, I'm not going to quote the Nobels from the economy, but I'm going to quote your people, the businessmen who are connected to the ruling structures. I'm saying, maybe they're not Nobels, maybe they're not political thinkers, but they're very familiar with the situation that's happening in Croatia today. And when you correct me, you will correct them. So, Nadan Vidosevic, president of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, said several months ago about the state of the country. “We drank and ate our children and our grandchildren.” He didn't think about previous governments, he was talking primarily in these six years of the current government. The same day that Prime Minister Sanader resigned 2 hours earlier came news with a statement from HT Management President Mudrinic, who said something more terrible, and said "Our most successful people will seek their future" and now watch out for "in Slovakia, Serbia-Montenegro" adding "unless some radical measures are taken." Did you create and lead the Croatian state for 14 years to make the future for the Croatian man Serbia-Montenegro. If that was your intention, then it's an honor. Or in that policy, you've gone hungry somewhere. You didn't take all our well-intentioned advice, you laughed. For all four years we've been listening to Racan's government, it's the Ministers of Racan's fault. Here's my fault. Let's make it Linic's fault, too. Let it be Mato Church, former Minister of Finance. But you never, ever, in your debates, remembered your government, your prime minister, your ministers, so that you might have said whether we, somewhere, are the current authorities somewhere wrong. No, but when the ship started sinking, the mice started to leave the water. You were the first to be abandoned by the economy, and then the Prime Minister himself. The main problem of this Croatian state is that of the left as it has. We can discuss social democracy, but the fundamental problem of Croatia is that there is not one normal European right-wing conservative government, because what you are leading is a pure socialist policy with a dose of irresponsibility. An irresponsible policy of social giving that's gonna get in our heads. This is written in all HDZ governments, and even in the starting points, you are also calling for communism. But you didn't have to take what was worst in this communism. For the first time today since the term of office of Mrs. Kosor, who I wish best for in future work, we have heard that we are in crisis quoting: "We are deeply aware that the situation is extremely serious." How is this for the first time today on the sidelines of the speech that we are in a crisis and we need radical measures that the truth is not available in this programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This is a nice list of wishes, prescribed from the former programme, so we also have the Pelješki bridge, we have all possible highways, including this Mršić sub-level which is open looks exclusively for pre-election campaign. We have a Danube-Sava channel that will never be excavated, but a colleague said a few months ago that the canal would be dug up thanks to the neimaru of Evey Sanader. So come on, buddy, now tell me, will Ivo Sanader dig up the Danube-Sava channel? Mrs. Kosor is in an extremely unfavourable position. On the one hand, great energy will have to consume to restrain its patriarchs as Sanader himself beat them in accordance with Marquez's Fall Patriarch, the patriarchs themselves see that the autumn is approaching and will become even more inconsistencies in their demands. And yet, it's being refurbished for construction land, and what's left of public procurement, and all the luck, so the money's less, and then the less commissions will go into private pockets. And on the other hand, Mrs. Kosor will have to decide whether to continue the policy she led as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, which means that she must be aware of the responsibility that the hole is being created even bigger or will change politics and at the same time question her political credibility, with Ivo Sanader surviving his Salto Mortales with The Hague and the extradition of Croatian Generals to The Hague and the rest, with Mrs. Kosor having to carefully assess between these 2 moves. For 9 years I have argued and we have had a sharp controversy, on my part it was never personal, I believe neither Mrs Kosor's system of care for Croatian defenders, that it was not sustainable, not because I wanted to, but because it cannot be spent more than it is earned. It's a simple policy and a simple thought. But with my views I've been repeating for nine years, and time has shown me the right, I don't expect confirmation from the other side. I was just doing what would be a Republican conservative policy in America. If I was a conservative, then what were you in this segment, and not just in that segment, but in a whole series of others? As for the success of this government, I believe that it will not be much more unsuccessful than the previous ones, because it will indeed be difficult, but I am not optimistic because the economy cannot get out those who contributed to the sinking of this economy themselves, and let us remember a few months ago and unserious bidding on statements whether the economy, GDP, will grow 4 or 2% while the expert public laughed at such statements by ministers, nor can corruption be accounted for by those who have created a well-fated corrupt octopus in Croatia. I am not optimistic, but I trust the endurance of the Croatian people, I believe this HDZ experiment will survive as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35387	Thank you. Corrections, Ms. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35388	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I could almost correct Mr. Pancic's entire debate because he wasn't even discussing the new government, the proposal, but he was discussing the government of Dr. Ivo Sanader and said a failed government led by a failed prime minister. I really don't know where you get so much hatred for this government and the future government. And I'll just remind you to remember what the successes of this government are, Dr. Ivo Sanader? Joining NATO, the Security Council, we are before joining the European Union, we are implementing judicial reforms, we have started a major fight against corruption, we have the largest increase in gross social product in the region at this time, the highest wages and pensions in the region at the moment. We paid the pensioners back. If you remember, we paid back the debt to the professors and the debt, the debt you signed and left in 2003. So we can't talk about one failed government. Surely the situation is serious, but with so much irony and cynicism, let's not speak at the moment when we're giving a mandate to the new government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35389	Next correction, Ms. Representative Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35390	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, I'm correcting a few, actually just one of several incorrect allegations from Mr Pancic, in which he says, ultimately, that he will be in an extremely unfavourable position. On the contrary, Mr. Pancic. Our prime minister has never been in such an awkward position, just as here, bearing witness to her 6 years in place and vice-president of the government and the minister, enjoying today the greatest support of the parliamentary majority, and you will continue to feel this support for all of us because you have shown your determination, ability, charisma, just as former Prime Minister Ferrua Beatrice Merino has said that each government should have a wife at the head of its government because it has an exceptional amount of patience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35391	Mr. Representative Berislav Roncevic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35392	In his presentation, Mr Pancic said at one point, he unfortunately connected the late and late Croatian president, Dr Franjo Tudjman and Mr Racan, and said they died for Croatia. The only fact that connects those two unfortunately deceased persons is the fact that they died and suffered badly in their illness, which, of course, we must remember with regret. Politically, however, do not connect them. Dr Tudjman wanted Croatia, unfortunately under the chairmanship of your party asked questions and came out of the hall when voting on the decision on political independence of Croatia and the Declaration of sovereignty. Those two things are unrelated, I have to remind you of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35393	Next correction, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35394	Your colleague Pancic said several incorrect allegations, but he certainly stuck to my ear that you had an incorrect assumption, that you had irresponsible and unsatisfactory investments, and among other things, highways and you mentioned so-called. The skinny highway. The one where he was setting up that brick won't work, but I am pleased to see that the 2009 government programme includes a sub-biological ipslon. It means the highway to Koprivnica and the highway to Bjelovar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35395	Replications. Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35396	My colleague Pancic said we don't regret Prime Minister Sanader. Here I may be one of those who is still somewhere in the bottom of his soul regrets and quietly suffers what he has gone because I can no longer ask him what is with, where are the cups from the Split market, and I thought I'd get a chance, but he's gathered a tuna and he's gone what he would say to me in Split, and what I'm going to do now. I have no one to ask but myself and all of you rhetorically. Here it is bid, the worst thing that is done is, what is trying to share, what is trying to divide the citizens of Croatia through political parties and ask the question of whose is this Croatia. Well, here are over two of the late presidents of HDZ and SDP, which is a tragedy to do, I don't think it's in anyone's interest, so it bids on the territory. I could talk about ZERP and why ZERP didn't apply. Is that also a denial in some sense from our territory and the more I listen to this kind of god-awful correction of the allegations by HDZ, I think. I knew, I'm still thinking about what got Sanader killed, and I'm getting closer to the idea that maybe he got away from his agents who were probably more harassing him than they're harassing us with this kind of discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35397	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Josip Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35398	My colleague Jurevic, if you had asked me what the successes of Prime Minister Sanader were, I might have remembered the NATO alliance, because indeed for his term, we entered NATO even though the process had begun earlier, but it doesn't matter. But these 30 seconds after the mention of the Brodosplit affair, I wrote almost 10 more in a flash. And I'm going to miss Prime Minister Sanader, too, maybe more than the HDZ colleagues, because who's going to answer our questions besides what's with Brodosplit, which is with the Liburni Hotel, which is with the "sun Hvar," which is with the trucks, which is with the opera in Verona, and with Plivina's sale, which is with... So we stopped at Imostroy, so it means the island of knowledge, so what about public procurement starts with highways, so we can go to any other infrastructure project where prices suddenly go up 30 to 50, and somewhere 100%. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] So what's about giving up ZERP as one state-of-the-art state-of-the-art. He crossed ZERP along with coalition partners overnight. Well, then, what about the Golf Law? I have to say that one of the questions I would ask him is whether he plans to stop this unprincipled SDP and HNS policy in the city of Dubrovnik, where one of the great golf tourism projects will put this unnatural government aside.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35399	Fellow MPs, please give the topic is the presentation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the vote of confidence of the Government. We had a debate on the resignation of the Prime Minister and then, within that debate, it was to be cited, not to return what is not now thematic. Please stick to the subject. Let's stick to the subject. Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35400	My colleague Pancic, I will not miss President Sanader, but at the same time I think that Mrs Kosor has an advantage over him, because she has never promised what he promised as party leader, and I think it is a good thing that today was the first time she said that Croatia is in crisis and that her government's policy will focus precisely on solving the crisis. Until now, it's been denied, or it's just been said that we're in a crisis, but we're already coming out of it. We haven't gotten right into it yet, we're getting out of the crisis. It has been denied that the budget that we made only in December is actually going to be a budget of a few days or a few months, the budget rebalance has been denied, and now we hear that we're going to go with two more budget rebalances. I think that's good. I think it's good to go now with the rebalance as much as we can in this short time and that we need to make a real budget rebalance right at the beginning of autumn which would actually be the basis for the 2010 budget. What I see as a problem, and what Mrs. Kosor didn't say here, she didn't say what instruments we're going to resist the crisis with.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35401	Replica response, MP Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35402	Indeed, colleague Zgrebec, Mrs. Kosor has the advantage. We'll see if he can use it, make a move away from the behavior, so far Prime Minister Sanader's behaviour, whether he'll impose his style of work, whether he'll tell these patriarchs in the government that they can't behave the way they are, whether he'll now say that public procurement will go exclusively according to the law, according to the most favourable bidder and the most favourable price. In this way, it will also show whether her statement on harsh address with and more severe fight against corruption and organised crime has been spoken honestly or has been said so in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35403	Patriarch fellow Pancic. Memories of the autumn patriarch. This is about the Patriarch's spring. Mr. Representative Damir Cain, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35404	Mr. Pancic, I almost fully agree with you. However, poor Croatia if some of those mentioned are our authority and moral role models. Whether it is those who have participated in the conversion in the presidential elections in their own time, whether it is those who have performed the privatisation, such as the Croatian Telecom. That's a problem we're not talking about. We call power. I may have been the most irrevocable authority, but on the other hand, I feel like we're amnesting tycoons overnight. And the tycoons, with power, robbed this people. If we want to get this country out of crisis, it's not enough as Mrs. Kosor says to save on cards or your colleagues on facades. But we must return the 500 million dollars from Austria, Switzerland, Liechtenstein, mentioned by "Washington Post" if this government does so, then this government succeeds, if it doesn't, it will end up as the former authorities. It is equally necessary to carry out a conversion review, and only then will we be able to move forward. One word like we're going to have to share the burden with our people, and so are those who were willing to rob this people, and they have to tell us what they were in the '90s and how they got to the first million dollars. Until then, these gentlemen will take care of themselves, they will take care of the property of foreign owners, they will not take care of the people, and so much should they not be amnesty, nor amnesty.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35405	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35406	I don't know how you found in my words the amnesty of these people, I clearly quoted them because they came out of the same nest, because it's about people who are connected to HDZ structures, power structures. And when some HDZ people say that we drank and ate everything we own and everything that will possess future generations, it best speaks of themselves, because they took part in it, and it best speaks of the state in which the HDZ has been in and what it has done all these years.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35407	Ms. Representative Biljana Borzana.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35408	Mr. Pancic, you've been very nice in counting the projects that HDZ has promised that have nothing to do with reality, which have nothing to do with the possibilities of our budget. But apparently this lack of reality is seen from all the steps today, from the correction of an incorrect quote. The MPs here see the culprits for everything that goes wrong in everyone except themselves and their government. So that's one elemental lack of touch with reality. But you know what they say, you can cheat on people sometimes, and you can't cheat on people all the time. So far, HDZ has proved to be a successful formula to tell the people what the people like to hear, but it definitely doesn't last forever.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35409	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35410	That's right, co-worker. The HDZ will need to move ahead of its own threshold after this. Melo is enough in other parties, so for 6 years it was Racan's government's fault for everything in Croatian history. Which is why I've mentioned Sanader several times, and it's already being treated like evil by one of the patriarchs. And I've heard here for six years that all of our misfortunes are Racan and his government. If we'd been fighting, we wouldn't have fought, we'd been trying with replicas, not as cowardly as the Prime Minister left, correcting the wrong allegations of correcting other people's opinions. Yes, gentlemen, we are convinced that you do not manage Croatia well and that is what the current state shows. Of course the election will say what the citizens think. And that doesn't mean the opposition has to agree with you. And that when he criticises you and something that is pure crime, it just says that we are responsible for Croatian citizens and that we love this Croatian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35411	Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go. No, I asked you to pick up the plate after the basic exposure was completed, so I can't unfortunately please you. And the same as the gentleman on the other side. Mr. Mršić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35412	There goes the time from the beginning. Okay. Dear Vice-President, respected prime minister, respected candidates and candidates for ministers in the Croatian government. When we discussed the last budget, I then debated and said the next sentence. You put your head in the sand, and when you get it out of the sand, you won't like what you see. Only one of you didn't like it, it's Dr. Ivo. And he said, I won't play with you anymore. He left you in the sand, and they left. Where's Dr. Ivo? We don't know. Why did he leave? We don't know. Where'd he go? We don't know. All we know is that he's gone. He didn't even have the courage to come here with us Assembly MPs to forgive, who we talked to for 6 years, and who we were either from the position of the authorities or from the position of opposition wanted well to this Croatia. Mrs. Kosor came before us today and she said, "Here I call first of all my colleagues to support me, because this is the first time Croatia will have a prime minister." That's a fact. I also heard Mrs. Kosor say she would manage both the party and the state with a firm woman's hand. And just from those words I started reading the program. I really meant in the program that was presented today to see that woman's handwriting. However, I remained disappointed. There's no women's handwriting. It seems Mrs. Kosor that these men around you have slowed you down to actually make one program as deserves by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that is, Croatia. What you've offered us could have been done with a little manicurist. Because when he compares what Doctor Ivo didn't even say goodbye to us, he suggested a year and a half ago, it's almost nothing different than what you're proposing today. The only difference is that the deadlines have been lifted, it's different that some important things have been removed and it's different that it's not going to be from 2008 to 2011 but it's going to be from 2009 to 2011. It would be good for you to carry out the actual handover of the authorities, as the Law on the handover of the Government also says, that each minister will personally hand over to you a report of what has been made in the past year and a half to be really balanced and compared to what the Government of Ivo Sanader has offered here as a program and to see where it has come from. For example, what does he give up on? It gives up one goal that said Croatia should be allowed to join the club 40 most competitive countries. It's a goal that's no longer in your government as a goal in the program you've given us. Secondly, a whole series of deadlines that were with local self-government and decentralisation, which was one of the main parts of the government's Ivo Sanader programme, fell out within its deadlines. And how casually it was done, what a maniac looked like in those scissors. Even some of the things we did left. I am surprised that we are setting up a new Ministry of Administration without, for example, knowing that the Croatian Parliament adopted the European Charter of Local Self-Government but you in your government, in your programme you are rewriting that it will be adopted in full and in the Charter of Local Self-Government. Furthermore, you move everything that's been a long time to bring. For example, the adoption of the Regional Development Strategy was due on 1 May 2008. You're putting it now that it'll be by the end of 2011. The Regional Development Act was to be adopted by 31 December 2008. We received the programme this morning that a law on the financing of units of local self-government will be drawn up by 1.1.2009 and then we received an addition to this programme that deleted it, which means that the new Government is no longer planning to adopt a new Law on the financing of units of local self-government but is said here that the Government will adopt a regulation establishing the amount of funds for the local self-government unit. I'm sorry, but it's something contrary to the charter we've brought and which you're here now suggesting we bring back. Similarly, the Law on the municipal economy and a number of other laws relating to local self-government should have been adopted, as administrative decentralisation should have been done long ago. What is equally a problem is to rewrite the things that should have been brought and made, such as the allocation of funds in favour of the county road administrations and the budget of the local self-government unit by 70%. I, gentlemen of the ruling majority and government, have made amendments to each budget and budget rebalance in accordance with the Government's programme. You kept saying no. Now you put that same thing back in this program. I wonder if it will be in the rebalancing of the budget that will be substrated in the next few days here in the Croatian Parliament or re-entering it only for the sake of order. Mrs. Kosor said not only that she would rule with a determined woman's hand but that we would be followed by painful cuts. I don't see in this program or cuts, and I don't see any painful cuts in particular. This is indeed just another declaratory statement of something we might want to do if we had enough money to do so. And it really raises the question of where is a little ordinary man in this program. I think that citizens today are also wondering how many new government jobs will be preserved by the end of this year, how many jobs will be preserved by the end of the mandate, how many new jobs will be open by the end of this year, how many will be open by the end of the term of office, how much pensions will grow or fall, whether regular pensions will be able to be paid as announced, etc. But that this situation is used to do some dirty work around I'm going to tell you now on an example. So it was waiting for Prime Minister Sanader to resign to resolve the fate of a company operating in Koprivnica, it is "Sloga d.d.". "Slat d.d." In 31.12.2007, it became a majority state-owned company with the aim of saving itself and putting in place a management that should therefore have made a restructuring programme to preserve jobs. 600 jobs were in that Syllabic when the state took over. In a year and a half, the state as owner and management of the company did not pay contributions to health and pension insurance. And today, instead of seeing why the state acted irresponsiblely as owner and instead of preserving those 600 jobs today, we will have only 350 jobs perhaps preserved after the bankruptcy was declared. Unfortunately, the hand that was provided was to build a programme together with local self-government was rejected and the elections were waiting for something to happen in Croatia to happen in order to make public and attention on something else as radical as possible in the company. This is the result of state property management in Koprivnica. We have other examples where, for example, the military does not want to leave itself to the city at all and there is no idea of what with a large space of 60 hectares etc. These are some questions I would like to hear the answer to today from the prime minister's candidate because we want not only me personally but also citizens who, in the parliamentary elections and in particular in local elections, gave the vote to either the SDP or the HDZ because HDZ and the HSS in the coalition came out with a very ambitious programme in local elections to know what they are on. A lot of promises have been made in these local elections, the stone foundations have been poured everywhere where the prime minister or one of his associates passed, and today we have come to the conclusion that we do not know whether these rock foundations will ever be found again, and that is the same with the A12 highway, A13 where a big game was made on borrowed meadows with the opening of highways. From the opening of the highway to the day there did not start work, the machines that were brought to the opening show stand until this moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35413	Thank you. A few credentials and replicas. The first is Mr. Vice-President of the House Josip Friscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35414	Well, given what's been said here by my colleague Mršić, there's actually a lot to fix, I'm just going to do a few things. That the state didn't do anything when it came to saving Sloga is simply not true. It took part in the moment when no one and if the state save 350 jobs in the city then they must know that it is a rescue thanks to the state, because the town of Koprivnica headed by Mayor Mršić would not give up even the communal fees when the bankruptcy manager asked for it. And saving jobs isn't the same as stretching Jaegers around the square, and as far as highway A12 is concerned, it's being built and it's going to be made and it's the only cornerstone I believe will never be found, because the one he laid down with his friends convincing people that the state will not do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35415	The second amendment. Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35416	I will also correct Mr. Mršić's incorrect allegations that the programme of this government and the mandater, that these are actually prescribed things from Ivo Sanader's programme, so copies, nothing original, etc. and that they should have already been settled. Namely, that's not true. In this programme, what remains as a constant and what is repeated are the strategic national goals around which HDZ has won elections and around which it has gathered its coalition partners. As far as the deadlines are concerned, we can't pretend like nothing happened. We are faced with the biggest crisis since the last century of the '20s, and it is clear that the state had to face this crisis, that the state budget had to be examined, that state spending had to be examined, and in that sense some things would have to be delayed, moved, but no change occurred around the strategic objectives.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35417	Replications. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35418	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You're a well-known principled fighter in the Rules of Procedure. And for the current replica, I would like to say, my colleague Mršić, you are also surprised at the contradictions in HDZ policy. The contrasts in the HDZ policy of the last government are not surprising at all, but I am surprised by today's contradictions in the performance of the HDZ. Watch this. The candidate or prime minister for the new government acknowledges the crisis and recession. He's looking for savings even on coffee and water. At the same time, the HDZ club claims the past government was extremely successful. So which government did this crisis come from? Say that the people know. ... And another thing is that the HDZ argues that the successes of joining NATO are true, that success is to come to the European Union's threshold. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] I think the success of joining NATO, and the success of getting to the threshold of the European Union is not, because neither are they satisfied nor the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, is more so than has been paid very much for coming to the threshold. And the third thing I think, they don't have any other arguments, they didn't mention any macroeconomic size as the government's success, how citizens will live, what standard, how much they're going to grow or how much they're going to fall. In that sense, we really should repeat our discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35419	Replication response. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35420	So what you said to your colleague, Leko, I'm surprised we don't have a response to what we're warning ourselves here as a problem or as a danger. We have made a copy paste program and it is even seen on some pages where there are other old calendars and old dates so it had to be corrected or some chapters you have completely accurate copy paste almost in the font and in everything made from before, and I repeat, painful cuts have been announced. So it was if anything else at least correctly said then those painful cuts that would be, because those painful cuts must be done in the term of this government however short it may be. And if they are painful and if the cuts are then they should have been entered into the government program, not going like this with something that's really at the level of an office business where we copy what we had two three years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35421	Next replica. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35422	Thank you very much. Mr. Mršić, in your debate, you have well noticed that there is no exact data under this program. It is simply a set of intentions, desires, but without providing Croatian citizens with information as much as it will. jobs to secure this program or how much it will protect people from losing their jobs. But not all copy traps, something's gone from the program. For example, she disappeared from a number program that our colleagues in the HSS fought hard at the beginning of the coalition government, which is six billion kuna for agriculture. It's gone. She disappeared from the programme, for example in tourism, investment in tourism, or 50,000 new high-class beds. Much to ensure development, which should have provided additional resources to make our economy more competitive, has disappeared from the programme. Unfortunately, now there is no sign of voice or coalition partners or those who swore then to invest more in agriculture. They have now probably reconciled and satisfied with a Croatian advance from the post of prime minister to the post of Deputy Prime Minister. That's the way this coalition works.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35423	Replication response. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35424	Time did not allow me to say what was really deleted from this programme, but since you started infrastructure, you should say that, for example, a big Croatian new deal of construction of railway infrastructure has disappeared. We even brought this to the Parliament, the Strategic Plan for the Development of Railway Infrastructure. Unfortunately, he is not included in this programme and it is obvious that by the end of the term of office of this government there will be nothing from the second track on the Rijeka-Zagreb stock, Vrbovec-Long Village, Vrbovec-Koprivnica, over. He disappeared from the government programme and tunnel through Učka, which was supposed to connect Istria with Croatia, so there are really some things that he doesn't have. The Peles bridge remains in the program at this time, but I think the first rebalancing will bring it under a great deal of question. But what I expected, therefore, is that today we will really have an honest conversation, an honest dialogue, that we will face the current financial situation, with financial opportunities by the end of this year, and by suggesting what will be by the end of this government's term, and that we will honestly talk about what is really real, and which is not, because what it says here is first erased, we do not know why, and the other big part of it will still be subject to a big question.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35425	Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35426	You're telling my colleague Mršić, telling me about Eve Sanader, he's gone. Well, it's not like that, Mr. Lobster, it's not like that. Sanader didn't just leave, he ran headlessly, he cowardly ran away. He's a fugitive of responsibility. He didn't have the guts to come before this Assembly to explain to the MPs who appointed him prime minister why he stopped being prime minister. He came to the Parliament through the basement. He's from the Parliament, at his club's session. He came out of the Parliament through the basement and walking out that basement door went into oblivion. He left the club here to defend him and his politics and his government. So do you listen to your colleague, Mr. Lobster, defending him? They say it is phenomenal in Croatia, that there is much better living here since Sanader was prime minister. That there's someone here in heaven. So whoever's crazy is running out of heaven like Sanader did. Well, heaven only escapes the devil or someone who needs to take his business skills because he's running away from heaven. So don't when you talk about Eve Sanader, he's never gone again.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35427	Mr. Representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35428	Comrade Mršić, you were talking about the program of this government and the difference in the program from one year and a half ago and the one that arrived on our benches today. This program that has arrived on our benches today is a living example of how this government is ruling and will continue to rule after today. The government coalition programme 2008 through 2011 announced the construction of the four fast track road Varazdin – Krapina. In this new proposal that we received today, everything else remains unchanged except for that four-member fast road. They erased two strips, and there's only a fast road left. It all says so, and it says that HDZ lost power in the third constituency and now punishes the citizens of Varazdin, Krapina-Zagorje and Međimurje County by removing two lanes of road, i.e. turning four track roads into a fast road. But he remained in this programme, the Pelješki bridge, with the cost of building ten times higher than it would be building this fast road, and it is gravity of ten times fewer people than those who are gravitating this fast road in Varazdin County. I'm sorry that there is no Mr. Chehok back here in the Parliament to thank him for negotiating well as a coalition partner for HDZ and contributing to abolishing the four track roads and turning it into a fast road. And in the experience of his lobbying, it is obvious that this mandate will not even begin to build this fast road.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35429	Replica reply, Mr. Zastavnik Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35430	Well, look, counterpart Habek, you shouldn't be too sad about it because the government is honest with you. According to a number of others who have remained enrolled in the projects here in these papers, it is once again dishonest because much of it will not be done the same way. He should have already done a program for the construction and maintenance of Croatian roads in 2008, 2011. Unfortunately, it wasn't done. When it's done, then you'll see how much more of it goes down. But where they got some votes, they still leave some hope. Unfortunately, this situation takes place after the local elections and there, again HDZ proved to be extremely dishonest because they knew that such a situation would take place before the elections and should have been fair before the local elections, look after the elections. Because in the end, dr. Ivo said he's been thinking about it for three months. Look, after the election, I'll resign, go with the new government, the situation is what it is, there won't be money for those projects, although we're heartily promising these projects now in this campaign, so they specifically said if you vote for us then we'll do it. Now you can see that the foam for that won't be.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35431	Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35432	Dear Mršić, you saw well that the Regional Development Act should have been adopted by 31.12 last year. And this program is about him, but it's a little bit of a deadline. But what is important, Mrs. Kosorica has come, today in this addition program that we later... One provision has been omitted, in this context, on the financing of local self-government and the right to support from the state budget under the criteria of that unit of local self-government whose incomes per capita are lower than the national average. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] As one of the criteria, he would also serve as state support. There's no part of that section in that booth program that came in later today. Now, whether a copy error occurred or indeed that criterion is withdrawn from the criteria of the right to support and local self-government in the context of regional development would indeed be seen and important because it depends on how the law in the area will then be prepared. So, if it's a mistake to drop that passport, it would be good to go back into the program.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35433	Replicate response, Mr. Zavodnik Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35434	So let me get this straight. The point is that there was a programme of government, old, former, technical now written that a law on the financing of units of local self-government with effect from 1.1.2009, which means that the law should be in force. In the copy paste technique, it remained in the original text of this government's programme, so I guess someone read it and then took it and cut out the whole passport, so it remains completely unclear whether a new law on the financing of local self-government units will be passed at all. And secondly, whether what it says on page 26 will be adopted instead is that it will be defined as a regulation by which the Government determines the amount of funds for the local self-government unit by the end of September for the following year, which absolutely does not correspond to the meaning of local self-government. And I hope that the new minister will seriously rebel against both that text and what is the meaning of local self-government. And it would have been much better if the ministry had also been called the Department of Administration and local self-government. Because again, we're the only country that doesn't have, so the administrative body that is resolutely competent in the name of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35435	And Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35436	Well, here, colleague Mršić, of course I took the opportunity of a replica to answer you and to say some things, because I can't really believe that with so much ease you bring up so many negative and incorrect allegations. So much negativity, first of all, about the positive efforts, about saving our company Sloga. Our Deputy Prime Minister has made so much effort and effort to save Sloge's company, and to save any job at this time is an extraordinary undertaking, and you didn't want to release the communal fees at the same time. So much for that. You mention other properties where you won't be given real estate. You want to give, but you need to have programs, you need to have personnel, you need to buy a ticket, as you've been told multiple times. And the most pains me is what you say about the highway. Well, we all have to look forward to that freeway of ours, and not to the mockery of treating it, putting bricks on it, etc. It's like having a neighbor drop a cow, my dear colleague from our county. It really grieves me. It's nice to listen like this that you care about the fate of our locals and it's really nice, but it's also to spend half an hour on fireworks in our city at this time of crisis, so tell the rest of you how much it's worth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35437	Replicate response, Mr. Zavodnik Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35438	Yes, look, colleague Milinkovic, I invite you as my representative to my mayor's office to tell you what the interests of the citizens of Koprivnica are. You don't have to interpret that to me. I was in the election, 75% of the people of Koprivnica entrusted the vote to me. I guess they had some reason for that. You and your coalition partners got less than 23%. It's a ratio of strength. As for the style, so my colleague Polancec and I went to the bankruptcy manager about 3.5 months ago, and we gave very clear tasks to the bankruptcy manager, unfortunately none of this happened. I talked to the bank manager on several occasions, asked to see what happened. It was said after the election it would be and after the election there was a bankruptcy. As for the utility fee, unlike any other tax fees, Sloga has not paid a single kuna of municipal compensation since 2001. That's true when you're talking about it. But the question is therefore how is it possible that taxes and contributions are not paid from 31.12.2007 to today, and no one has released... /The speaker has been turned off and turned back on./... So, and no one gave any approval for that. That's what this is about. Therefore, do not go out with the floscules as well as the vice president of the Parliament on some issues. Come, meet, I invite you to my office... /The speaker has been turned off so everyone who wants to come, we will introduce you to relevant information, do not go with the floscules. As far as the highway is concerned, there's no one who'd like to build more and sooner. Unfortunately, she hasn't started to build yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35439	Ms. Representative Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35440	I thank Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the government. Here, I can say that as a prerequisite for our debate today is therefore the resignation of Mr. Ivo Sanader. I don't think she should have surprised anyone who knows political relations in Croatia. It is simply a logical sequence of both Sanader's and HDZ's behaviour, i.e. preparedness to deal with problems, i.e. a logical sequence to avoid problems. The government has been acting like a band playing on the Titanic by now, and this has been the strongest expression of course since the crisis began. The sweet sounds go from the government to the people, but the fact is that the ship sinks unwittingly, regardless of these beautiful sounds. I personally don't care about Mr. Sanader's resignation, here's a colleague Mršić mentioned, we don't know why he went where he went. Well, I have to admit, I don't care much about where he went either. All I care about is whether the Prime Minister knows something that we don't know, or something that made him run away with his head, regardless of what we're about to find out in the near future. But something Sanader said especially I liked, I must admit, which is rare. And that's that time for a fresh start. I absolutely agree with that, but what kind of a new beginning they will have the right to say only voters in the Republic of Croatia. They must say who should lead the country further under these changed circumstances and therefore early elections are the only fair, fair and solution that is good for Croatia's future. But I understand this reaction by HDZ and the panic fear of early elections. Why? First, because the voters of the Republic of Croatia are not representatives at the HDZ assembly and it is known in advance that they all voted unanimously and thus elected party president. Secondly, HDZ policy as it was in the 1990s is based solely on one man. Then it was Tudjman, later Sanader. So when this man for some reason is gone, everything goes to hell. Third, I am sure that despite that declarative determination that HDZ sends in its statements, however, they should at least be aware that the country is not leading in the right direction and are afraid to punish voters. Personally, I believe that HDZ is absolutely the most responsible for the state we have today, and I believe it is their duty to get the chestnuts out of the fire. But so far, it's proven that that "HDZ knows" wing is absolutely incorrect because HDZ doesn't know. I'm not up for calling an early election. I personally and sat in Osijek, thank God, but when things get as serious as they are today, it's obviously the only solution. It's like having a rotten tooth. You can delay the extraction of that tooth, suffer the pain, but in the end you will be welcomed to go back to the dentist and do what needs to be done, so delaying can only get worse. I don't want to be a bad prophet, but I'd hate to be in the position of the future Prime Minister because this composition of the government smells like conflict. In conflicts, you can definitely not run a government so that it goes to better citizens, but only members of the government deal with themselves, and I'm almost sure that's what it's going to look like. During the 2009 budget debate, it was claimed that the budget was developed to respect the economic situation, to respect the existence of the crisis. We argued otherwise, we proposed some things that would help us get out of the crisis, but it definitely did not come to the approval of the ruling ones. What happened in the meantime? All economic indicators are falling except for one that is on the rise, and that is unfortunately unemployment. GDP decline by 6.7%, import decline 20%, decline of industry 10%, lack of 15 billion kuna in the budget, gross profit lower by as much as 52% compared to the first quarter compared to last year. Should we keep counting? We heard today. If I had to, there's a lot more, but I won't. We could be late at night. Today we have heard that we are on the verge of the European Union. Perhaps, but we have been on that threshold for so long that we can camp there, because that door is standing tight for us, and the situation with Slovenia has only helped the rulings to get away with it, and we know very well that entering the European Union has been asked a lot of unresolved things in Croatia before. That's where I primarily think about corruption. When we talk about early elections, I primarily appeal to HDZ partners because without them, the government's reconstruction would be gone. I appeal to their responsibility and feeling for the improvement of the Republic of Croatia. I'm afraid this government will be just an extension of the agony in which individual members will compete and try to impose as leaders, and the prime minister will spend all her energy and time on evidence that she is determined, that she is independent, that it doesn't matter that she is a woman and that she is willing to make painful moves if they are positive for the future. Mrs. Kosor has so far accepted jobs and duties that have been condemned in advance. Let's remember the presidential election. She will probably interpret it as personal courage, but in my opinion it is a kamikaze of moves in which she has managed to save herself with the help of her colleagues, but I'm afraid it won't go on like that anymore. My concern for the future failed to calm down neither her speech nor this program we got on the benches, nor Mr. Hebrang's speech on behalf of the club that sounded more like a post-mortem speech, and not some optimistic speech. What also concerns Mr. Hebrang's statement that the government will have the same course as the previous one. Well, I don't know what that means. Which is why Mr. Sanader resigned in the first place. From everything I've said and no matter what I personally find myself invited by Mrs. Kosor to support her as a woman, I won't do it. Although I highly appreciate the efforts and work of women in politics, I know how many problems, how difficult it is, but we here choose not a woman, but a person who will be able to deal with problems, solve them and lead Croatia in a good direction, a direction that guarantees improvement for the citizens and citizens of this country, and this composition of the government headed by Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor is definitely not guaranteeing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35441	Thank you. A few corrections and one replica. First correction, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35442	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it is incorrect that there is an increased fear of elections in HDZ, of any choice of early and regular, because we will defeat you as we have won so far. In a recent month and a half ago, we beat you convincingly, and if we had painted them on these to parliaments, certainly to remain in power. As far as legitimacy is concerned, therefore, there is no question. Furthermore, if you are already asking the question of legitimacy, then we could have asked a question in your SDP, let's say why don't you discuss the legitimacy of your President Milanovic who received 15% or 16% of the votes below your candidate Milan Bandic. And as for your statement that you would not be happy to be in Mrs. Kosor's place, be assured that such an opportunity will never be given to you in your life.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35443	Ms. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35444	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Borzan said the assumption of today's debate is Eve Sanader's resignation. I don't know if you guys were here on Friday, but we discussed that resignation Friday. Today we are discussing the composition of the new government and the programme the government has offered us. You also said, it's incorrect and it's really incorrect that early elections are the only solution. The call for early elections is a denial of what the President of the Republic of Croatia has decided, and he has entrusted Mrs Jadranki Kosor with a mandate to draw up a new government on the basis of the distribution of seats in the Croatian Parliament and held consultations. As hard as it sounds to you, but it's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35445	Next correction, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35446	I would also correct the inaccuracies of my colleague Borzan who said that the politics of the Croatian Democratic Community rests on one man, so when he is gone, everything disappears. Namely, I'd just like to remind you that in the first 10 years HDZ led Dr. Franjo Tuđman, who led Croatians and HDZ and Croatian people to create and defend the Croatian state in two key postulates, led by the reconciliation of the emigrant and native Croatia. I'm afraid dr. Francis died, but what happens then? You lose the election twice again. You get a chance in 2000, you do nothing, you vote your sentences, you lose the election. Then he comes back in 2007, after our term of office, people give us trust again, gets HDZ again. Therefore, HDZ never rested on one man, but rested on its programme, for which we regularly win the election and we will win again.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35447	Vice President of the House, Honorable Mr. Representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35448	The esteemed representative said HDZ was running away from the problem. Well, you see, that's not true. If HDZ had been running away from the problem, we wouldn't be sitting here today because we wouldn't have their own country, but the fact is that SDP is MPs in '91. The year it was due to vote for a resolution on the disintegration escaped from this hall outside. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35449	Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35450	Thank you very much. My colleague Borzan said, quote, "The resignation of the prime minister is a logical sequence of running away from the problem." My colleague, that is not true, because it is true that it is true that Prime Minister Sanader was afraid to stand at the head of the government behind, who came behind your government when it was due to pay back the pensioners, pay back the debt to the police officers, maternity benefits, reduce the deficit of the state budget, introduce Croatia into the Security Council, introduce Croatia to NATO, etc., and so on. And it doesn't matter that you colleagues are afraid, it's important that the Prime Minister of the future Government of Ms. Kosor and his team of ministers are not afraid and because he has a majority in this House because we here support him as well as those who elected us in the 2007 parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35451	And the replica of Mr. Representative Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35452	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, Borzan, despite the great corrections of the false allegations, to try to say that there is a debate here on the mandate, and that it is not a debate on the former Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia which you have well established that, with the resignation he has given, unfortunately you cannot change that, as much as you try to do it well, because that worked out well, he escaped. This could mean that he faced some problems that he couldn't solve within his own party, there must be fat reasons, which one day we'll find out why he ran headless. It can mean what I don't believe, a lack of courage to face these problems we're talking about today. And unfortunately, lack of responsibility. On behalf of the HDZ Club today, we heard that journalists say that the inscriptions of some newspapers are destabilising at the most sensitive moment. And what, then, is the resignation or escape of the party president, the president of the Croatian government at the most sensitive moment? How could that qualify? If it is the most sensitive moment, then that escape is the most sensitive moment. Because you can't say that this act has destabilized something in Croatia, from the stock market so that I don't add up, that something has destabilized in Europe, that we are no longer the leader and the lion in this lobby of ours, but that it has brought us back to some Balkan door, and it has distanced us from the threshold of Europe. And that, unfortunately, is obviously transitional and receptive. Because here are the coalition partners, counterpart Pankretic, from one ministry because he didn't know how to solve the problem of peasants, and that leaves it to someone else. That escape is obviously a flu or something. Maybe that virus won't go any further, so in some way it will only be stopped with Mr Pancretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35453	Ms. Biljana Borzana, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35454	Well, here's what you see, Mr. Denon, at HDZ, they definitely don't want to deal with any problems. And now I'm saying that if the prime minister isn't seriously ill, and he said he wasn't, then the only reason he's too much is because he's cowardly gone. There's no other reason, I don't know what that would be. However, HDZ is returning to the 1990s to some vote in the Parliament that we still remember and obviously does not want to face the problems Croatia is facing right now and that is why Mr Sanader is very likely to have left.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35455	My colleagues and colleagues we discussed yesterday, we recently debated the resignation of the Prime Minister. Now it's a different topic. Life goes on. Presenting the government and voting on the government's trust. Let's not go back to what you've all had a chance to discuss. Mrs. Brankica Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35456	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Prime Minister, Minister and Minister in the future government, colleagues and colleagues. So far we have lived in virtual reality created by the former prime minister, but the facts speak of a completely different reality that is not even slightly pink. The State Statistics Institute announced that GDP dropped 6.7% in the first quarter of 2009. Which is the biggest real fall in ten years. The State Statistics Institute states that all categories of GDP have fallen significantly, except for the state consumption that continues to grow. Household spending is the largest category in GDP, down by 9.9%. Which is the biggest real fall in the last 10 years. While the real decline in gross fixed capital investment was 12.4%. The decline in exports of goods and services is 14.2% and the decline in imports of goods and services is 20.9%. The only thing that's increased is spending on state spending by 3.9%. The decline in GDP has been affected by a significant decline in real added value, industrial production and trade. The decline in gross value added was recorded in the following mining activities, processing industry, electricity and gas supply, water 10.3%, trade 15%, hotels and restaurants 4.4%, and transport services 5.2% compared to the same quarter last year. The Croatian economy has the worst results in the Western Balkans region, other worst results in transition Europe and other worst results among all transition countries in the world. In its own region of the Western Balkans, Croatia achieved double the result in 2008 than in all other countries. For comparisons, Albania achieved an economic growth of 6.3% in 2008 and Montenegro of 7.5%. However, the problem of this country and society is not the percentages of both interest and GDP and unemployment, etc. The main and fundamental problem is very simple. It is corruption, corruption, nepotism and the overall irresponsibility of politicians, employers, institutions. In a country where politics is driven from completely wrong motives, these very motives must change. And they are woven into the very core of this society. With us, corruption and nepotism are generally accepted behavioral modes. Basic moral values are distorted. And changing values and morals in society is not a matter of action plan or implementation strategy. We have to change ourselves. Why are we surprised there's no money when hundreds of millions of euros disappear from the budget? Both state and local, and no one asks a question. Half the false defenders and nobody else. Promise one thing, promise the other. A lie to a lie and nothing again. Judges are elected because of the merits of their grandparents, halls cost triple the real prices, roads double, etc. Threats and beatings all over the place and nobody else. If these things don't change from the foundation, no loans will help us. No one will be better or worse until they start calling for responsibility. Anyone can be better off if they call him to account. Each of the following will be better if the previous one is called for responsibility. Without serious criminal proceedings responsible for the state of play in the country of fundamental change, it can never be with or without the IMF. As Washington Post says, corruption cost Croatian citizens at least $1 billion. A billion dollars is not little in a country whose GDP is only 23 billion. Banks in Austria have more than 80 secret accounts hiding $500 million. To be clear, there is corruption in the countries that teach Croatia about it, but in these countries at least they try to fight it and here we are not only not trying but we are still at the stage of analysing what corruption is and how to deal with it. I'm sorry Mrs. Prime Minister isn't here right now. I am aware that she has a really difficult and responsible job ahead of her, and I truly want her to have a lot of determination, a lot of courage, and a lot of success in solving the problems ahead of her, although I fear that this is an impossible mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35457	Thank you. A few corrections. The first is Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35458	Well, I had to react because I think my colleague Brank is sending the wrong message to people again. In fact, it says politics is going from the wrong motives. Well, I don't think that the vast majority of politicians did go, including you, didn't go out of those motives, so then there's a few who went in and they're not going to change, so let's not talk against everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35459	Mr. Representative Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35460	The esteemed representative said, quote, that half the defendants are false. Madam representative, you spoke in your speech of responsibility. I call upon you to report these false defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35461	Mr. Representative Josip Djakić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35462	Mr. Vice President. I'm going to correct an incorrect quote in a series that they were, which is that half the defense attorneys are false. Namely, it is an absurd, incorrect and terrible claim that is not supported by anything and returns to the words that were in your mandate, in your government on the behaviour of your Minister Pancic, your officials. And then the presidents of the state and the entire Croatian public were deceived by disgraceful names, shameful debauchery, abolishing the rights of the parents of the dead, the victims of the Homeland War. These are your rhetoric that can never come out of you with anything backed up. Millions of kunas have been paid after the verdicts for what you did unlawfully and you have abolished the rights where the Administrative Court ruled, millions of values have been kidnapped by the Republic of Croatia in interest and in those backlogs that had to be paid, and are still being paid today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35463	Mr. Representative Ante Kulušić rectifier.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35464	I'm going to correct the correction of the incorrect assumption again. It's a joke my colleague said half the lawyers were fake. It's a disaster. However, a colleague also spoke of nepotism. However, my colleague from Sibenik became director of the Social Care Centre in Sibenik two years ago in this nepotism. Imagine the nepotism in HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35465	Ms. Representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35466	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would correct the inaccuracies of the representative lady who says hundreds of millions of euros disappears from the state budget and also from the local ones. My colleague, I must really say that a serious politician would at least give the minimum the position and the division of that disappearance such a large amount of money. If you are unable to do so, then I do not know why you are actually here in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35467	Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35468	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Today in the world when you're getting a new job, then it's very good to have a recommendation from someone who worked with you. Mrs. Kosor received a recommendation from Dr. Ivo Sanader, which is in fact the main argument that this recommendation is not being respected and that she is not in favour of the post of prime minister she has just run for. Everything that's happened in the past few days confirms that because of the irresponsibility of HDZ's insistentant we're moving on to the edge of the sink. Croatia today is not only in the economic crisis but in an even worse social crisis but unfortunately the most dangerous crisis in the governance crisis. So I tried to find at least one reason why I should support the new government proposed by Mrs. Kosor, but unfortunately after walking around my room like Professor Balthazar for hours. Why? Because Mrs. Kosor is but also all the other ministers and ministers who are now proposed for the new government are champions of irresponsibility. It's so irresponsible how Sanader put together Mr. Kalmeta with everyone you've ever been to this government who's been irresponsiblely leading this Croatia and this government so irresponsible as the last traitor, coward, deserter, like the little spoiled child who's tired of playing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35469	Comrade Jovanovic, pick your words a little. You can't call a traitor anyone in this House. You know what a traitor is.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35470	I know.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35471	You can't say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35472	I didn't say he was a traitor. I said he was a traitor.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35473	No, you clearly said what was like a traitor. Don't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35474	I congratulate the Prime Minister, former Sanader, you, Mr. Shakespeare, and the entire HDZ on the consistency in irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35475	Kola Jovanovic, please choose your words and do not address me in an offensive way, which is chaired by the Assembly or representatives of the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35476	Where was the insult?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35477	It's an offensive one speech, offensive, demeaning, underestimating, challenging, incendiary, and don't do it that way. There's evil blood. Don't talk like that, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35478	You took two minutes of my hearing. ... So shame on you, Mr. Minister. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] How can you throw it out of the bench? ... You can't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35479	Peace, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35480	That's proof of your culture. ... Can I go on? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35481	Yeah, but be nice and stick to my warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35482	The HDZ returned to the political circus in Croatia in 2009 and the grotesque performance in Arena once again showed that the role of the intensifier, the lead actor and director is what the former prime minister knew best, and everyone else is just small statisticians, including coalition partners who are participants in a tragic performance whose price is most expensively paid by Croatian citizens. There are a number of examples, I'll try to name just a few, as long as time allows. I have been claiming for months that the only solution for Croatia was Mr. Sanader's resignation, but not just him, but the entire government. So Sanader's resignation is the first act, but the second act cannot be the return of a great leader, but rather early elections in which Croatia needs a new leadership and a new direction. Croatia was driven from problem to problem, Sanader became its biggest problem because it was making bad decisions, and it included ministers and coalition partners who were one ordinary decor of incompetence, irresponsibility, corruption and selfishness. That is why the government to be run by candidate Kosor, where all these same people have no moral basis or professional, human and operational capacity to offer a solution to economic problems, social crisis and corruption, organised crime that is the consequence of such a rule in Croatia. Such a government does not have the trust of the electoral body and therefore it is necessary to have early elections so that if they are given the trust of the Croatian electoral body they can then talk about the legitimacy of such a government. Everything else is a fraud of citizens and a continuation of the agony of the Croatian government, a government in which Croatian citizens have received nothing in six years. There's a lot of evidence for that, so I'm going to start with how much I can do with it. Economic growth, a lot of colleagues talked about it. We can only say that we returned in 1999, the year Croatia almost broke down and it would have broken if it hadn't been for the coalition government of Ivica Racan. Peacemakers in Croatia are the lowest since the start of the country. 80% of pensioners receive an average of less than 1600 kuna. It is an amount that, if we were in the European Union, would be considered a poverty line. Not only that, the pensioner standard has fallen so much that as many as 548 thousand pensioners receive an average pension of only 1278 kuna. In Croatia, 170 thousand pensioners receive a pension of 543 kuna, as many as 300 thousand pensioners receive a pension of 854 kuna. If this is the contribution of HDZ to the quality of life in Croatia, thank you on behalf of all pensioners and I really don't understand why HSU and other coalition partners support such a government that has cheated on them since the first day the first coalition agreement was signed. A lie about a small government that has grown from 15 ministers to 19 ministers in the middle of the worst economic situation since 1999. Well, my dears, if you had to arrest the new ministers, you could have done it in such a way as to make it more useful. Take, for example. A special story about the Ministry of Health and Social Care run by a minister you don't even know the title to write. If he's a master of science, then it's spelled Mr. Sc. In front of the name, if it's a master's degree, then the gentleman's name is written behind the name, so please correct it in the papers you gave us. In the past period, we have seen that the Ministry of Health and Social Care is a complete mess, from the talk that swine flu is treated with tea, honey and bathing and to the culmination of a new law which has been proposed on medical insemination which is unspeakable, hypocritical, out of date, violates the Constitution, endangers human rights and women's health. Mr. Minister, calm down a little, I have a letter from your like, from Grazac, where two doctors say that their request for a third doctor is not resolved for a year and that by 15.7. if this is not resolved they are going to be sick and therefore 5 thousand residents will be left without medical care. It's your health reform. You have completely forgotten that you are the minister of social care, which is particularly tragic today when an increasing number of citizens precisely because of the inability of the former and future HDZ government that cannot solve economic problems also results in increased pressure on the welfare system. So laugh. 94 thousand desperate citizens are below the edge of hunger, including 27 thousand children. And you laugh all you want. It confirms this observation from the beginning of this government that the Ministry of Health, especially when such a minister, must be separated from the Ministry of Social Welfare, so once you've increased the ministries, you could separate the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare in two ministries and thus help solve the welfare system in a much better way. You are talking about decentralisation which is a dead letter on paper, not only in the welfare system but in the system of the total life of Croatia. Recently, it has been shown that the degree of decentralisation is the higher it is the higher the gross domestic product, the quality of life. Mrs. Kosor, if you really wanted to say that antifascism is an antifascism that is respected in Croatia, then in your speech today, you would say that gentlemen, we will begin to apply the Declaration of Antifascism adopted in 2005 in this House, which has since been a dead letter on paper. Corruption. If you really wanted to fight corruption, I'd say I'd cancel Mr. Faber's promotion and return him to his post because he was guaranteed to fight corruption in Croatia. 71% of Croatian citizens, dear colleagues, say state bodies are not effective in fighting corruption. 75% of Croatian citizens would never report corruption because they are afraid they will get by the head, that they will lose their jobs. Journalists who write about corruption end up on the road, threatened with murder, and nothing seems to protect them. What about the Media Act, what about the Law on the right to access information? This is what you should have mentioned in your opening speech, and thus show that you really have been fighting corruption, not repeating what has been repeated for a year. An alleged strategy and action plan is being implemented, while no corruption affair involving HDZ members has been resolved and will not be resolved. And that's why this government has no right to continue to lead Croatia into the abyss that its former prime minister brought it to.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35483	Thank you. A few corrections and one replica. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovinović, first correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35484	Well, here's a colleague, Jovanovic, as usual, tells the story, and among other things, that the government, the existing government or the former government, is however we will, the champion of irresponsibility. Well, I mean, don't be afraid of your colleague, you're talking with a scared voice. In the Guinnes Book of Records your government will remain for a long time, that's one thing. Secondly, I see a typical abuse of the position of the president of the national body, the parliamentary anti-corruption body that uses cheap points for its party. Third, there is no dear colleague, because of HDZ, none of the journalists lost their jobs. He lost his job when they touched the empire of his bosses.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35485	Ms. Representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35486	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. ... I'd like to beg. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Representative Jovanovic, everything he said in his debate, I would not quote because I respect the Croatian Parliament as the largest Croatian institution unlike you. But the fact is, this MP Jovanovic, that you will never achieve what Dr Ivo Sanader has achieved. And you can watch him today and tomorrow and before that just like this under the bench up there. You're sick of it. You'll never see it. Dr. Sanader in the second part of the Croatian state must have enormous merits. He also recognizes him as a politician the whole world. But you, you SDPs will never recognise the Croatian state and you will never recognise the people who lead the Croatian people and therefore you will remain in opposition for a long time and you can yell all you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35487	Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35488	So I'm joining my colleagues and colleagues who have corrected a lot of wrong allegations here and I wouldn't look back at these, my colleague Jovanovic, when you said in connection with morals I don't know, professional, educational, this. I think they're really unapplicable, I wouldn't say they're incorrect, but I'd say they're really inappropriate and they don't have room. But I'd like to draw more attention to this element when you're talking about the health system, health care, reform, etc. You see, you have absolutely incorrectly spoken what you have said. I claim there is no human system in the world unlike Croatia. There isn't. It doesn't even have a more efficient system. That's what you know. From Croatia, given how much the funds are allocated and how effective they are, and how effective they are. On the other hand, in order for such a system to be maintained, to be improved, and to finally introduce both system and improvement monitoring methods, it was necessary to implement the reforms that Milinovic is here, the present minister will implement and implement and implement, and the system will be even more effective. Therefore, if you really want to run a commission that has such a proud title for fighting corruption, then you really have to respect people, you have to respect the facts, and not really de facto bring up some of your own unprovoked views. Because it's really your fight in that case, and when it comes to corruption, it's inconclusive.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35489	And Mr. Representative Frano Matušić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35490	Well, my colleague incorrectly said that this government doesn't trust the voters. Namely, we are a legally elected body, the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament, which has, which received voter confidence in the previous elections in 2007, and we have the legitimate right to give our trust to the new government. You don't want to say that President Mesic was wrong when he gave us the right, or when he gave Mrs. Kosor the right to form a new government. And secondly, I am personally sorry that because of the hatred you have for the Croatian democratic community, you cannot objectively judge the world around you. And at the beginning of the opening part, you said you'd been thinking a lot. We're left with the one thing you've been thinking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35491	Mr. Representative Nedjeljko Strikic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35492	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, dear Mr. Representative Balthazar, I think that's what he called himself, isn't it... He said that at the Ministry of Health, there was finally chaos. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My dear colleague, you're really wrong. Health reform gave its results, and I think it was a chaos based on an international competition when our Mr. Milinovic spent on particularly expensive medicines, then there was chaos in many of the companies that have funded SDP in recent years, and that is why you are attacking and successful health reform. This is the basic reason because it is 450 million kunas for particularly expensive medicines where they have been rich in poverty for years, for sick people. That's where the chaos started.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35493	Replica, Mrs. Brankica Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35494	My colleague Jovanovic, I fully agree with that part of your debate in which you referred to the welfare system. That this system is a completely neglected system tells the fact that more than a year and a half has not been appointed director of the Social Care Directorate. So, the last government is a completely irrelevant resort to determine the person who will lead it. Or in Croatia there is no adequate person who could face all the challenges and problems of the social care system, so the minister concluded that it is better that the system works as it has been, or beheaded. And as for the nepotism in Sibenik, dear colleague Kulusic abused the correction of the incorrect allegations and did not tell the complete truth that I must now speak. I was elected to the re-competition for the Director of the Centre for Social Care because I was the only one who met the requirements of the competition, so the board had no other choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35495	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35496	My colleague Crljenko, there is no part of the social care system that we could touch without showing how missed the current ministry's behaviour is about people with problems. Just take people with autism. For years, it has been the transfer of responsibility between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health and Social Care, and people with autism are absolutely deprived of all those rights they have in the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35497	Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35498	Thank you, Mr. President. I hope I don't cross that subtle border in my debate, but I see you're no longer in the chair. So last week, a revolutionary change occurred in Croatia, although I would not call what happened even a revolution. However, after what happened afterwards, it is quite certain that, by the end of the year and throughout the following year, there will be no evolution or change in the direction Croatia is going, which is to sink into the deeper and deeper crisis. Until a few months ago, there was no recognition of the fact that we have a crisis, and now the crisis was global, it was supported by the measures of the Croatian government or by the inaction of the Croatian government remains with Slovenians the best excuse for anything that will not happen in Croatia, and could have happened in the past, this year and next. Neither we from the opposition nor members of the HDZ, according to their ordinary HDZ members, according to their reactions after your 13th Congress, nor did the Croatian public get the reason and answer for which Doctor Ivo Sanader left. She didn't get an answer that would be unequivocal and beyond which there would be no speculation, etc. The fact that you're saying we got the answer, we got an answer that didn't match anything. Croatia will certainly survive without Doctor Ivo Sanader. HDZ will probably survive without Dr. Ivo Sanader. You'll be the only thing less next time, but this coalition certainly won't survive without Dr. Ivo Sanader. This government is one triumphant way, and when I say this government, I don't see any major changes, the composition is absolutely or almost the same as it was at the beginning of the mandate with those changes in the 10th month last year. So in a triumphal or triumphant way, she appeared in January last year when there was no sign of a crisis. Unfortunately, in an equally large but not triumphant way without speaking to the Croatian Parliament, the current technical prime minister, Dr Ivo Sanader, still went. All what was then written in the Croatian Government's 2007-2011 programme is now written. It was copied by a well-known copy paste method, only in 2007 was replaced by 2009. There's been very few changes since then, but what's changed? First, those who had the opportunity to implement the programme now have twice as much time to implement the programme as they had two years ago. Secondly, not only do they have less time, but they have less money in the budget to implement the programme. So what is the guarantee to Croatian citizens and parliamentary deputies who should vote for the government and the programme, that this programme will be implemented when it has not been spent when there has been twice as much time and some more money? In criticism of the bill coming from the SDP on anti-recession measures, you said it would cost a budget between 10 billion and 15 billion kuna. I'll trust your calculations, maybe it's something less, maybe even more, but what do we hear now? Now we hear the fact that cutting the budget, if I read it correctly in the media, will be 10 billion kuna because there is no income. Now, it seems to me that we're in a slightly different situation right now. If it had reacted when it was supposed to still be 10 to 15 billion kunas less, but they would have gone into the economy. And now it's going to be 10 to 15 billion kunas less, but it won't have anywhere to go. Many say that early elections that would be one of the legitimate and probably best solutions would take us five months and do nothing. We're gonna lose something more like this, we're gonna lose this deputy government's deadline plus another five months to call the election, which is why, of course, I don't think anything important is going to change. Because the government's composition is the same, which is the same coalition and what this is, in some ways, the government of continuity, only with another conductor. But it's not just what's equal. It seems to me that as far as indifference is concerned, everything is the same as it was in 1999, only Dinamo is called Dinamo, not Croatia, as it was then called. The rest are the same coalition partners. The HDZ needs 11 more votes to have an absolute majority. 1 coalition partner has already fulfilled all his programme with which he went to the polls. They lost ZERP, no NATO referendum was called, and now they've lost six billion kuna for agriculture. The other coalition partner, the SDSS, they leave all the time, but they can't leave, and they've only voted double the vote so they'll have to double-confirm the government in this assembly. For this reason, I will remember one part of my debate at the beginning of my term of office when I called the Croatian government "a pink ship" a very similar one. Yes, I was inspired by Marijana Bana, it seems to me that this ship has fallen, and if the captain had left him and what remains of the same author is only what the Croatian state and Croatian citizens are waiting for in the next year, and could be aware, I will not recite, I will say only the title of the song by Marijana Ban, it is "I am sorry for us" and unfortunately so will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35499	Thank you very much. We have two reports of correction of the quote. First of all, dear colleague Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35500	Well, thank you, here's a respected colleague says we're gonna lose the duration of this government plus five months. Well, that's not true. With the help of all of us, I think we'll make good use of that time, that we'll win. But what's interesting also mentions the revolution, in the first sentence of the revolution. The revolution will not be, etc. A colleague, a revolution, a desirable revolution is happening in the South American states, not here. Therefore, revolutions will be long gone, even through Facebook where you have 100,000 revolutionaries, of which 99 thousand are registered at the address of Iblero Square, the headquarters of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35501	Next application of the alleged correction, Davor Huška, a distinguished colleague. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35502	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague, Bauk, who said HDZ is likely to survive after leaving the party's president, Dr. Sanader. Dear colleague, HDZ has lived for 20 years. The HDZ counts over 220 thousand members. HDZ lived during Dr. Tudjman, HDZ lived and strengthened during Dr. Sanader, HDZ lives and today and will strengthen further during the President of Ms. Kosor and unfortunately I will correct yours, unfortunately your incorrect allegations, SDP is neither down to the knees of HDZ nor by the number of members, and the issue of survival and the rest of your party is always hanging, whether you will survive, better ask yourself about your destiny, do not worry about the fate of HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35503	Thank you very much. We have one reply, dear colleague Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35504	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Well, I'll have to agree with my colleague, Bauk, when he found out that from all the announcements and everything that has been said over the past few days has made it clear that there will be no change in direction, and this is recorded from the document that came here as a proposal, that is the government's 2009/2010 programme, meaning for a two-year term. And you've noticed exactly that there's been some kind of change here and there. However, I was hoping that this debate on your part, gentlemen of the HDZ, today will be focused on how Croatia will help at this difficult moment, that it will be a story of the future, about what has to be done and not on the past, about the 1990s, because only the past here was about, and not about the future, and it disappointed me, but getting this document in some way and reading everything we knew, or how it is presented. I just need to read some items in this document for the next two years. The building of all unfinished projects, except for this from Osijek, I'm going to single it out. It weighs 50 billion. The development of rail infrastructure is 20 billion. If we add indifference, if we add unsettled government obligations, it goes up by another 10 billion. Only the energy strategy we have this week for the next 3 years should provide 25 billion for it. And if we want to maintain the same level of subsidies and incentives, that's another 8 billion. And we're coming up with a figure of over 120 billion. Over 120 billion in a situation where the budget will be at 100 billion. When we're 15 billion short on running currents and cold drives. That's what I want to warn you about. How are you going to come up with 120 billion kunas missing from the cold drive only for these projects? So it's simple about the farce, the paper that came here in front of us we don't know why and I would recommend... [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35505	Thank you very much. It's time for a replica, and you've replicated your colleagues, Bauku. He answered the reply for the replica, but I don't know if he was saying it needed 150 billion, but I believe he'll answer that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35506	It's me, Mr. Vice President, thank you. I said that the government programme of the Republic of Croatia that we got the same thing we got two years ago, only instead of 2007, it says in 2009 and all the items were written instead of 2007 to 2011. And in that sense, Mr Bernardić well noted that in twice the time and with much less money almost the same people with the other leader will try to do what they failed to do in the first year and a half of the term and let me be as skeptical as he is. So, in that sense, you could say that he was referring to my debate. As I expressed my natural belief that HDZ would likely survive Dr. Sanader, and Mr. Huška has actually noticed it well. The only thing I fear is that the 14th convention could be extraordinary to them, according to what the media says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35507	Thank you. Dear colleague Dragica Zgrebec is up for debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35508	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, members and members, candidates for the new Croatian government. It's not the first time in this assembly that we're actually having a fight about whether we're in crisis or not, how deep this crisis is, whether it's good or bad, who's guilty and who's responsible. And if the situation in Croatia had been good, it would not have come to the resignation of the Prime Minister and the Government as a whole, and we would not be discussing today the new government and the new government programme. A fellow Jarnjak, in this situation, would have said something wrong on the other hand. About that then, we're in the situation we're in. Our candidate for Prime Minister has been in the government so far often a shocker of bad news. Now she is in a situation to solve problems and I wish her success in this because it will be a success not only of her personally, not only of the Croatian government, but of the success of the Croatian state. Taking unpopular moves isn't easy, and today we're in a situation where you can't promise much, when you can't succumb to the pressures of the street anymore, to those who strike, those who ask for more money, but actually you need to say what the real situation is. And that is why it is good that for the first time today, in this opening presentation of the Government and the Government's programme, we have heard that Croatia is in crisis, that the crisis will not be resolved overnight and that unpopular moves should be made, that we should go into savings. We often say our citizens save. Our citizens have nothing left to spare. They have reduced their needs and their costs to a minimum and should indeed establish priorities where it can be saved, where it cannot be saved. So I don't think the situation should be dramatic, it's serious enough now, but it needs to be made serious moves. The programme we have received is actually the programme with which this coalition went to elections, and on the basis of which the first government was formed, or the current government in resignation. There was probably no other program, no different program could have been found. However, in this serious situation where Croatia is today, I miss two things in this programme, including Mrs Kosor in your opening presentation. If you said Croatia is in crisis, then you should also say what is the situation in Croatia today. On the basis of such general, the assessment of the general situation in Croatia should also say what measures are to be taken in the first month, in the first 3 months, by the end of the year and what budgetary policy we must go with. Budgetary policy is always an expression of the government's policy and its macro-economic policy. It's very little said, very gnarly, and it's very generally said in the program itself and in your opening presentation. In fact, there is no newspaper in budgetary policy and macroeconomic policy. It all comes down to what's already known and seen. Going into one, two, or three rebalancing over one year, and not changing budget policy, we haven't really solved the problem. We haven't solved the essence of the problem. The drop in budget revenues is actually just the result of the situation in the economy, and if you don't have economic growth, if you don't have industrial production, if economic growth is based only on consumption, then when you come into a situation of real wage decline, real pension decline, then you have a decline in imports. We know that we were very dependent in the budgetary sense and in the consumption of imports that grew in two digits. When we don't have competitiveness in the economy, then sooner or later everything breaks in the budget. And what do we have today? We have a high decline in social gross product because for years very little seemed in economic policy, in industrial policy, we thought that we could live on credit and that we could live on services. First of all, trade and tourism. Now it's turned out to be a failed policy. Why is such a huge decline in social gross product? Because the decline in consumption, the decline in personal consumption, the decline in investment, and simply in such a situation, the state was unable to make up for it with its investment moves. And if state spending hadn't grown almost 4% in these three months, we would have recorded a two-digit decline in social gross product. What's most difficult actually in the economy is the chronic indifference which, by some data, has reached a figure of 20 billion kuna these days. And that's just her visible indifference. How many unpaid accounts are in drawers of craftsmen, companies, ministries, about which one can hardly give an assessment. More than 60,000 people work in firms that are inequitable. That means they're getting paid messyly. That means I can't meet the basic needs of life. That means tomorrow they're gonna have trouble paying their loans, they're gonna grow interest rates, they're gonna go swimming, they're gonna run out of houses and apartments because they have mortgage loans. What are the government's priorities? We can't see it from this program. What will be the social action, which will be economically? We didn't see that from this program. That's why I don't think the continuity that comes from this program is good. We're in a serious situation and we need to make some serious moves. And here's to just finally say a few sentences about one of these days actually a subject that was in the story and media reporting, which could significantly fix both the social gross product and the economic picture, and it refers to agriculture. Where did six billion kunas of the program, the joint program of this government, go? There's no mention of him here at all. Did we define that agriculture is an economic branch? We've given up negotiating positions for agriculture and rural development, and there's actually not a word about it. We here in the programme have come down to what we must do first in a legislative sense. There is also a change in the head man in this ministry, and it is obvious that this can be concluded, in fact, that we have achieved almost nothing in that portfolio, that we have not done the necessary cuts here, so that we have not even done here what was necessary in the legislative sense in order to open negotiations in this chapter. This stems precisely from this segment, where the entire programme of agriculture, food security, fisheries, rural development has actually been reduced not to how we are going to improve it, but to how we will legislatively regulate it and how we are going to build some basic market mechanisms that we should have done long ago if we are ready to negotiate with the European Union. It is obvious that the government in this system, which has not changed significantly compared to the existing government, will be accepted that it will gain the trust of the coalition so far. I also wish her success, but I'm afraid that in these settings as it was brought out today, we're actually going to go through one continuity, in a way that only through the budget we're going to put out what has to be put out, which is as little as possible the deficit that we're already bowing down to for the fifth or sixth year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35509	Thank you very much. Next is the debate following the application of the esteemed colleague, Daniel Srb. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35510	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. After this whole stream of wear, I'd say an insult on one side and the other, there's almost no atmosphere for serious debate. However, I will try to look back on some of the things that I find extremely important to emphasize at this point. And that is, above all, what is mentioned as the cause and reason for Prime Minister Sanader's departure from the European Union. Surely all political forces in Croatia want Croatia to enter the European Union. However, the purpose and reason for Croatia's entry into the European Union is different from the political option to the political option. In Croatia, we want Croatia to leave the Balkans as soon as possible, to actually leave this area for a long time, so that it does not constantly tie us to something else and vines, to open up new economic perspectives for us and to reach certain standards that apply to the European Union and that would help us build a country in an economic sense, but also in any other way that we want to. But the question arises, were our expectations in recent years realistic? And whether there are barriers in the European Union that are not affected by Croatia, which are due to different other online circumstances in the European Union itself and the interests of some European Union members. If so, then it should be known and the process of Croatia's accession to the European Union should be adapted accordingly. Because let us not forget the fact that with the accession negotiations itself, their conclusion of Croatia becomes from one to the other negotiations increasingly less and less interesting to potential investors from the Far East in order to open up the plants here and their economic interests, developing through this Croatia, because they find it interesting as a future member of the European Union. We by hasty negotiations practically limit our perspectives. We have now come to a situation where, for example, we are announcing a tender for the sale of shipyards and in conditions where our entry into the European Union is practically unsure and the continuation of negotiations is extremely uncertain. We don't know how it's gonna end. But at the same time, we're destroying our shipbuilding. Based on requests and negotiations with the European Union, the question is how will the shipbuilding sites go for sale end. I don't believe that at this point in particular the global economic crisis, there are interested buyers for our shipyard. And tens of thousands of people live among them. And the question is whether Croatia should take a break at this time and then restructure the shipbuilding that it has not done for years, and it should. And thus enable the survival of an industry that is extremely important in Croatia. So we are going to make an inventory of these relations with the European Union and make one dynamic that corresponds to the generality of Croatian interests. That's what we're looking for. We see that this is not in this programme in a certain way, but is once again an interest in the European Union as soon as possible. We are looking in Croatia for a party to the right that foreign policy meets the interests of Croatian national interests and not that foreign policy determines internal Croatian policy and there is one difference between us I would say all other political options and we insist on it. We also supported the proposal for a mandate because we believe that the party that has the largest number of mandates in the Parliament has the right to first try to draw up a government. However, for these reasons which are in this relationship with the European Union where we have one significantly different and more critical proposal we will not support this government even though we wish her much success in her work, we want her to succeed and we want her to lead Croatia out of the crisis. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35511	Thank you very much. It's time to discuss our distinguished colleague, Nadica Jelash. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35512	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The day after, so the day after the prime minister's resignation, one of our home papers, of course, addressed to his readers, wrote on his cover the following: "The government is ridiculous. What about you?". So, the government is funny but not certainly Croatian citizens after this government actually made Croatia a country record. What kind of record is that? First of all, we have the highest drop in gross domestic product in Croatia's history of 6.7%. The Croatian economy is literally reduced to an economy that does not only produce imports, in which everyone owes, spends and buys and VAT actually fills the state register. That's why we have a situation where only state spending is growing. So citizens are asked to save even though we don't know where more citizens could save and the state is spending more and more. So a satisfied state spends, builds bridges, owes itself to pay back old debts, rag holes in the budget, and creates new deficits. In one word, it works like one nakaradic "perpetum mobile" or even better as a Kutlin bike. He can't stop because if he stops, he'll fall. The Croatian government has unfortunately spent the past decade, spent years more available and cheaper capital without doing anything about restructuring the economy. And you see, that's why this crisis is much less importable than it wants to be shown and much more domestic "Made in Croatia". The crisis is, in fact, the greatest consequence of the government's indemnity. Let's count down a few more government records. We have the highest foreign debt of 40 billion euros, the internal debt is 17 billion kuna, the indifference is daily escalating, no one is paying anyone and the finance minister is lying on his shoulders with a comment that some have money but do not want to pay. So, as Government, there's nothing you can do about it. One wonders who can, then, who in this country can do anything about it if not the Government as the highest executive power. Furthermore, exports cover only half of the imports, the debt of citizens is 127 billion kuna, the average pension is only around 40% of the average Croatian salary, unemployment is growing. This has all been achieved by the government. So these are some achievements that Croatian citizens should fear the future. What the Croatian government did not achieve and was of course a strategic national goal for Croatian citizens is to join the European Union. In fact, Croatia has never been further from the door of the European Union than it is today and, in fact, with its resignation, the prime minister has recognised his greatest political defeat. But we wonder who will make up for the time, lost time, a lot of lost time for Croatian citizens. Now, that's what the government gave us and this reconstructed government continues with the same policy, the same program. This program we got today contains nothing new, and the password is the same "Let's move on" no one can really do anything to us. And it's this unprecedented arrogance as a synonym for the total moral collapse of Croatian society, for completely defrocked courts, for corruption as a way of ruling, for fully ineffectively we could literally paralysed justice, it's actually the greatest crime of this government and with long-term consequences. And as I said, the new government is moving on or on the same path. And all that Europe sees and all that Europe knows. Europe is impossible to deceive with hollow promises, and that's why we're not really in her society, but we're still at her door.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35513	One correction of the alleged esteemed colleague Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35514	I would correct the inaccuracy of my colleague when she said that we were never further from the European Union, when she said that we had recognised a political defeat in a certain way. You probably addressed that to the Prime Minister. I think that in this one of yours, therefore, it is an incorrect quote but in your claim when you say that Europe knows, sees it and it is impossible to deceive it, so I think and I hope that Europe will see, that all people who have seen the reasons why Croatia is standing at the door of Europe at this moment, even though it has never been closer to entering Europe. Therefore, the reaction or the decision of Prime Minister Sanader, as you have interpreted it, however anyone has interpreted it, is a direct contribution to the fact that this same Europe, among other things, is transparent, and that this small gap that has remained until the entry into Europe, happens as soon as possible and that we are no longer standing at the door of the European Union, because this people and this country have long been part of the civilised Europe, the Europe to which we belong. Finally, it would be good to see the opposition and opposition that you colleagues belong to because Europe sees and how the opposition behaves in the Croatian Parliament. And it's also a matter of responsibility and you take responsibility for that kind of behavior yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35515	Thank you very much. It's time for a distinguished colleague, Mirjana Feric-Vac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35516	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Mrs. Kosor, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. After about ten hours of debate, the government of the Republic of Croatia obviously touched all areas of government work, any and all areas of life in which citizens and citizens of one country feel the government is working. First of all, I think it would be if nothing else, and at least human correctly not to talk about how leaving the president is the way it was done, one big thing, that it doesn't show the crisis. Well, it's not someone else, it's the president who said we're in bananas, etc., inappropriate. The same president shows something to Croatia and Europe, so Croatians and citizens of the Republic of Croatia are shown something by success, shifts. And Europe, let us, there are also those in this Europe who have been very understanding of our problems in which we have found ourselves in the Slovenian blockade and in the unresolved situation, and I wonder what we are saying to that Europe at the same time, as we are telling it. All of us who are in favour and who really want to join the European Union know that entering the European Union is at the same time an opportunity, the capacity of the European Union for enlargement, but also the capacity of our own, in our country. So, personally, I think that Mrs. Kosor and her associates should take good care of the chapter 23 that we are harmonising, about justice, human rights, regardless of the Slovenian blockade that is of some passing character. I would also like to point to Mrs. Kosor on the page of your new government's 104th program, where in Chapter 28.1 on foreign policy, you say the following. First of all, we will complete the process of entering the Republic of Croatia into full membership of the European Union, of course. Secondly, we will continue with full intensity to meet the conditions for Croatia's full membership in the European Union. Something doesn't work either in sentences or in thoughts, and usually when something doesn't work in sentences, it's a reflection and thoughts. From the position of the SDP club, we may have said too often that since the date of entry into the European Union, we are far more interested in quality and we insist on it. And we're very aware of how difficult this is. That there are reasons why with the skepticism I welcome this composition of the government because I don't believe it, not because I don't believe in the ability of certain candidates and candidates for ministers, women and men in this proposal, but it's obvious that so far it's been manifested by the failures of the same some ministers and ministers, the truth with the other prime minister. It was in this House that we talked about interpretations on the subject of Croatian railways, energy, so for the roles of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in law enforcement and the exercise of the rule of law to protect human rights and human dignity, if you remember the case here for hours. The committees discussed trucks, asbestos, etc. Of course you rejected all of this, but you still couldn't erase the data and facts, traces, that the government was not doing well in these segments, and we didn't even use the European Union funds, and yet they are in the implementing measures of foreign policy, and these elections were many and still have them. Mrs. Kosor, who is probably an important journal, which is equally understandable, asked for the support of MPs, as the first woman in charge of the government. To appeal to the solidarity of women in politics is legitimately her right. But what women in the field of equality seek first is economic equality. Mrs. Kosor was Deputy Prime Minister when this House was debated, for example. about the textile industry where women are mostly employed. In doing so, she showed little solidarity with these women. Where is this solidarity when it comes to budgets and resources in different ways incentivising women and programmes of entrepreneurship, employment, etc.? What we expect in the rule of law in any country is free and fair elections, and that is what we expect as the gain of every democratic party to be realized in it. Therefore, women in social democracy, for example, they do not give or transfer functions at any level. Each position is secured by choice and there is no automation i.e. It's harder, it's longer, but it's more democratic and it's certainly longer, it's longer. Mrs. Kosor spoke of violence against women. Must be one big subject, one big problem. But when Mrs. Kosor asks for the solidarity of women, I would still be a little reminded of this solidarity, for example. with protégés of the Centre for Child and Youth Education in Osijek when there were doubts in the public that members of the HDZ may have been involved in sexual exploitation. Mrs. Kosor, these are, Mrs. Kosor, I would like to say that these are areas of solidarity, they are living and tomorrow's, the budget rebalance tomorrow will show a real attitude towards solidarity and equality, and not to forget the labour law that awaits us. She spoke to Mrs. Kosor about the crisis and recession in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, there was a lot more talk about this in the current class, and when you brought anti-recession measures, they came relatively late. We also warned in this House that the European Commission already adopted measures on 26.11.2008. The European Economic Recovery Plan. And so, when countries and worlds mate, they should be careful not to mix each other, for when mentioned, for example. Germany, it is the euro area country and some other countries fall within the area. So, there have been a lot of words in this House today, and I would very much like to see Mrs. Kosor act in her party so as to hear as little echoes as possible of the theory of blood and soil. We've heard a lot of that in this House today. There was a lot of stuff coming out of this country, including jewels, and eventually the president left. I don't know if the structures around him fooled him, did he at the right moment look at the clock, but he left. The government that Mrs. Kosor is proposing to us has the same program, little repairs, little maculature, etc. It wouldn't be a good idea to face a similar problem in a year and a half. Mrs. Kosor would like to order the following. A great European writer, and he is great, not in the language he wrote, but in what he wrote. He said don't read away my son, read the driving lines. They're much more accurate. I'd like Mrs. Kosor to base her policy on facts, numbers, and if that's what she'd insist on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35517	Thank you very much, colleague. It's my colleague Nenad Stazic's turn. Here's my colleague, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35518	Thank you very much. You came to the Parliament today to seek confidence in the government again within an election term. It will again be the government under HDZ leadership with another person at the helm, but the HDZ will again play a dominant role and coalition partners remain the same. You're coming to ask for trust. I will speak here of trust not in that constitutional meaning of that word, of the trust that is gained when most MPs 77 vote a government. I'll talk about trust in a colloquial or if you want the literary meaning of word trust. So, about the trust that one man trusts another man to be honest and honest. So you come for trust, and there's almost no person you haven't let down and there's hardly anything you haven't cheated on. You failed voters first, citizens of this country. You promised them a higher standard, a better life, higher wages, higher rates of growth, employment, a smaller government. You haven't fulfilled any of that. You promised them fair authority. That violation of that promise may bother the citizens more than anything else I've listed. It seems that in the six years you've been in power, you haven't taken enough care of these little, ordinary people, the people who trusted you, the people who voted for you. It was none of your business. I remember the last current morning when already the former prime minister could not answer a single question. Neither man knew because it costs a kilo of bread nor a liter of milk, nor a kilowatt of electricity, since the gas is in Croatia. He didn't know because it's none of his business. It wasn't his program in the last six years. That's the problem with those people who gave you trust. They have to think about it every day. You say you were driving at speed five. Yeah, you may have driven in the fifth gear, but in the opposite direction. The ship's broken, it's flushing, it's sinking. And what does the captain do? The captain is the first to leave the ship, leave, explain to no one why he's leaving. Get off the ship and he's still surprised when they call him a coward, a fugitive of responsibility. It's strange HDZ's behavior today in the Parliament. You're full of optimism for a new government without Sanader. That means he was in your way in the government, that you think the government without him would be better off when you're so optimistic. I said I'd talk here about the trust of ordinary, human trust of citizens to politicians who govern their lives, their fate. My dear gentlemen, the breath of corruption spreads through the earth, and that snot smells like a head. Several times today, a list of the affairs you've been involved in has been repeated. They're worth billions of kuna, and the same billions you're missing in your budget. It's not other money. This money disappeared in corruption affairs, “Sun-Hvar”, “Bechtel” 300 million dollars, “Imostroy” 6 million kuna, “Liburnia” 520 million kuna, “Sun-Ingrad” 60 million kuna, trucks 14 million kuna. You are able and able to change and promote everyone just so you don't get caught in the thieving, and you come looking for trust. You're offering the development of democracy in the government program. So look how you chose party leadership Saturday at your convention. Vikam, noise, no ballot box, no ballot card. Tell me one single party in a democratic world in which the party's leadership is chosen in such a way. A party that does not need to develop internal democracy within itself cannot guarantee democracy in society. Maybe he can write it in his program, but the key word I'm talking about here is trust. Today we will vote or we will not vote in confidence. How can people trust you? How can they trust you when you can't choose your own leadership in a democratic way? How can you trust you to choose your own leadership in an early Middle Ages. How? You're offering in the antifascism program. But again, I'm telling you the key word is trust. She told the prime minister today that for the governments of Ivo Sanader, monuments Yuri Francetic and Boban were torn down. Yeah, they're down. But hundreds of Partisan monuments of anti-fascism have been brought down for HDZ governments. None of them have been restored. Not one. You are talking about antifascism as a government programme and you are looking for trust, and your prominent member, not just a member, prominent, vice president, is celebrating Max Luburic's chair. You're looking for trust, you're asking to be believed to be anti-fascists. You've reduced the rights of NOB fighters, you've never returned them to that level that the Homeland War fighters have. And the key word for which you came to this House is trust. You know, whoever created the problem can't be the answer to that problem. The problems Croatia is going through today created by this government. It's been creating them for six years. Well, whoever the problem is, it can't be the answer to the problem at the same time. Do you have any legitimacy? You have, you will have a parliamentary majority, it will be a legitimate government. Unfortunately, there will be a government that has no moral right to seek trust because the country has led badly, because it has allowed corruption, because it does not punish corruption. Here, the prime minister says I'll fight corruption and mention the OIB. Oh, let the OIB go. Tell the tax administration to examine how much Prime Minister Sanader, now a simple citizen, has earned, how much he has paid his taxes and could he have bought the villa he lives in. You do that and you'll have confidence that you're a anti-corruption fighter. But if you don't, don't ask for trust. Mrs. Kosor, this was supposed to be your big day. It was broken by your HDZ. Out of 41 registered deputies for a 10-minute debate, only 7 of the HDZ Club reported. Obviously, in the 10-minute debates, I can't bring forward a reasoned debate, reasoned reasons why you should be prime minister. Apparently, their trust isn't genuine. All day long they've been harassing the public with their corrections of incorrect quotes in style, it's not true that this government is bad, and the proof is that it's good. It's mostly corrections. But the arguments haven't been made for you. It won't be easy for you to work with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35519	Thank you very much, fellow Stazic. Not as a correction of the quote because it should be given concretely then, but I can tell you that I know for sure about the monument that was restored in Djelekovec because I personally and arranged for the renovation and attended, so it does not say that none is renewed, and I believe that it is in many other environments, but for the correction of the quote also came from fellow Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35520	It is an incorrect quote from fellow Stazic that we are harassing the public with our corrections. It is true that you are harassing the public with your discussions. And another incorrect allegation, the HDZ assembly was held in accordance with the statute and decision of 10,000 members. We've decided how we're going to implement it, it's our legitimate right, and we don't think of the way you're making decisions in your party. It's your right, it's your choice and enjoy it. Therefore, a number of incorrect allegations, but do not enter into the way our party assembly works and do not enter into the correctness of our decisions. Focus on your party.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35521	Thank you very much. It's Professor Flege's debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35522	Thank you very much. We are convinced that this people need not the government of continuity, but the government of discontinuity, the government of a different programme and a variety of political and economic turns compared to what has been done here for years. We believe that this is particularly necessary in the field of education because we think that indeed as Vice President Adlesic has said, Minister Primorac has done a lot of things, we are adding techniques, but we also think that a lot of what has been done is completely wrong and we think that a lot of things should have been done, which has not been done. I am sorry that there is no mandate here, so I will address the Vice-Presidents, and in particular the Vice-President, who will be in charge of social activities and in a few words show what we consider to be the necessary discontinuity in the work so far. We find it necessary to do much more in the future than to be boastful of what has been done and to speak much more of the facts, not of what was intended to be done and of what had been done by God. We consider it necessary that if education and science are considered fundamental to the development of the country and especially for the new development cycle, science and education should not be spoken of in one half sentence. And we think, Madam Prime Minister, that as in a whole series of cases so far, someone planted a whole series of data, so I'm going to remind you of what it says on the website of the 66th Government Programme. The Law on Education and Education will be passed in both primary and secondary schools. Madam Prime Minister, that law was passed a year ago. The law on vocational education will be passed. Madam Prime Minister, that law has been passed. It writes by 2010 to create the most successful education system in the region. Ma'am, we're in the middle of 2009, and we're way behind the whole series of countries that surround us in which they've walked in steps of 7 miles, we've been back in a whole series of areas. We consider the required discontinuity and that education becomes a national priority, and the education budget grows slower than the national budget. We equally feel it is necessary that you actually formulate on page 67 that it is a high school for all, and when we suggest that you legally declare a mandatory high school, then you justify yourself to God's constitutional reasons for which it is impossible, although we express a whole series of reasons why it is not only possible, but also necessary. We consider the required discontinuity and when you say you need to ensure equality of access to higher education, and in your term of office over the past 6 years, high education has been very highly commercialised and in some way profited from the under-real 25% that in 2003 when you took over the mandate in higher education paid for tuition there are over 67% today, and it is known that education costs and that it is almost impossible. We consider the necessary Madam Prime Minister and Mr. Deputy Prime Minister who will take care of the social activities of discontinuity and in that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports ceases to be a negative recordr. During the six-year term, teachers had been very serious about the work, or strike, on two occasions. Last year, high school kids, because the ministry didn't just do the assignments, they went out on the streets three times. The students are in a lot of blockades and are threatened to restore the blockades in the fall unless they meet their demands, and no one has honored the ministry to come and talk to them. And that's where we consider the discontinuity needed. The more the higher education system establishes almost total arbitration. In the past six years, it has not been important to change the relationship between students and teachers among universities, but in some cases the budget of universities has increased 110% and more, and in some cases it has grown 57%. And that's where we also consider the required discontinuity. The integration processes of the university have barely begun, but we believe that some steps have been taken back in this area. So we still have 17 math departments at the largest university, we have over 10 physics departments and foreign languages, etc., etc., etc. So there's a whole series of changes needed. The more the more, the more I think about it now, the more actually inexplicable information. At the same university, we have five modes of study. Different colleges began the semester, finished the semester, set the test deadlines, started the second semester, ended the second semester, etc., which you can't explain to any rector or proctor from any of the countries. And finally, we feel it is necessary to introduce serious discontinuity about what the OECD report on higher education says, and in several places the OECD report reiterates a terrible gap between what you wrote about the situation of things and what we found. Between words and deeds, between saying the truths and the deceptions. We also believe that Croatia cannot withstand the burden of 27 or 28 public institutes and that they should be integrated or reintegrationd into universities since they were ripped out of them in '93. A year. That it is necessary at last to finance universities with an entire budget or so on. ... That it is necessary to examine the effectiveness of the Bologna process because last academic year ended the first cycle and began the second cycle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That the part of the programme called learning outcomes is never agreed with employers at national level. That it's a completely unresolved question of scientific recruits and that there's a sign of equality, and therefore a huge confusion between scientific recruits and assistants. Between science recruits and scholarships. So these are two completely different categories and that's where we should introduce them. Gentlemen vice presidents, we have allowed ourselves the luxury of falling to a tenth of post-graduate students over the past few years compared to what countries have in the environment. So while they have 3% of postgraduate students, we have 0.3% in the entire student population, and science doctors are the ones who are the most equipped to introduce and introduce us into something that is politically consensual. It's a knowledge society or a science-based society. So I would just like them to relax, let's say it gently, that some conglomerates of corruption and clienteleism will dissipate, to stop the domination of one scientific area of 8 as many as we have in Croatia, so we have 6 scientific and 2 artistic ones, to stop the domination of a single high school where three quarters of people who are currently managing the scientific system are concentrated and finally that this system is normalized, not only because of the system, not because of the benefits of everything that this system can bring to the whole country and all of us. In that, Madam Prime Minister, I wish you a lot of success because it will be a success for both our country and our entire country. But I warned you about this, and I kind of put out the catalog of those deziberatives that I think are primary in higher education, and I hope you'll listen to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35523	Thank you very much. colleague Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35524	Dear Mr. Vice President, respected future members and members of the government. Here's a little bit of class on this discussion, because it seems to me he's in Dr. Ivo Sanader and the appointments of the new prime minister, i.e. the new government, remained one and almost the only change in relation to Sanader's last government, which is the resignation of Minister Primorac and the appointment of a new minister of science, education and sports. Dear colleagues and colleagues, all governments so far, and the proposal for a programme of this new old government is not an exception. She declared the strategic and crucial importance of education and science. It is a commitment, now unfortunately only declaratively, in a situation of crisis, in an economic downturn which is our obviousness and only reasonable commitment. In contrast, though, our sad everyday life is that in no area like education, so little has been done, and so much time and money has invested in the creation of obsessions. The expectations were one thing, reality was another. Now former Minister Primorac has defined as a strategic goal in education that by 2010, the Republic of Croatia has the most successful education system in the wider region. This goal is also attributed to this new government programme even though we have already taken a good bite in the second half of 2009 and this 2010 will come to us obviously before the writers of the new programme hope. Let me quote a few key topics for developing a system of education and things that have not been done so far, which should have been done. Some of the things I hope will finally happen in the future, although despite the new minister somehow I do not believe that it will happen because of the almost same government that will have the same policy in the future, and what has been practically specified in the government's programme. So, what is what needs to be done in the field of primary and secondary education? First of all, the immediate adoption of the national curricula. Although procedures for taking curricula have been initiated, the council was appointed nearly three years ago, nothing concrete has actually happened. The curricula is important because all makeup in education is not so important until the substance is reformed. And that's what school teaches. Content should be relieved of unnecessary and outdated contents, methods to innovate, and the entire system facing outcomes. In this sense, I ask the new minister not to experiment in the future with expensive projects and la HNOS which did not bring much, but therefore cost a lot, which had neither scientific justification nor professional expertise, and then no practical applications. Second, perfecting teachers and teachers. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I usually know how to say that the Government can bring perfect strategies, we in the House can pass perfect laws, but that in education, or education, things are very simple, making them paradoxically infinitely complicated. When the school bell rings, everything stays on that teacher or teacher who's alone in class with the kids. It is therefore essential to invest in people in these teachers and teachers. I understand that the financial situation is difficult, but teachers and teachers' salaries are below the average wage level, although it is exclusively highly educated people. The height, or rather the level of salary of an educator, is a public shame for a country that likes to beat itself to being a state of knowledge. The funds for professional development in the budget are almost regular and, as a kind of sinister plan, are reduced year by year, and in budget rebalances and those famous redistributions that have been made past the Parliament are almost abolished as was the case last year. Aristotle has long concluded that if there are no carpenters in Athens, there will be people walking barefoot, but if there is no teacher there will be no Athens. So I repeat investing in teachers and teachers is not just a sectoral and trade union issue. I think it should become a first-class national issue. Thirdly, the Croatian Parliament adopted pedagogical standards last year with the application of which schooling conditions should be leveled. Now almost a year and a half after their adoption despite the government's obligation to report regularly once a year, the Croatian Parliament reports what happened in the previous year and what will therefore be done as an action plan for the current year. We didn't get those reports, and we don't really know if it happened or what happened. Standards should be carefully studied and made applicable. These Primorčevs are unrealistic with a period of application until 2022. At the same time, sub-presidential acts need to be brought into line with standards so that standards do not, for example, prescribe one-way schools, and when a mayor wants to build a one-way school, he cannot get a prior consent from the Ministry of Science for an architectural project, because the gentlemen in the ministry who are to be approved are working on old rules which, by the way, have not yet been changed and some tables that simply do not allow the construction of one-way schools. In short, standards should be reorganised and consistently applied in practice. With regard to school equipment, it is great to have smart records, it is great to put computers and other equipment in schools, but without educational software and expensive buckets are unusable, simply unusable. Because information in education doesn't mean that we fill schools with IT equipment. Information means using the benefits of new technologies that we need in this way to develop a new method of learning and teaching. Fourth, the Law on Raising and Education in Primary and High School, which is already mentioned, is said to be passed and brought by 15. Seven last year, because I don't think a government can afford a situation as it requires Parliament's confidence that it writes in the program that it will do something that it has already done. It simply does not have the right or simply the Government mocks all of us in the Parliament. However, despite all this, the law needs to be thoroughly reorganised, and I am referring to the rules relating to school management and the increasing autocracy of directors, i.e. local politics, local powermakers, primarily on school boards. In this material that we received also writes that the planned introduction of national exams into primary school with the aim of vertical passing of students from primary school Nama is a dropout from elementary school actually very low. And it is questionable how much more vertical fertility can be increased by the introduction of another obstacle, by the fact that there is a political one, but it seems to me now also a professional consensus on the extension of the duration of compulsory education or in some way educational high school, i.e. the acquisition of the first qualification. Fifth, especially with secondary education. The following year, high school graduates who will then graduate from high school will have an obligation to attend state high school. Although we can no longer return from this journey the results of the state's test graduation and national exams, it is necessary to examine and establish a curricula for secondary education, as it is one of the key objectives of external evaluation. Introducing innovation and improving quality. So far, it seemed so public that it was interpreted as being the value of a state graduation that they were replacing up-to-date exams for enrolment in college. This is not and cannot be the meaning of state graduation, and the question is how smart it is and ultimately formally and agreed with universities to accept the results of the state graduation as a key component of classification exams in enrolment. Sixth, further decentralisation into education. So you can't transfer liabilities, not funds, and you should think about maybe new steps in terms of programming decentralisation. Seven, textbooks. There have been many controversy about the textbooks of the future prime minister announcing that the free textbook project is likely to experience its death, which is not only rational at the moment but also a legal obligation under the law adopted by this Parliament last December. And in that sense, the ramblings of the former minister a week before the local elections on free textbooks for all not only were contrary to the law, which he himself suggested, but also represented a paradigm of management in a system of education that I hope we will never witness again. Reports without cover, projects without legal and professional justification, construction... which did not follow specific material. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, the system of education and education is crucial for the long-term development of the state. Investment in education is not consumption but investment, and it has never been more clear as before that the need for decisive and elaborate reform steps that must be followed in parallel by a series of smaller actions aimed at putting out the fires and resuscitating the existing situation. In that sense, the government programme we are discussing here today has not passed the exam. The programme in this sectoral section is full of phrases and generalities. The government is aware of the state of affairs and, in accordance with my own declaration of importance of education, I personally expected more and more concretely. Part of the expected changes are not planned, part of the planned changes are incomplete and incomplete and so far has been shown in practice and very often as confusing. Part of the planned reforms had not even begun and many started to be significantly different in nature than they were presented. For all of this, due to the obvious policy of continuity in education which has proved to be bad and chaotic so far, which ultimately led to the streets and students and students and teachers despite the new minister who is still part of the old team I cannot support either this programme and then not the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35525	Thank you very much. We have two credentials. First of all, dear colleague Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35526	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have to correct these incorrect allegations. It's just not true, colleague Lugaric. We are sitting together in two terms on the Education Committee. It hasn't been done that little in this area. On the contrary, the Croatian National Education Standard has been introduced, the budget has been increased since 2003 by 68% for education, only compared to 2008 has salaries increased in education by 10%. Also, for the first time we've reformed vocational education, we've introduced a pedagogical standard that you know we've never had, we've introduced a national prom, we've hired the largest number of professional associates, we've increased our students' standards, we've introduced free transportation and free accommodation in dormitories. You also know that in making a national curricula, that it's not easy or simple work, that it's not a job that can be left to the case, you know it so well. And that's why I think what we've done in education over the past six years you can't say in that sentence, "It hasn't been done as little anywhere as it did in education," the opposite.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35527	Thank you very much. The second application is a distinguished colleague of Suzana Bilic-Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35528	Thank you very much. counterpart Lugaric said the pay issue should become a first-rate issue. This is incorrect because the issue of wages has already been resolved or resolved in the first place. Comrade Lugaric, I am sorry to remind you what your government has done in 20011 on wages and do not now remind all of us here what the previous government has done and what it has continued to do until 2008 in the field of education. And one more thing. I should also remind you that the decentralisation of primary and secondary education started in 2001 when, or when your government established a fund of alignment without a real picture of the situation on the ground so that even today, the counties and cities cannot be satisfied with the distribution of funds that they did not respect, the original distribution did not respect the existing situation on the ground in areas affected by war and such.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35529	Thank you very much. Next is the debate of distinguished colleague Daniel Mondekar. Here you go, buddy. ... You're the one who gave up. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35530	I did.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35531	Comrade Mondekar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35532	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I will begin the debate so that I will just remind you that this morning the Prime Minister and the president of the HDZ Party have said from this speaker that the knowledge and education and technology society is high priority of this old government, so in my debate, I will only analyse the policy so far through clear examples and figures, meaning that the current HDZ government policy is compared a little with examples from the European Union, especially if we take into account that Minister Primorac soon told us that we can already measure ourselves with Europe and that we are already minors in Europe and that the Prime Minister here is the last time on the current clock again told us that we already have a knowledge society so that we need to talk a little bit and talk about it. The government's programme says at the very beginning of the education part, as counterpart Flego has already mentioned that the goal by 2010 is to create the most successful education system in the region. I don't know who wrote it, what was on his mind or under what influence that person was but our education system is still obsolete at this point, it's inflexible and looking at different European quality standards of education, especially European quality grids in education our study is still unquality. I have repeatedly said here in Parliament that Croatia does not have a single university in the first 2,000 best Europes, not 500,000, 2,000. We are in the number of 5 thousand total in the lower half, and this is an excellent measure of the quality and society of knowledge in the Republic of Croatia. Now, instead of growing highly educated, we have a stagnation, instead of encouraging young people to study with a wide range of incentives including free education for us today and you've read probably 65% of students pay for studies. The figure has increased, tripled almost in the last six years that pay for the study and pay for one of the medium, average, most expensive tuitions in Europe for one of Europe's unquality studies. So that's the same standard of knowledge society that we have now. So, if we were going to create a society of ignorance, then so far, the government has succeeded. As far as science is concerned, the truth is, the number of scientific projects has been increased but their amount has been reduced. The average amount of the scientific project in Croatia, I have already said this several times, is about 35,000 kuna a year. So you're dividing it by 12, so share it with a couple of scientists working on that project, say, so you're going to get a couple hundred kunas a month. It's ours at this point in science. The foundation for scientific research of scientific equipment is missing because you know that in this year three times less funds went for scientific equipment than a few years ago, three times less. And now let someone tell me what great scientific research is that can be applied immediately in the economy if we say the average is around 2000 kuna per month for the project. The government programme shyly mentions the 7th Framework Research Programme, a 55 billion-euro fund for knowledge and knowledge society projects. And we in the Republic of Croatia have 16m-euro projects, 100m kunas, but not annually. These are 3 to 7-year-old projects and are shared again by international consortiums. So these are the miserable amounts, and this is the fund, this 7th Framework Research Programme, to see, to compare ourselves with Europe, and to say where we are on a certain scale in the knowledge and knowledge society. It is similar with the integrated Lifelong Learning Action Plan. We haven't used it yet, and Dragan Primorac has promised it as much as he has for three years. Now he can't even do anything about it anymore, so he promised him, we're not participating, and we're leaving tomorrow without capacity, and we're all aware of that. No capacity, no money. We can read about the transfer of knowledge, technology and science and economy in all relevant government documents related to this sector. Here is a document that speaks about the scientific and technological policy of the Republic of Croatia in 2006-2010, but that is all we have in particular. A bunch of paper. That's it. As far as knowledge society is concerned, it should only be shown now, pointing to the European Union, so Europe has realized that one of the exits, not exits, but one of the exits from the crisis is also an increase in investment in basic innovation. In particular, it means a private sector related to science. That's what the state is looking at. And even one part of this microfinance that if you read which Europe is now running as a programme in which between 100 and 500 million euros will go into companies will also go into technology transfer. It's just an example that we need to follow. As long as we don't really develop it, as long as this government doesn't put knowledge society projects into its programmes, we won't do it. Some of the research we discussed here in the Assembly said that Croatia invests less than 3% of the total funds invested in projects of scientific innovation. 97% coming from the private sector. And we received a recommendation from Brussels that, especially because of the crisis, we raise it to 30% and there will be a concrete difference in our economy. We don't do that part of the job, of course. At this point less than 0.9% of GDP goes into science, and recently we had a 1.2 drop. And Dragan Primorac, in the same book as Vlado, promised 3% by 2010, by 6 months 3%. So it's quite clear that it's impossible, it's quite clear that less and less investment in science is being covered by the growing flossules and words. Our education sector, our scientific sector, our innovations are underpaid, inflexible, significant and unquality. And two creators are no longer here. One who's a minister so former, Primorac, soon. He cooked this almost a failure of a part of our science and education, kept telling us and making different promises for years. In 2004, he promised students international mobility through European programmes, the day today is gone, meaning five years later. The second is, of course, Ivo Sanader, who has said so many times that Croatia is a knowledge and knowledge society and that this noble goal has actually become a common flossule. And not to say, that's where we mentioned the salaries, you know what's in the union negotiation. GDP is down, so I think it has become clear to teachers that for a long time there will be nothing of wage increases. And about how seriously the government will be working on a knowledge society, depending on me personally on a few things, I'll mention two. First it concerns the Prime Minister. I hope that you will take over the Strategic Council for Science and Technology that Dr Ivo Sanader has led so far, so the consciousness is called and that you will be doing this job seriously, not just for the sake of the marketing PR. And the other thing is budget rebalance. If we will have greater resources for science, scientific infrastructure, according to both rebalancing and the first and second, if the state will provide funding for co-financing of major scientific international projects from the knowledge and knowledge society, there was no last rebalancing. So, with the last rebalancing a few months ago when we were yelling at the knowledge society again, there was no such thing as rebalancing. So if that changes then perhaps we can say that something is going on. Unfortunately, the grand purpose of becoming the most competitive state of the region in 2010 and the knowledge society will not be achieved. Unfortunately for you, unfortunately for me, citizens who wish to be educated or explored, so numbers and statistics have been saying the opposite of what HDZ has been saying for years. Our education will not become the best by 2010, it will unfortunately fall for a while. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35533	Thank you very much. We have two, four replications. First of all, my colleague Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35534	My colleague Mondekar, you said that the number of students paying for the study tripled during HDZ rule. So it's not just about detiming a society of knowledge but it has another devastating consequence, which is to stimulate a society of inequality. This means nothing but that knowledge is reserved for the wealthy, for those who can pay, to make a selection among young people, to create a society in which in a poor sense and knowledge of goods, wealth and health so whoever pays for it will be able to do anything, and who doesn't have it can't do anything. And given everything we hear all day about the tragic state of part of our fellow citizens in Croatia who are on the verge of poverty, we are moving to a society where we are less and less likely to have equal opportunities, the less knowledge will be available to everyone and the less we will be equal. And I don't recommend that to any society, and at least to our own, because it's one planted bomb under that society that could explode at any moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35535	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35536	Coliga Jurjevic, except that 65% of all Croatian students are forced to pay expensive, inefficient education in the Republic of Croatia, it is important to note that the amount of the tuition has increased by 10% in the last six years by the government's government that is shouting about the knowledge society per year. And what a trend it is now, is likely to continue. So I'll do it again. In the time of the biggest financial crisis in the Republic of Croatia, we have one of the most expensive and inflexible, most unquality educations, and it is not here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35537	Thank you. Next, he applied for the replica of his colleague Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35538	My colleague Mondekar, I don't understand you. You wonder by this miracle that HDZ governments have been a little bit isolated for scientific projects and science at all for years. And what do you wonder? About a billion kuna. What do you think you're doing? They don't have money, people. There is no money because 520 million kunas disappeared in only one affair, in the Liburnia affair. When they... dedicated “Liburnia” shares worth 520 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But one of the owners of one of the funds funded HDZ's campaign. Therefore, HDZ is not building a knowledge society, but a society of corruption. And as long as he builds such a society, don't let your colleague Mondekar hope for the money of science. Well, that would be really illusory.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35539	Thank you very much. Next, a colleague named Romana Jerkovic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35540	As a scientist, I can tell you another piece of information that you may not know, which is that other than what you said, which is that the scientific projects in total have less resources than the previous years, the Ministry of Science has remained due to numerous projects in Croatia for the past year 2008 several months of war. Also in 2009 scientific projects won only one month of a single month of war until about a month ago. So much for the story, the country of knowledge. Besides, another piece of information. Highly educated in Croatia has 18% and the average European is 30%. So, we are at the beginning of Europe, and even if we consider how much of Croatia is singled out by GDP for science, we can say that only four countries are below Croatia, that they are Latvia, Italy, Malta and Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35541	Thank you very much. A reply to the replica of my colleague Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35542	My colleagues, God has given Croatia 18% and more than one percent of those educated. We haven't gotten to that number yet, but this reminded me of something I forgot to say in the debate, but very good to see the total picture. All the funds for all new scientific projects to be approved this year are in the ranking of one or two major EU projects for international major scientific projects. Maybe a little more than two, but somewhere around here. There's a comparison.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35543	Thank you. And the last application for the replica of his colleague Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35544	Dear colleague Mondekar, unfortunately I have to agree with you that there has been a significant delay in the transfer of knowledge from the scientific and academic community to the economy. And very good HITRO projects, then the establishment of the Institute for Technology Policy and Development, which was precisely meant for these processes, unfortunately, came to a standstill. I deeply hope Mr. candidate for the Minister of Science and Education that you will find the strength and resources to restore this truly important segment of the work of scientists, that ideas are not trapped in some scientific works, because science without application and without increasing the general well-being is truly empty.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35545	Thank you very much. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35546	Comrade Franic, you really are an optimist. For you, these projects have stopped, and they remind me of that standard project to throw away the cornerstone, and then forget about it until the next election campaign. That looks like a... And some others. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35547	Thank you. The next entry for the debate is a distinguished colleague of Luke Denon's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35548	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, today we have lost a lot of time in these discussions but also in the great corrections of incorrect allegations to show and prove legitimacy and legality. I'm not going to look back on it so there wouldn't be a lot of corrections to the false allegations, whether this is all legitimate or legal now. But I have to say, it was really legitimate and legal before. The old government that will grow up and grow into a new government tonight where nothing will change much, the old government has, of course, worked these years on a programme that coalition partners have supported. It sounds impressive through the corrections of the wrong assumption that everything she's been doing is good. Statistically simply cannot be that everything the government did had to be good. I'm not going to list a lot of what was wrong with those numbers from the downfall of the social product, from the downfall of investments, from the decline of exports, from the decline of imports, I think we've absorbed it, that we've said those figures, and our citizens, if anyone's looking at us at this late time really don't care about numbers. The important thing is that they know they're not getting better. This subjective or objective feeling that they are not better in this kind of Croatia during the former authorities show statistics. It was nice to hear you in the opening statement when you said you were willing to listen to people. I agree that it's good for you to listen to people, but it's obvious that don't be offended, because I really don't feel bad about it, but it's one syndrome. It's not clear to me what it is about you, not just you personally, not without further ado, but with you in HDZ. You listen without further ado, but something's wrong. But it's obvious you can't hear. Because to hear what it is to our people, or what it is to our voters, then these bad moves and this persistent head-to-sand thing that the crisis is not there, then, if anything else were to be done. You also mentioned in your statement that even in our neighbouring countries, so you apostrophe of Hungary and other countries, some gross social products also fell, more than they fell in our country. But there's one big difference. There is a difference in these countries that these countries have done something about it. They've done something. Like what? if in Italy people go out and protest and demonstrate against anti-recession measures, why didn't it happen with us? Because these measures are gone and there are no people to complain about. I think that's the difference between the countries we compare with Croatia in which, although the crisis was known to be there, it seemed to be everything that was not recognised and everything seemed to be that no moves would be taken that would at least alleviate it in order to make it easier for us at some point. Also, you said in this program, I'm not going to analyze it until the end now, but he's like his colleagues said, maybe it's because you didn't make it, but he's pretty general, so you say we're going to stand up for it, we're going to do it and so we're going to do it. I'd prefer to hear if in the near future because we can't otherwise call the IMF for help. Whether or not we're going to handle it ourselves that's piled up, I'd be happier not just me, but our citizens if they'd heard it tonight than you. Now I'm gonna say something that doesn't seem to be a good start for you. You said this morning when I was driving early in the car to Zagreb, whether it's true or not, but the news was so transmitted, that you wouldn't, because someone wrote that wages and pensions would be reduced, that you wouldn't lower your salaries and pensions until the 10th month, and then we'll see, so it says something in the paper, and then we'll see what we'll do next. Can I say something? You're not inexperienced. You were the vice president of the Government of the Republic of Croatia until yesterday. You know very well what happened in Croatia. We can say it on your part that it's good, on my part or on the part of the citizens that it's not good, but you know what's going on in the Republic of Croatia. A serious candidate for prime minister today at the 6th month, at the 6th month, must know what will happen at the 10th month. You have today, reading only the paper, not consulting Shuker, not consulting your other colleagues, you know today that the gross social product is falling, that the tourist season will not be good, that some other indicators will not be good, today it is known. Based on such knowledge, a serious candidate should know what will be done in the 10th, 11th, 12th, not to say in the 1st or 2nd month of next year. Here, it's the mother of this performance of yours today because you didn't tell us that you had the will and desire, the will and the desire to, despite this information that is known to everyone, the data that is spoken to you by the employers, the data that speaks to employment institutions, the data that speaks of a full or empty state register, that is all the data on which it can be justified and assumed what should happen at the 10th, 11th or 12th month. Here, I don't think there's a single word in your opening speech right now. And what's going on in Hungary or around here, you know our citizens don't really care. As far as they're concerned, they care about what it's like with us. And they want to know if you have the strength and the ability, maybe even that, but will, do you have the will to and such accumulated problems start to solve. Because you've had problems before. You've had problems so far. Let me say how much we warned on this side that there was a crisis, that there was something to be done, that there was some kind of anti-recession measure that needed to be done, so, no colleague of mine would get angry, some of them, but they were written, and they weren't implemented. When you go out with these concrete things, if you go out, will they also experience the fate of those anti-recession measures that have seen the light of day, but have not been implemented. It's a question that interests our citizens, and so I would ask you to have sympathy, of course, but since it's the old government, just under the cover of the new government, I think that at the moment you said today, we are deeply aware of the moment where we find the situation extremely serious, I just wrote down here, finally, after a year of warning on this side that something should be done, that the situation is serious, you said it the first time today. A personal question you don't need to answer. What happened yesterday that you said that? What was different yesterday? Yesterday was just as serious, but yesterday you didn't talk about it as Deputy Prime Minister, and you had the opportunity to try to influence politics to make something happen and start something. And because I doubt that you will have the courage and strength to say today that it is extremely serious and that we are deeply aware of the moment we are in, to have the strength to do what you said here today. They were alive and seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35549	Thank you very much. We have two reported replicas. First, my colleague Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35550	Your Honor, Vice President. Comrade Denon, I think you've touched the key thing. To listen, not to hear, and that's what we've been warning about for a year. We warned that Croatia would face problems, we wanted to help this country through proposals. However, it is better to send amendments and amendments to the law than to accept proposals from the SDP. It's better not to take any anti-recession measures than to take 26 SDPs of anti-recession measures we've sent to the procedure. All 26 anti-recession measures you've rejected and that's what's crucial. We suggest, you don't listen to us and what's happening is happening, and we suggest for good reason, we propose because we want all together well to this country and that's one of the key reasons. If you were listening, then even this program that's standing right here in front of us wouldn't be like that either. At a time when we have 20% less resources, you gave us a program that requires 50% more funding. It's just unreal. It's impossible to execute. That's what we're talking about here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35551	Thank you very much. The second replica is the esteemed fellow Stazic. Now you've just pulled out... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35552	A colleague of Denon's.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35553	You need to find yours, you borrowed this one. Comrade Stazic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35554	Comrade Denon, you're making a big mistake. You're saying the HDZ government doesn't recognize the existence of a crisis. There is no crisis for these people. That crisis doesn't feel at all. The crisis is felt by those, I suppose, 5 grand who have lost their jobs recently because of two too stupid laws, smoking and doing business on Sundays. The crisis is felt by those at which the banks have now raised interest rates, and they don't know how they'll pay for the loans. But the crisis for the one who blacked out 14 million kunas in just one truck purchase doesn't exist, not this year, not next year, it doesn't exist for life. How the crisis will exist for someone who here in the Parliament decides that Branimir Glavas can defend himself from freedom so that he can escape, and then proposes a golf law that I can only vote against Branimir Glavas and vote him. And under the law, HDZ sponsors will "Skiper" d.o.o. which we know reliably that at least 3 million kuna donated to HDZ to register on state land. And now you're saying they stick their heads in the sand and don't admit to the crisis. They don't have a confession because these people don't feel it or feel it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35555	Thank you very much. My colleague in the Rules of Procedure, you know there's no replica on the line, but that's why there's a reply to the replica and there's a colleague named Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35556	Well, fellow Trainer, your colleague Mondekar is, and I haven't been able to raise my hand. My thesis is that this government has to have an old or new one, even though it's the same one, it's got to have some kind of a chance. I'm just glad to hear today that the moment is deeply aware that the situation is extremely serious and that something needs to be done. I was merely suggesting that Mr. Schucker was too close to you Madam Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and that you should have asked him, not read the paper, he should have been asked where the biggest cost of our budget is going. He made it very clear that he was going into wages, pensions and other donations. As much as Mr. Shuker, almost 90%. So today I expected there to be money. We don't have any other money. I expected you to say today that we could save where. We should cut. You had to tell me where. But you said today that those salaries or eventually pensions would be somewhere in, the subject of the 10th month conversation. I repeat again, a serious candidate for prime minister today must know and predict according to this available data, along with a team that has what will happen at the 10th month. What's going to happen at the 1st month. Don't get me wrong. I remember something else from your speech, but it may be sweet, but as I am extremely serious, I like that little fish you'll make a bra and you'll make a hot potato you said a good salad. Yeah, but you know, don't just bake us some hot soup that we're gonna eat at 12 months, which isn't gonna taste very good.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35557	Thank you very much. The next entry for the debate is distinguished counterpart Bruno Kurelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35558	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed prime minister, respected minister and minister of the future government, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here's where the 11th hour of this debate is going to be ticking, and I believe there's a fatigue of material, so I'm going to cut my discussion down optimally. During the day I spent most of this debate in the hall, that I must already admit that this place upstairs provides a good hearing effect, but an even better visual effect, and on the faces of those who will support this government and this Prime Minister I saw today, I say it is my subjective observation of two things. First, you're just saying we have enough hands and the government will be voted. But what I saw the second, and this is about the next, is that my subjective impression is that there is no confidence as it was on January 12th when we found ourselves here on this same mission and voted the trust of the then government, that is, this old one, and today probably the new government. Of course, there was also a pilot here with you who is not present and who is probably missing in the impasses of everyday reality. Personally, as the man who came into these assembly benches from a concrete profession, whose criteria for success or failure are logical consent, I say logically done, I must now say that I cannot trust the old new government. In fact, this old new government is the government that has only lived through certain structural changes, very small, something more in design form, and the program that we have here today is also an old government programme. Based on what is said, and as a man... here I heard in these debates that some of them don't agree with their opinion, I'm going to single out a few elements that I'm going to try to argue with this statement of mys. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] First. The recipe... And to our country. [[The speaker is away from the microphone, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35559	Let's not shut down.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35560	... which requires urgent and clear and answer. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] But did you gentlemen from the old government spend your time outsmarting with us and the opposition, but did the public really come to us? At the time, the opposition offered certain solutions that had been rejected by the ease of inconclusiveness. And while the negative trends in the economy grew with them and unemployment, liquidity problems tightened up with debt problems you used to comfort us so all this is happening today and here it's nothing, because it's happening everywhere in our environment. And then when there were no more escapes, you started the treatment phase with your anti-recession measures. However, the disease had already spread quite a bit, and during the treatment phase, you did not use a loading dose, in fact, rather than say that it was placebo therapy, you were giving vitamins for local choices. At a time when it was immediately started with cytostatics because the tumor that evil recession had already erupted here. Of course, following this, a number of co-creators of this kind of bad condition appeared to you, and these were requests from government and public officials, unions, farmers, here, and outside the misunderstanding to formally bring us closer to the circle of European values. Third, borrowing is promoted as a success. 750m euros would be fine if the money was to contribute to the creation of a new value, which will then bring additional profits. The new debt to be read from the public information funds and the way you talked about it was that these funds would be to pay off debts and to keep as much liquidity as the budget. And what's the reason? I guess it's a state of mind. Madam Prime Minister, you say, this is no time to panic, this is the time to work. The main issue is the content of this work and its effectiveness. Fourthly, I've heard a very interesting thesis these days, and I think you, I'm glad you're here in the hall, Mr. Maric, told me when there was a debate on the annual report at HBOR. For liquidity in our country, it's largely low business morality. I absolutely agree with you. In fact, it's an excellent finding, it's just a question of what's causing him and his awakening? Who's he regenerating? When we clear that up, and we should do it as soon as possible, actually right away, because the speed and efficiency of the rule of law on this matter will be solved by great evil. Fifthly, you Madam Prime Minister, and today in your opening speech to us, we must continue the decisive work that has begun the former government. A fierce fight against corruption and organised crime. Personally, like a large part of the public, I see no significant shifts in the field of political corruption, I speak political corruption. And this particular area creates public perception that political corruption has reached a level that corrupts politics. I'm sorry there is no Mr. Shimonovic here, although he was almost there all day, but let's remind ourselves. Somewhere in his opening speech when he became minister, he said of a surgical scalpel, a tool to solve this segment. We can see it's not like that after all. Perhaps acting in the field of organised crime and other areas of corruption, here it is now, that surgical scalpel dulled.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35561	Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35562	And that's what's happening. Gentlemen, I see the red light is me... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35563	Third time colleague, please finish the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35564	... I can't give support because this whole action of the old new government could... /The speaker turned off./... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35565	Thank you very much. A distinguished colleague, Emil Tomljanovic, came forward for the debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35566	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to start my discussion with an analysis, and I think it's really necessary at this point for the President of the Republic to be in these situations. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which determines that the President of the Republic of Croatia is entrusted with the mandate for the assembly of the Government to the person who, primarily, based on the distribution of seats in the Croatian Parliament and the consultations carried out, and the second enjoys the trust of the majority of all representatives in the Croatian Parliament. I repeat all MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Furthermore, members of the Government or members of the Government shall, in accordance with the constitutional provisions, propose a mandater to whom the President of the Republic has entrusted the term of office for the composition of the Government, based on the evidence presented of the unquestioned support and immediately concerning the assembly of the Government by 30 days from the date of acceptance of the term of office. I will also mention that the mandater is obliged to present the programme of government and government to the Croatian Parliament and ask for a vote of confidence with the provision that the Government will take office when the majority of representatives in the Croatian Parliament show confidence. My colleagues and colleagues, this review of constitutional and legal provisions had to be made and re-edited because it is precisely from these provisions that follows. First of all, the distribution of seats and the trust of most of all MPs are only, I repeat only the constitutional and legal standard and the criteria of legitimacy and understood in a formal and material sense and observed it from a constitutional or political point of view. Secondly, it is formally understood that such a conclusion stems from cited constitutional provisions and, in a material and legal sense, understood as a legitimacy for the realization of the programme, but also from the identification of persons therefore responsible for the realization of it. And thirdly, all objections to the lack of legitimacy and in any sense in this situation should be rejected, they are indeed not justified and the application of any other criteria and references to early elections are not acceptable in any case. The answer to the question why these proposals are not acceptable with the emphasis on the fact that the proposed Government headed by the Prime Minister has the support of most of all MPs to find the next one. This is exactly how the proposed solution and just what and only such a solution at this time guarantees, in the shortest time period, the stability of the functioning of institutions which could not be guaranteed by the Government of the transitional period, or as we call it, the technical government, the second continuation of reform processes, in particular, the continuation of anti-corruption and organised crime at all levels, which means further reform of the judiciary and public administration, all of this immediately and now. It is also very important to point out that this third element, therefore, is the adoption and, within the shortest possible period of rebalancing of the state budget, which, from the position of public finances, will have to respond to the obvious problems of particularly economic and social nature under the conditions of the global economic crisis and recession, will naturally be seen as a response to the emerging circumstances. Any other solution is unacceptable because it would contribute to a significant deepening of the crisis and would not be a step towards solving the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35567	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. It is now up to the debate of distinguished counterpart Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here's my colleague Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35568	Well, here's what we've heard today. There's a lot of poison in there. A lot of it. A lot of it. A lot of it. And being six years in an uninventive, untrustworthy, unconvincing opposition is really not painless and I can understand it. But I don't think that by insulting, humiliating future members of the government, you've achieved any effect as well as imaginary affairs that you provide neatly with all of them, especially the members of the European Commission who said so, and they include them in their important arguments. Well done. But it's in the SDP tradition. I remember breaking up with the IMF where your presidential candidate and I escorted them last from Croatia, where your presidential candidate spat on his own country as no one has ever done before, and the question of why he's doing it, so he says they know it anyway. We have received countless delegations in the Croatian Parliament regardless of the parties, no one has ever spat on their own country except your presidential candidate. But here, when he becomes president, then he'll be able to walk around the world and do it further. It was all the way down here to Gazimestan and stuff like that. But I can tell you, in Gazimestan, it was called for the conquest of other people's territories, with us at the HDZ Assembly to defend our own territories. It's just a problem for the Slovenians to erase the memory to forget what they were promised. Now, that's going a little harder because with us, all your stories were about corruption and we know that the stories of corruption go beyond three people. One is the president of a parliamentary institution that increases corruption by 5% every day in the halls. Okay, and a neat picture. The second writes books on corruption, the third from the college department talks about corruption by forgetting corruption with, say, post-mortem aids and so forth. So, what's the effect? None of them did anything but increase the perception of corruption. Here, colleague Jovanovic is the hottest... But I can see the panic because obviously the pharmaceutical industry is getting weaker and weaker and it's going to be worse when people read a book about medicines there lately or Mrs. Lydia Gaski's delusions, and I'm afraid there's gonna be less money than the pharmaceutical industry, but the SDP has always managed and I guess it will continue. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not only should the yellow press be read, it is convenient sometimes to read a book. Here, today I was surprised by the fact that other than the massive attacks of fellow Stazic, he was changing his toy. So they're no longer trucks now is something else. Obviously with the trucks we got to the wall, all the arguments were such that there was no evidence of corruption anymore, but it was interesting. The first statement was if someone stole $15 million, the second sorry wasn't 15 but 10, the third we were kidding 5 million. The fourth statement was so nobody stole anything but they could have been bought cheaper trucks, is it for an army that's cheaper and if the headquarters asks for more expensive buy more expensive and then you're guilty. And at the same time a year before that when fire tanks were purchased there 200 and I don't know 10, 30 Mercedes type pieces per pattern like these 39 trucks, then everything was fine. Gentlemen, if the commission for 39 was what it was for 210 and I doubt there was any commission in either case. But if Mercedes was bought, if the quality Mercedes tanks were purchased, which nobody is against it, and why should the army be cheapest especially if the headquarters is looking for something else. But here's what's here. We can do it neatly. The important thing is that they're all guilty. And most obviously, gentlemen of the SDP, the most important thing is your painting. You're attacking the television if you're broadcasting someone's speech, and if you gave another 150 speeches, it wouldn't have been as much as a few of you have taken pictures lately. You've been photographed neatly every day, whenever you spit on HDZ and government. So much for the bias of the media. We're talking about no social services, no one cares about social services, no one does. Here we are talking a moment ago and here we are, here on the Adriatic, importing cooks, maids, waiters, importing construction workers, importing everything alive. What about the unemployed? Obviously, they're well protected despite everything because that huge imports wouldn't be. Look at some other country, Spain, Turkey. Everyone gets involved during the season, everyone. There's some kind of money waiting neatly for us to get at the employment desk, and it doesn't matter. You boast of anti-recession measures. Whether these are measures or just intentions to show that you are doing something as an opposition, because the perception of the public is that as an opposition you do not exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35569	We have reports of two corrections to the quote. First of all, dear colleague Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35570	A colleague's finding was made up that it was fictional corruption... /The speaker turned off./... Come on, geniuses, stop pushing this. How's it going with the computer where there's 50 bots? So you're making up a colleague or you're not telling the truth, because you're not making up the money that went missing in those affairs, in these ridiculously imaginary affairs. You think it's crazy, and the European Commission, you think they're crazy and the media are American, say "Washington Times," you think they're all crazy, and by the way you're all lying, and you insult the unemployed, and you say they're doing very well, so they don't want to work, so we're down by the sea introducing labour, they'd say shame on you, be a little unemployed, and then...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35571	Thank you, colleague Jurovic. It's been a while. Correction of the quote, colleague Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35572	It is not true that we attack HRT because it conveys someone's speech, but we warn that Croatian broadcasting as a public service does not respect the Law on Electronic Media, which is intolerant. Croatian broadcasting under the Law on Electronic Media must not, except at the time of the campaign, broadcast special special shows with party gatherings, which is exactly what it did. And she's done it the first time since it's been public TV. And this was done by the editor of an information programme that was once a member of the HDZ Central Committee, your party. And it's not true that it was the Prime Minister's farewell speech, as she said, because the prime minister had his farewell speech in the Bane Courts, and he should have had it here in the Parliament that he dared to come here at all, rather than apparently dare speak only in front of his party like-minded, but public television.../The speaker turned off./... I know the law means nothing to you, but it means nothing to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35573	Thank you. I didn't hear anything we fixed. But a respectable colleague, Boris Kunst, applied for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35574	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You're right about everything you said, because that's after the whole day of strangulation of our colleagues from the SDP, which would certainly be envied by a Boston strangler as much as they did today, repeating one and the same as if they swallowed a gramophone plate because they basically didn't say anything new, except what they were supplementing themselves in their stories, and apparently they have one complex of former prime ministers, Prime Minister Sanader, because they often mentioned it. For the sake of the public, we need to tell the truth. This government carried out selective savings with full social sensitivity. The peace of this time of this government isn't even cut. It should be said that unemployment benefits have been raised by 13.6%, and the new Employment Law has increased benefits for the unemployed as well. Social categories that are the most endangered in Croatia have not been taken a lip. I believe you understand that, Mr. Jovanovic, that these are pensioners and unemployed. Similarly, no expenditure on maternity and parental support has been touched. The child's allowance hasn't been cut. I remind you, there has been no intervention in any law governing social rights in this country. The funds to encourage small entrepreneurship have been increased, the amount to subsidise the loan by 10.5 million kuna for entrepreneurs, the planned funds to boost 44 million kuna exports. The minimum wage law, which I was already telling you about, has been increased. All the material rights governed by the collective agreement are not touched by the social partners, unlike you who did it if you remember and therefore this government has paid more than 2 billion kuna. And now I could repeat to you the information I've told you before about...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35575	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35576	But time's up. So that's just how much you realize how socially sensitive this government actually was compared to that of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35577	Thank you very much. The replica was Mr. Markovanovic. And the replica was further answered by Mr Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35578	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Markovanovic, I am in my criticism today when I had a debate over this speaker, I have not mentioned a single word to the National Council on which I chaired, but I spoke as a representative of this Parliament, Zeljko Jovanovic. And I invite you to read the European Commission report on the work of the National Council in which you will see what recognition the European Commission gives to the National Council to improve the fight against corruption in Croatia and to improve citizens' awareness of the need to engage in the fight against corruption. And that corruption in Croatia is a major problem says civil society, journalists say, says Justice Minister Shimonovic, the entire Croatian society says. Therefore, Zeljko Jovanovic, as president of the National Council, will continue to do what his job is, conduct surveillance of the Anti-Corruption Strategy and warn of problems, flaws and encourage the introduction of new measures that have one goal: to prevent corruption, regardless of which party it came from, and we know which party has been in power for six years and which party is the most responsible for the state of the fight against corruption in Croatia - HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35579	The answer is not a replica, colleague Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35580	Well, I don't really know who to answer to, because Mr. Jovanovic is speaking in the third person, I don't know this Jovanovic or the one he's talking about, but it doesn't matter. I'll take one and the other. So, the incredible abuse of the place Mr. Jovanovic is acting on. Why? Because he collects cheap points for his own party, that's one thing. Secondly, it's obviously a slogan for everyone and also for the European Commission where she spits beautifully on her own country, talks against, without arguments, without anything. And clearly, he tells me there's nothing to do. Here I think our ministers there from the beginning of the order will list all the actions they do, how they work and how much they work. But, gentlemen, you are not satisfied if someone is not charged with HDZ. There were allegations and they should have been brought to an end with ministers from your former government. But maybe the same one of these candidates becomes, it seems to me that it's very convenient that man is more against the country and the more he nods the greater chance he has of a top, for a president of the state. And one of those candidates who was supposed to be in prison is simply talking about honesty today, regularly talking about honesty, forgetting that he had properly set up hundreds and hundreds of jobs for his own companies, and you admired him. It would be good if you supported him. It's not Chucky, and maybe it is, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35581	Thank you very much. And the third replica, dear colleague Boris Matkovic. Here's my colleague Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35582	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, I absolutely agree with you fellow Markovanovic. So I'd like to remind you that you've forgotten something and I'll fill it in. Perhaps you should have mentioned to your colleagues that they too have their large Maester and Rijeka Bank, so they have Viktor Lenco, so they have yachts that are vessels from Kvarner to Dubrovnik, and also in Dubrovnik some hotels, so it would not be bad to know that we are a little reminded of these things.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35583	Thank you. The reply to the replica Krunoslav Markovović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35584	Well, I haven't forgotten. Today, my colleagues and colleagues from the SDP reminded me when they said we were all on the same boat. And now imagine what a degradation it is for them, because they've made decisions on a yacht, and now they're only on the same boat, clearly Mr. Supreme. Yeah?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35585	Thank you very much. Next is the debate of counterpart Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35586	Thank you. Well, at the end of the day, I don't think there's a lot of debates left... I think so. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] I said a long time ago I won't use ugly words, but poor parents whose... And he's got trouble everywhere. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] I feel sorry for my parents, 'cause everyone's a diet, no matter how old they are. You see, we're politicians... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35587	Well, I think we should be serious. We have a few more discussions and...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35588	Maybe he's serious, but he doesn't know. He's playing. When he was a kid, they didn't buy him toys. So, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the future government. So we are all politicians here in this Chamber, and in itself it is understood that politics is such a human activity that is primarily characterized by an concept called the public. This means that our work not only needs to be public, but must at all times be subject to the court of that public. At all times, that public not only has the right, but it can also require politicians to know why it works one way or another. You see, at this point, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor is taking over the helm of the future government. I don't envy her at all. I also wished in my one-morning address all the best, and I'd like this job to be done as best as possible, and it won't be easy for her, and I think she'll be able to do it in the light of all that, in a satisfactory way. But one thing should not be forgotten. This government begins under the rule of a great mystery that neither Agatha Christi nor Poirot nor SOA nor POA would solve, etc. And that mystery is why did this same government in a small decorative now changed composition abandon its leader and prime minister? They mentioned a ship, captain of a ship, bus drivers jumping out, bus passengers, low-rises, no brakes. It's not just a figure of speech. I assure you that in politics, it is called another name of irresponsibility. And not just irresponsibleness. It's called still kind of boastful. He was obliged and therefore today we rightly mention him, he was obliged to explain to the public whether he was performing a public duty, one of the most ranked in this country. Why is he leaving? This is how it becomes at the price of women fortune tellers, different psychics, different weirdos, and some of them are stupid, and I don't miss God in this assembly either. Well, I even, in part, forgive all sorts of things I don't know what to call strange statements that we've heard today by ruling because they're more confused or more confused than we are in opposition. Well, we've been against that government from the start. We've been acting like such a position, and it's really not easy for you to explain what happened from the skin of those in power. First, how will you explain it to me or to the public or to anyone when you can't explain it to yourself. So it seems to me that this government that I really want all the best moves in one strange atmosphere and that's not good, and my prediction is that this question will not stop being asked after today's end. And don't be surprised people ask that. For much less things that bear much less responsibility, people are obliged to explain when leaving a place, and let alone a prime minister or prime minister. And by this we have become specific in the world and there is no need for me to explain to you what you all know, that today, if they are surprised, not only is Croatia beautiful for summering, small, beautiful, we return to nature, but they are surprised that this small, beautiful, strange country and politicians are acting strangely. Not in line with the customs that rule the beginning of the 21st century in the world of politics in civilised, organized and politically arranged societies. And that's why it's a legitimate question. And even here, I don't think any ideological signs play any role. At the end of this day, I just want to make a point, trying to tell you that you're not as surprised as we insist on this question, as I'm not surprised at you for not being able to answer it. And to you, Mrs. Kosor, I repeat, it won't be easy, and I'm afraid you'll have to prepare for tons of that potato salad you made this morning, or your hands will fall off or you'll last, but speaking figuratively, you're getting into the fog, we're all in the fog. It's a strange time these days in Croatia, you know, steaming some tropical climate, monsoon rain, between Split and Zagreb last night was heavy fog, fog all around us, said Josipa Lisac, and God told me the most at the top of politics. And that's why I'm not paraphrasing some famous statements about the Croats, about the fog, and mentioning some domestic animals there, but I'm going to say, it's not easy when the government finds itself in the fog, and it's even harder for those who should follow it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35589	It also has the influence of the South. Replica, Mr. Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35590	Dear counterpart Jurjevic, here's a question you asked and wondered which reasons stood in the departure of Dr Sanader from the scene of the diameter. Well, I would say one theory that says that in the flood of reality shows in Croatia such as Big Brother, Farm, Changing wife and the like, is Dr. Sanader, since he was jealous of the popularity of a certain Simone in the manner of a top-notch artist can... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35591	Dude, I can't play cartoon. Let's get some lifts. Why do you run like this... Replica reply, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35592	Mr. Chairman, don't be surprised at anything. Don't be surprised at anything. This is one political conceptual act, perhaps not yet the public has understood, so neither you with all your brains and respect that I feel for you and your powers of judgment, but it's hard... /The speaker has been excluded./...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35593	That was the replica? The answer to the replica? Did you refer this question to yourself or to whom? President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Luka Bebić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35594	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs. The government proposed here is a government that is legitimate and will be based on the Constitution and the law and that should not be further discussed, but who challenges legitimacy? Who challenges the legitimacy of this government? He's challenging the election, and he's asking God not to ask questions because it's going to go a lot worse than it is right now. This time I won't talk about the SDP, I answer only, I want to comment on the clubs, the SDP representative didn't give me the material to talk about much, although some discussions were such that they needed to be answered. So I'm going to answer the smaller party in the opposition, the bigger the noise, the bigger the noise. We listened to that noise this morning, and unfortunately you were pulled out of the assembly after they said it all. I don't know why, but I have to say, they're marked by arrogance, arrogance, potency, disqualification and insult. That's the character of that debate on behalf of the club. And that's the style of that two. They don't know anything else. Who see themselves as self-called saviors without political and moral qualifications to be so. This has nothing to do with it, but they insist on the Croatian public. So many disqualifications and insults to HDZ, and especially to Dr Sanader, we are freed of too much consideration in responding to their insults, their arrogance and arrogance. Who's offering us that? Who so longs for power? The party leader, a man who's been celebrated in many areas. He didn't keep the mayor's seat, and he wanted to. Two years before the elections, he harassed the Croatian public with the prime minister's candidacy as if the prime minister was elected in the elections, not the MPs. So bored the Croatian public with no results in the elections. Then, announced a bid for mayor of Zagreb, he forgot to enter the Parliament. A man forgetful. He would forget Croatia, too, because he himself is important, and the prospect of running for president of the Republic is because he announced it. Only if he forgot. And "Coning" and 37 companies are running away from Croatian laws. A nursing home in Dubrovnik, a secondary school centre in Zadar, has been fraud to 76 companies in Israel for over $7m, for which there are two powerful verdicts by Israeli courts from back 12, 13 years. There is also a conflict of interest, I mean in the Croatian Parliament, etc., and I personally like him very much. That's how I stood up for him to enter the Parliament. If he were to enter the Parliament, it would be easier for us to de-commit, and we wouldn't be texting through others like this because I don't see any of that party that he could pass it on to. But arrogance, insult, haughtiness goes beyond measure. It's not here, I'm a little embarrassed, but it's not even Sanader here, so it's on the wallpaper all day, so so so can he. In 2000, the gentleman publicly called HDZ the small party HDZ, which was then the largest of the next parliamentary parties in parliament. That little stranger called it that, today his big party is 11 times weaker than the small party HDZ because it's 66 to 6. And it's turning more and more into a little regional party. And they want to rule and pray to God that Sanader doesn't come back, because all the time they're gonna... Sleeping expecting the possibility of him coming back anyway. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who's worth it eventually will come back, one way or another. And don't worry about it too much. I see a great worry that he's gone, but I think it's bigger if he comes back. For this reason, I thank you all for all the constructive discussions of my fellow MPs and MPs because I am convinced that most of them were well-intentioned. Because today's debate should primarily be about the government's programme and what the prime minister here has proposed to us both on the human composition and on the government's programme, and that was the reason why we're meeting today because we've absorbed this thing on Friday as regards the government that gave it, the Prime Minister who resigned. But it looks like Sanader's nightmare is gonna be a long time. We think that we can go further responsibly, energetically, respecting all circumstances, not closing our eyes to problems and that Jadranka Kosor, as she has announced, will succeed in overcoming this brief situation and continuing where this assembly of Parliament and Government has begun. Let's show our trust to the prime minister. Let's not be malice if we can. Here I realized to my colleague Jurjevic that he truly wants the government to succeed. I've heard such statements from others. I trust these statements, and I hope that this government and these assembly of Parliament will carry out their mandate by the end. He's been given a term of office in the elections, he's legitimate, he's based on the Constitution and the law, we have a legal mandate and a legal proposal that is based before this House on the Constitution and we move on with uncertain expectations of who will return to political life and who will not. I hope that one day we will all be pleasantly surprised and in this sense I want everyone who thinks well, sincerely thinking about the future of Croatia that these efforts of this government headed by Jadranka Kosor will follow, support and thus overcome these short, small teats that we had about forming a government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35595	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35596	I now appeal to article 214, not for the speech of Luke Bebić, but for you. My colleague Bebić talked about everything, about a foreigner here, about everything but the subject of the agenda. I personally don't have any problem with that. I think that MPs should be allowed to talk about what they think they're talking about, because every item of the agenda is broad enough for MPs to bring out what they think is a problem. And I don't mind the speech of Luke Baby, but I have against you. I'm against you and I'm calling on... Because you fellow Shakespeare have warned all the MPs from these benches today if you would step away from this point with two sentences, but you did not warn your colleague Bebić. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] When he was sitting in your seat, he often does the same thing to his colleague, Bebić. And now, on his example, he can sense how cruel the application of the Rules of Procedure can harm a good debate, an interesting debate like yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35597	This statement by Mr. Trazic is a school example of injury to the Rules of Procedure and this school example, which is so obvious that it should be shown in the textbooks of a business procedure as one move which, without appropriate, without any shame and shame, colleagues Stazic without any shame or shame, as a lever of common sense goes to report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure and thus claiming that the President of the Croatian Parliament did not speak on the subject. He spoke very highly of the subject. And I'm telling you now.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35598	We don't choose Chacic as president today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35599	Here you go when I say shut up. You should learn that one time. When a representative of such a caliber as yourself dares to give you a warning, it is as easy as possible. It's impossible for you to give a warning, because you're not the subject to which the warning would work, but any sanctions only have a stimulating effect on you. In other words, you're incorrigible. ... [[Applause.]] Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35601	Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35602	Excuse me, colleague Linic. I was wrong. It's got a few replicas. First Mr. Frano Matušić. I got a little carried away listening to Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35603	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So it was not only from the ranks of the Croatian People's Party that came to the expense of HDZ that many insults, untruths and all that we could hear for hours, but from the ranks of the SDP. We could also hear a lot of insults, lies. And I'm going to look back at some who were involved in corruption. My colleagues were always talking about how nothing was about fighting corruption, which is not true. Many of the actions that are under way, which are already under trial or are on trial, are behind us and can be freely said that much has been done by this example, but it is interesting to say that no one from the SDP has looked back on one fact that is extremely important and as regards hotels in Dubrovnik that have been sold to a group called "Wrens Group" and Adriatic luxury hotels headed by Goran Strok. The government of Ivica Racana sold precisely to this allegedly respected hotelier, allegedly a respected hotel entrepreneur, a good part of the best hotels in Dubrovnik, so that we would testify today that his chief adviser and honorary president and the group were suspended from the British Parliament because of corruption. I didn't hear anyone from the SDP say, so who was it sold to in Dubrovnik those hotels that were sold to? I didn't hear about that case. You didn't show up once. Read on the Internet about Lord Taylor, about Blacburn. Honorary president of the Wrens Group, honorary president and adviser to Goran Struk. Who did you sell these hotels to in Dubrovnik? What kind of hotel contractor did you sell? Is this about corruption? I'm convinced you do. I'm convinced today that he is. The SDP also continued to attack Croatia's television for broadcasting the government's still prime minister despite being left behind by Mr. Sanader. Mr. Stazic, you haven't heard from your candidates within the party speaking, within the party candidates when they competed for the president's post. Every day they were on all TVs and on Croatian TV. We didn't object, and on the day that a speech by President Sanader was announced, then you're making a complaint. And while your candidates are Jurcic and Milanovic etc. Every day you were in the media you didn't say anything about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35604	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35605	Mr. Vice President. Articles 209 and 210 have been injured. Mr. Matušić touched everything other than what Mr. Bebic had in his debate in his vehement replication of Parliament President Mr. Bebić. It cannot be replicated, and you know very well what was not spoken about in the debate of the fundamental speaker. And you should have warned him because he can't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35606	If the Rules of Procedure were to be interpreted this strictly in this way, then to all MPs, and especially to those who have replicated countless times today, and it was not related to the opening presentation and speech of the person to whom it was replicated, then it would be a breach of the Rules of Procedure. And just before you had a living example of a series of replicas that were inside your club, when it wasn't replicated at all by the one who spoke, but it was about something 10th and something left. So it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure and I can't respect your objection that it's about hurting the Rules of Procedure, with all due respect and sincere regret. Reply to the replica Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament Luka Bebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35607	Mr. Matusic said in my opening debate that I would not comment on the individual discussions of the SDP club. Although I certainly had enough reason and material to comment on them and to stand up to them. Why? Because I answered the club debates. Mr. Milanovic, who spoke on behalf of the SDP club, did not give me special material that I am talking about here, is the less that debate was correct for me, and I did not comment on individual discussions. That's one thing. Secondly, I forgot to say earlier that the gentleman I was talking about, and that I, too, called the Croatian television public, the Croatian Democratic Community a pro-fascist party. A border fascist break. And those qualifications and things, so my people, do we have political cultures to at least restrain those extreme qualifications that are incorrect and unreal, except they are offensive. That's why I've always pleaded in this House. And being mentioned by Sanader these, they were normally mentioned by the Prime Minister. And I'm going to say again one of my old qualifications is a lot of politicians and few statesmen. The politician will comment on the day-to-day policy and decide on the situation he is in and statesmen often make decisions that anti-cicipe the future and are not popular when they make them. Their moves are subsequently confirmed. I argued that we had two HDZ presidents Tudjman and Sanader who were both politicians and statesmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35608	Next replica, Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35609	Thank you very much. I'm just trying to put myself on the table for President-in-Office of the Parliament's hearing for a little while, but one more sentence. Every time Mr. Matusic replicates like this, I will no longer object because the SDP is getting popular. People recognize when someone is lamentating without any resistance and in vain, so go ahead, Mr. Matusic. And I'd say to Mr. Baby, in your opening debate, you said who called for early elections. No one calls for early elections. We simply believe that in this situation it is impossible to implement the reforms in front of the Croatian government and that you do not have the legitimacy of the choice, as an experienced politician, for sure. ... That's right, you don't have the legitimacy of choice in a government like this after two years. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] And they would. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35610	Please, peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35611	If you're sure of your victory in HDZ's interest would be the same early elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35612	Reply to the replica of Croatian Parliament President Mr Luka Bebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35613	... early elections. [[The speaker is turned on afterwards, you can't hear it.]] Is this proposal serious? Is this a serious suggestion, do you think? Is it real, is it founded or is it just this nice to hear? Pray to God so that they do not accidentally accept these early elections. That's the real truth about who's calling. Second, it's government. I remember in 2000 that it was concluded by six parts that, as horns in a bag, were clashing, falling out, breaking out, dividing into parties, and don't talk about the conclusion. The government was not a staff in a year and a half to name the head of the counterintelligence and intelligence service because they couldn't agree on who would be first. And don't talk, this is a far-reaching advance compared to that six-point government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35614	Mr. Representative of Luke Denon Replic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35615	At this time just ten hours ago, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Luka Bebić, I am truly surprised that you, I have responded to your exposure for the simple reason that you have called something quite legitimate, rightly that the opposition in the Croatian Parliament can criticise, show nelados, corruption and all the bad that is happening in Croatia. If these are colleagues and colleagues from the opposition party he does not have, I repeat, there is no in your court who can be court-aided arrogantly, impertinently however, it is a court. That's not the measure of things. In the Croatian Parliament, legitimately if we have caught those words many times today we must speak and the opposition is to speak and warn. I'm sorry you didn't like it. I appreciate your age and gray hair, but now that you've started telling us again, it's a good thing that I volunteered for the replica because then your colleague fired on this opposition that stands here, which has the same dictionary as this opposition he didn't agree on today, so it's just as legitimate. And you see, we are neither offended nor angry. And I agree with you there are differences between politicians and statesmen. Mr. Sanader may have been a good politician but he's a bad statesman who left a sinking ship and ran away. It is a bad statesman because he has brought Croatia into an unstable position within himself, Croatia has brought an unstable position towards Europe. It's a bad statesman, I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35616	Reply to the replica of Croatian Parliament President Luka Bebić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35617	I did not dispute the right to seek this or that based on political views. I'm just troublesome about who's insulting us and getting out of the session. Insulted to the end by pride, arrogance, and all that I've said just before not to repeat. That's what this is about. And I'm an agent who can come here and argue like you. No one can do that to me. The qualifications you're giving me that I don't agree with are legitimate. And my qualifications are legitimate even if you disagree with them. Second, in terms of who's statesman and who's not statesman, it's early. I think what I said earlier and the future and the answers to those questions will be before us, especially in front of you younger ones, and eventually we will see and gather everything that was and what was yet to be, and we will see the position of each of our people of the one who follows the day-to-day policy and does not consider the future seriously and responsibly and she often thinks so that it does not seem to be when decisions are made but are later justified. That's why I trust that future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35618	Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35619	I answered the original presentation of Mr. Bebić and it is actually an incredible ease that the HNS club expressed this morning about this proposal of the new government and it is actually interesting that all the time it has challenged the legitimacy that is being discussed tonight. 83 MPs, 83 signatures are hopefully sufficient legitimacy and the public opinion story we heard this morning is absolutely unfounded and we don't know what opinion of the public, based on which survey. Interestingly, we haven't heard a single word all day about the government's personnel team, nor has there been any mention of any new solutions or current solutions. And here tonight we have had the honour of hearing that the government is concluded that I believe it is below the level of this House, speaking of people who have been so established that have so far proven themselves in the government and these new ones that are proposed are really below the level. I also want to comment that today a lot of people have said we want good to this government. Almost every exhibit has ended well with this government, but I won't vote. We especially want Mrs. Kosor well, but I won't vote. It seems to me that it was quite a conflicting attitude, and when he came from women members, no matter what you didn't want to share in sex, he was quite hypocritical. However, this debate has turned away from the basic topic. I'd like to return to our new term of office, our hope, in a few minutes' time, of a new prime minister. I wish you every good and I believe that you will continue this direction, and of course respecting the circumstances in which the Croatian State is located, the circumstances in which we are surrounded by respecting the situation of the crisis that we mentioned today and certainly that you will have to correct yourself in some parts of this. In that sense, I wanted to use this replica to actually say that we all wanted good today, and we don't really want to give a voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35620	Replication response. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Luka Bebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35621	We talked about legitimacy, I don't think there's anything to add. But the lady mentioned polls, etc. I don't remember any polls when HDZ ever won those polls. HDZ wins the election, and others win the polls. We weren't the winners of these choices. In Slovenia there is quite one vote for Pahora, i.e. on Janš, in... Four years one vote, then there were a little ten of us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It hasn't been admitted that we haven't won the election, let alone anything else. So we're used to it. We know, we're counting, we're refusing, and we're moving on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35622	Thank you. Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35623	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. Ms. Kosor came today with a proposal for people and a proposal for a programme to gain the trust of parliamentary representatives for the remainder of the term of office for a little over two years, two and a half years. It is necessary to say an opinion on these people, it is necessary to say two three words of opinion on the programme in order to be able to assess whether indeed Mrs Kosor, as the future Prime Minister, will manage the Republic of Croatia in the executive power for two and a half years. Given the large number of members of the government, I'll only hold on to two. Two, which I consider to be a very important segment of the Croatian government, vice-president for the economy and economy minister and finance minister. I will try to assess them to give my opinion on the quality of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor's proposal. It is a year that everyone in Croatia is seriously trying to talk about the crisis. Not about the global crisis, but about the crisis in Croatia. A year. The employers, employers' associations, say this membership of the Croatian Chamber, say politicians, parliamentary representatives. But in those years, we do not have serious listening, serious answers from such an important two from the current government and new candidates. We don't. They don't accept that there are problems in industry, they don't accept that there are liquidity problems, they don't accept that we're losing jobs, they don't accept that we're dropping exports, we're bad at export and that it was imports that were problematic. We can't find a common language. In Croatia, relevant economic and financial factors. However, we have uninterrupted assurances, we have money, there will be no problem, there will be a budget, we will pay no problem. We have proposals for budgets that aren't real. Everyone's warning, I'm not gonna talk about us fellow MPs, we're talking about businessmen. You've gone too far with your first draft budget. But no, the people responsible don't want to hear it. They don't want to hear it. And where are we today? And listen, here's my colleague, President of the Parliament, about the debates. It's a difficult situation. There's no one from the opposition or the government, it's so heavy. So we're aware of the moment we're in, she's aware of the ruling set. But do we wonder why responsible people have not prepared the country for such a situation? But these same people who haven't prepared until today are proposing to be the backbones of the financial and economic side of the government again. It's the backbones. I'm not going to go into it for a year that we've been talking about not paying the builders, not paying HEP, not paying the INA, I'm not going to say that these same people forbid the builders from invoice their services with road claims. ... Mr. Minister, don't lie! ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What are you lying about? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm telling you the truth, and I'm telling you the names if I have to. ... /Speaker disabled./... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35624	Calm down! ... Calm down! [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35625	... Because of your minister you're proposing as Minister of Finance. [[Specially enabled.]] Yes, these are the problems in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35626	Calm down! Take it easy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35627	What kind of people are you suggesting? That's what must be worrying about all of us. You will have to come before us with a new budget, with a new draft budget. Are we gonna get... These same people ran Croatian firms where the majority property of the Republic of Croatia was. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Look at the debts they've created. No development, no investment, we left the energy sector. ... I can stop and talk. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Obviously, we don't want to hear it in the Croatian Parliament. You do not accept that the opposition has its position, you do not accept. But whatever it is, we don't have to get golf space here. We have space all over Croatia, and you have to understand that you can't act like one. This is the problem of your proposal, Mrs. Kosor, people like this, who simply unresponsibly manage the enormous wealth of the Republic of Croatia. They create dubiosis without investment. Yes, it is your problem and therefore the citizens of Croatia, I personally, question the quality of your referendum, suspect that for the next two and a half years these same people who do not want to listen to create conditions that we can normally do business, that the economics get their incomes, that they can pay their workers, that they can pay taxes. Yeah, that's the problem with these two proposals. Today you've heard all of this from your coalition partners. Yes, I followed well how your coalition partners commented on behalf of non-confident clubs. They just feel that you haven't worked well enough, that you haven't taken all the measures, that you haven't prepared yourself for this situation. And that's why I don't believe there's going to be any quality solutions. It is my assessment, if it is to judge by these two, then you really have bad proposals for the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Let's go back to the programs. We have made it clear at the presentation of the Government in 2008 that the energy-related programme is not good. You make Croatia an addict with this program. You do not use the wealth of Croatia in energy, and water, and sun, and wind. You simply push Croatia into energy addiction. Your predecessor accepted that it would change. You're pushing that same proposal today. Again, responsible people who should know what to do had to suggest a different solution. And of course, by estimating such insufficient proposals in the program, the unquality people you offer cannot give you confidence, at least not on my part. But regardless of what I'm not going to do, I'm going to try to do everything I can to help you and your government with quality suggestions if you get the trust to find the right way out of this crisis, regardless of whether or not Minister Schucker is going to make fun of me, keep me a fool, an irresponsible man like some of my colleagues. You won't discourage me. My job is to make very clear, in addition to the critical tones, the quality of the suggestions. You don't have to accept them. It's your choice. But you'll get them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35628	Thank you. Before I give the Rules of Procedure an injury, Mr. Linic is making too much noise, and that's usually shouting and shouting, usually a sign of thin arguments, you know. Mr. Milorad Pupovac has requested a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35629	Mr. President, I find it quite unusual that a candidate for the Prime Minister, whom we hope to raise our hands from the bench, will soon interfere with the debate of parliamentary deputies about what is the measure of things. And what kind of dictionaries? You, Mr. President, have been obliged to warn him of this and to give us some assumptions that we should be able to finish this job in peace that we've been doing all day and prepare ourselves for a job that's waiting for us tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35630	Mr. Pupovci, you are often inclined to warn and speak what is to be done. I did what I did. You didn't say a single word to a noise that was ten times stronger on what was obtained from the bench. You haven't said a single word about it. Please don't accept that, and don't remind me of what mine are and what they're not. ... You didn't get your word and you're yelling all the time in this House. [[- Intruder Linic, you don't understand.]] You're yelling at the Parliament. You've hardly offended me a few months ago and never apologized, never apologized, even though I asked the club to apologize. ... What's wrong with you, Mr. Linic? [[- Intruder Linic, you don't understand.]] What's wrong with you? ... Because you're yelling. [[- Intruder Linic, you don't understand.]] Because you're one big loudmouth in the Croatian Parliament. So, you're nothing else and you're... That you insulted me publicly for no reason, and you didn't apologize, because you never apologized for anything. ... [[- Intruder Linic, you don't understand.]] I asked your club, I didn't get an answer. [[- Intruder Linic, you don't understand.]] You know? I've remembered for a long time. Mr. Liner, calm down. You have very thin nerves. I think you're going to kill yourself here someday. ... Calm down. [[- Intruder Linic, you don't understand.]] Calm down. Nenad Stazic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35631	Mr. Linic, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor presents us today and proposes her ministers. It's supposed to be a solemn moment. One of them is Mr. Shucker. He suggests a mandated man who allows himself to throw and insult MPs out of the bench. He's only here today to run for minister. He told you to lie. A candidate for the minister who came to this high house to gain his trust. Not only did he insult you, colleague Linic, he insulted this entire House. He allowed himself to insult the Parliament here, he also insulted the mandater because if she proposes such a lewdness for ministers... /The speaker was turned off and turned back on. He insulted you too, Mr. President of the Parliament, because you let this outrageous vandalism happen, that a candidate for minister throws a lie to a representative here in the House without your warning and without your punishment. You have humiliated this House, but so will this government, which will be voted today, will be known for its uncultureal people.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35632	It's true, there's a lot of them that insult and they're rude, but it's not just one, you know. If you can remember. Replication response, Mr. Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35633	Mr. Stazic, it doesn't matter if the minister insults any members of this House. The problem is when the minister refers in the same way to businessmen who are looking for their earnings, who are asking for respect for them, who are demanding payment so that they can pay the wounded. And then the minister is even worse. That's the problem, and that's the problem with the future Prime Minister. Such a minister is a problem for the Republic of Croatia, a minister who does not know how to communicate with the economies, a minister who simply has no hearing about the problems of their leaders, and at that point so much cry out, therefore so much, I would say an attempt to find understanding. But there's another problem, the problem is that simply these businessmen have been showing great fear lately. Big fear. Not for himself, not for his own profit, but for the workers they're looking for. I can't communicate with people like this in the government. And that's something Mrs. Kosor must know very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35634	Replica, Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35635	Thank you very much, Mr. Linic. In your debate you touched the core of the problem of the economy today in Croatia, which is an indifference which is a fundamental problem and which generates and promotes precisely the Croatian Government and the Croatian state. While Mr. Shuker called you from the bench not to tell the truth, to lie, he didn't remember to say that out of 16 billion kunas of internal liquidity, 7-8 billion kunas owed either by the government or by companies owned by the state of Croatia. He didn't even remember saying that when he said that INA was no longer state-owned on the same day as he was still a member of the Supervisory Board, that INA owed 3.5 billion kuna, he said I had no more ties to the INA, and he was a member of the Supervisory Board and chairman of the Supervisory Board and Deputy Prime Minister. No, they have nothing to do with it, they have nothing to do with it. The state owes Minister Shuker only one billion kuna. The truth is just the opposite, everyone in Croatia knows and should say the honest emperor is naked.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35636	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35637	Yes, the problem is Croatian companies with majority ownership of the Republic of Croatia. They're really a big problem. Big debtors and a total investment stalemate. It's a total investment stalemate. And imagine the leading functions of the Supervisory Committees of Ministers. Ministers. Why? So we can better control the work of the administration. But unfortunately, they didn't do their job. They didn't do it. We don't have quality results either in HEP, we haven't had quality results either in INA. In fact, now the Hungarian majority owner, I apologize, the larger owner, bigger than the share of Croatia, says very clearly, in six months we will finally try to create the right company. And imagine, who was the president? Who were members of the INA Supervisory Board. Yeah, that's our problem. There's our lost money. There's also a lost part of the job. Yeah. But that's not all we're saying. Today, I heard such debates from the HDZ coalition partners, and I would say the proposed ministers. Yeah, we're not happy with their work. And that's something that Mrs. Kosor shouldn't have suggested.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35638	Thank you. Mr. Luke Denon, also a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35639	Mr. Linic, in his opposition performance, of course you have rightly criticised the two proposed ministers in your own own personal way, as I hope. But then we got an ugly reaction because even such an opposition act can't be qualified, it's noise and noise. But I'm sure in that second part of my exit when you said it, and I remembered it, I hope the prime minister wrote it somewhere that as opposition people we will continue to try to help our legal proposals, not because of you, but because of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that we can prove otherwise. For when you have to take over and use part of our anti-recession measures, we will neither laugh nor laugh at you, neither will we be like this nor will we underestimate you. And that's the fundamental difference between you and us.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35640	Answer, Mr. Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35641	... I said that in the coming period I would constructively propose certain proposals and that I would not mind making fun of the position. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] No, I don't. It's their right. If they don't, I'd say arguments, if they don't have their proposals, they can make fun of them. I'm used to it, so I'll keep doing it. But also, very clearly and loudly, there is too much fear in the Republic of Croatia. I've always shown that I'm not afraid, and least of all the thugs like Shucker. I'm not afraid. And I'm saying I'll always react like this when someone doesn't do their job. I'll be able to protect myself. And you know my challenge in the jungle I'll be a beast and it won't be easy with me, and in a decent society I'll be very, very polite and polite. Therefore, others determine what I will be and how I will behave.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35642	Mr. Franjo Lucic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35643	Here's what I'm sorry Mr. Linic said about us, and I don't know why he said he wasn't telling the Minister the truth. And I'll remind you, Mr. Linic, it was true a long time ago when you were in power, and that's the 2003 transition to 2004. You left in the Croatian highways a budget deficit of 5 billion Mr. Linic, and today you say that this government does not pay the bills, that it does not allow companies to expose the situation. Budgetary 5 billion, your finance minister and we discovered it all in 2004 because you didn't want to show the deficit in 2003. So don't deceive the public, don't get so angry when you're not telling the truth first and you want to blame this government alone, and your government where you've only been for four years, I remind you in 19 years for four years, then I guess it's clear to everyone how well you've been doing, what you've been doing, and we're best aware of that. And that's why this people trust that government that they know, and that's why we're going to give it to this government and our future president tonight, and we're sure we know how and how we're going to lead this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35644	Thank you. Correction Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35645	Here's counterpart Linic claims that the irresponsible government manages state property, that it does not protect small entrepreneurs and the like. Well, just for comparison, let's see how Mr. Linic did it. So here he was at the head of the INA Supervisory Board, then it affected that INA was selling fuel to all small entrepreneurs whose name it swears to at retail prices. So the pump owners went bankrupt. You know who bought the pumps? Rijeka Eeuropetrol, a company where Mr Linic has such a significant influence. And why? Because Europetrol was the only one who was getting fuel at affordable prices. And now where is corruption, where is the protection of small entrepreneurs. And in the end, he saved our national INA back then so he sold it to even MOL's management rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35646	Thank you. Goran Maric, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35647	Thank you very much, Mr. President. counterpart Linic correctly said that the problem of the Croatian economy is inequitable, but incorrectly said that the state is a source of liquidity and that the ministry prohibits invoices for businesses because they know they will not collect their claims. The complexity is much greater indifference in Croatia, and she dares to even point out from the process of conversion and privatisation and who understands the economy a little bit better from the so-called economy. Adequate management conditions, which many entrepreneurs abuse their position and do not pay on purpose using such a situation, even base their development on non-payment. The biggest debtor is also known and the biggest debtors in the Republic of Croatia are employers of those in whom there is no state of ownership at all, let alone majority ownership. The employers owe each other. We heard a lot in the debate of fellow Linic, but we witnessed more of the strength of the messengers than the strength of the arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35648	Thank you. Mr. Davor Bernardic, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35649	Dear President of the Parliament. So here at these late moments for the work of the Croatian Parliament, I can only say that the new Prime Minister and future Prime Minister will certainly not be easy for you, because in these circumstances you assume responsibility for the functioning of the Government. Except for your announcements in the beginning with the desire program, I would not say concrete measures, but rather through a program of wishes from the rulings we have not heard a single concrete, concrete solution to the new problems, but therefore we have heard everything that happened in the 40s, the 90s, there has been a lot of talk about the past, talk about who won the elections, talked about the deceased, talk about people who aren't with us today and about those rare and young people who see their future here in Croatia, and who are in front of their screens tonight and watch this debate, it's definitely not a good message. That now that the government is changing, you have no concrete solutions. I expected exactly the opposite that you would talk about solutions and that the opportunity when a government is formed to talk about what needs to be done in the country, and we are all aware that it is a crisis, for the first time today Mrs. Kosor has admitted that in Croatia the crisis is in place. I have to say 26 anti-recession proposals we sent from the ruling side didn't come either, and that's what we're worried about. In the last year we've been warning about what's going to happen, in the last year over 100 legislative proposals, measures, acts we've sent to procedure. Less or less everyone in turn has been rejected. We won't be angry if over the weekend, and I've already said that, you go over 100 of our proposals and come next week with our proposals as your own, we won't be angry because it's in the interest of this country. You do that, you better copy ours, than nothing comes. What kind of situation you are inheriting, and in which situation a few data speak enough, there have already been a lot of words from our predecessors, but with a 7% decline in GDP by some estimates, with a decline in industrial production of more than 20% now, with a drop in tax revenues of 20%, means in an ever weaker charge of the state budget, which is a serious problem for the service of the current government's obligations, it also encounters even a few more moments. One of those moments is this indifference. Some have already talked about it, but it's only important to underline this. Two days ago we had a report from the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, we had an announcement of what Hubor will do in the next period. Never will the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which will open a short-term liquidity credit line for the first time this year. She has never worked to serve current obligations to entrepreneurs, companies that are unable to pay their salaries to their workers. A colleague, Maric, mentioned that no country is the main indifference generator, but I have already responded to it once. Well, the Germans aren't disciplined because they're the most cultural people on earth, the Germans are disciplined because they have laws, because they have a state, because they have a government that enforces those laws. So who does he have to settle the laws on? In the government, in the state, we will either edit myself or my colleague Maric or I don't know who else. Well, that's that intrastitial basic problem. Why are payment deadlines in the European Union down from 60 to 30 days and why these deadlines are even over a year. This is what chokes Croatian entrepreneurs, and believe me without them there are no social benefits, there is no salary for employees in the administration, there are no other benefits without filling the benefits, without a healthy economic climate, without entrepreneurship there are no such things. And that's who doesn't know it doesn't have to deal with politics. I will also say what I said when I talked about the program that came to our table, and it is about the 2009-2011 mandate. So it's less the same in all those parts with the ones that came to our table in 2007. I wish it had been significantly revised under the new circumstances. But unfortunately not. And what's going on? The development and restoration of the 18 billion-dollar railway infrastructure raises the question of where will this be financed? The last train passed internationally through Zagorje six months ago, and the action plan that was announced to us for the railway infrastructure a year ago is not there yet. That's logical, because the money to implement that plan probably doesn't exist. Who will and how will settle debts in the Croatian Railways? Who and how will the losers of the Croatian Post Office be rehabilitated? And a number of other state-owned companies that owe a lot of money, they've made commitments, and they can't service it. And the truth does have them, of course there are. And entrepreneurs who get injections in some way know that. And that's why in the last six months, 45 thousand people have lost their jobs. And that's a serious thing to talk about and face specific problems and give concrete solutions, because without a solution, we can't go forward. The energy strategy that might already be on the agenda tomorrow is difficult in 10 years 100 billion kuna. If we share that yearly, I don't have to tell you how much it's worth. 10 billion. This means that in the next two years, the government must spend another 10 billion energy from the state budget to implement the energy strategy. So where did that money come from? That money's gone. Roadways. I remember the 2003 announcement of the Zagreb-Sisak highway. The "Vjesnik" will be finished in 2007 and will be postponed for 2008, and will be postponed in 2009, and will be postponed in 2010. It's the 2011 deadline. For five years, this road route, five years, has shifted the deadline for building the Zagreb-Sisak highway, the only thing that has increased in the meantime are prices. And now we are proposed here, and it states that, and this has not been done, what should have been done in 2006 is now suddenly going to expand the full profile of the Istrian Ipsilon. The highway will be built not only for Koprivnica, because for Koprivnica it is already announced, but also for Virovitica. But there's a bunch of things that just cost so much that we don't know where to find new ones. That's what's a serious problem. Where will the money be found for these projects? And in this programme, which is more similar to that from 2007 to 2011 is some, so I calculated between 700 and 1,000 wishes of what should be done. Future Prime Minister Kosor, I don't want you to enter empty homes for two years in this program that we all have in 2007 and now 2009 in addition to the items to be made. I honestly don't want that. I want you to do the best you can. I think in that direction you'll be less burdened because you're less burdened by everything you can and can see by your own popularity. Here, that's something to talk about and not something we can't support this government building, because exactly because concrete solutions to what needs to be done aren't listed, but are listed wishes that simply don't have money. There's no money for that program. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35650	Correction, Mr. Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35651	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, a colleague didn't at least identify himself as a jungle beast, so it will be easier to correct his incorrect allegations, which says the SDP has submitted 26 proposals to the government to solve different problems, but the government has not accepted either. So to accept these proposals, when these proposals weigh 15 billion kuna on the burden of the state budget. You're telling an esteemed colleague that there's no money, that it's not possible to secure money. And where, for these 26 SDP proposals, they would find an additional 15 billion kuna in the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35652	Correction Mr. Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35653	So MP Bernardic said they proposed anti-recession proposals, but he did not say they actually wanted to legalise the inequality of citizens before the constitution, that they wanted to simply divide certain social categories. So they suggested that the unemployed who remain unemployed this year get a bigger fee at the Employment Office. So they suggested they reprogram the loans to those who were out of a job, but this year. So that's general question whether it's constitutional what you're proposing. And secondly, it would produce great dissatisfaction and conflicts of these social categories if you create inequality of people. It would be logical for those who had lost their jobs earlier, so they certainly need more than those who stayed this year. Even though he needs each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35654	Thank you. Replica Mr. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35655	Very short, Mr. Bernardich. The Istrian ispsion is built without a single swear of budget money. So for the Istrian ispsion state, Croatia doesn't provide a single kuna. How is this road built? It's built in an unsuspectingly expensive tunnel and bridges. The only road in Croatia built through concessions is the rest by means provided in Croatian highways or Croatian roads. But the state budget of the Republic of Croatia does not even stand at this time. The road is exclusively a burden for citizens, i.e. users of these traffic routes through the Učka tunnel, or over the bridge via Mirna.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35656	Answer Mr. Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35657	That's what's standing here in the government program. You then probably know best in Istria how to successfully finance and lead the project to realisation and this is also an example in some more developed parts of Croatia from which more state budgets are filled from the basis of various tax revenues. And that's exactly what we're proposing. Copy better, copy Istria, copy Rijeka, copy Zagreb, copy Međimurje, copy Čakovec, copy developed parts of Croatia those who know how to convert tax revenues into concrete projects, create jobs, ensure better existence and better traffic connection. It's very simple, all you have to do is listen and it can be realized.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35658	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35659	Dear Mr. President, honored Croatian Government, members and members of the future government, honored colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the term of office from 2009 to 2011, but looking at this programme it can only be said that the Government is consistent with its inconsistency and that I will support this with a concrete example in the chapter of energy. Here, today, a response came to the Parliament of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship to the Committee on Environmental Protection related to the session of the Committee on Energy Strategy, and said: "A disturbance in the supply of individual energy such as the interruption of natural gas supply in January this year may further disrupt the security of electricity supply.". Croatia imports 15-20% of electricity annually depending on hydrological opportunities and is therefore one of the most dependent countries in Europe, and this was signed by Mr. Secretary of State. Nevertheless, the government's programme is based on energy strategy mainly on energy supply and very little is said about production. The natural gas supply routes, the highway pipelines, are being elaborated, but this will further increase the energy dependence of the Republic of Croatia on energy sources that are not on its soil. Already, some of the United States' exits from recession and this crisis and the resulting rise in energy prices as well as the increased demand for energy from China and India require a much more concrete and efficient energy policy and programme than was offered in this government programme. At the moment of the formation of Dr. Sanader's government a year and a half ago, all international analysts predicted significant energy supply disturbances globally, especially gas. And what happened. Europe has indeed been crouching since winter, in Europe many energy-intensive plants have stopped, so Petrochemy has not worked in the Kutina and economic damage has been enormous. Energy suppliers have thus effectively shown that import energy can be a weapon of blackmail and a disaster for the economies of countries that import energy. Therefore, this programme should be much more focused on reducing the import dependence of the Republic of Croatia on energy, because only energy self-sufficiency and independence are both a guarantee of sovereignty and self-dependence as well as a dam for modern neo-colonalism. In order for energy policy to become something real and tangible, it would also have to offer an operable response that the Republic of Croatia will take into account and I hope to get out of the crisis and recession and resulting in such economic growth in the Republic of Croatia to replace over a thousand megawatts after 2015 when the end of the life span of several energy plants in the Republic of Croatia is particularly thermal power plants. How, consequently, will the government compensate for the inflationary pressure of expensive energy? The programme says that the construction of one hydropower plant and two gas power plants will be completed and those in Zagreb and Sisak. Even if imports of gas from Russia or from Arab countries in the ingested state do not cause major problems, which is really difficult to suspect when converting gas into electricity, at least half of the energy contained in it is currently unnecessary. It is therefore much more economical to direct use of gas for heating and cooking, not by converting it into electricity. There is no positive or negative position on nuclear energy in the programme except perhaps indirectly because it is talking about the adoption of an energy strategy which is moreover on the agenda of this session. I am not pleading for or against the government's position on the problem, since by reducing the availability of fossil fuels, Europe is turning itself into building new nuclear power plants in its energy policy. As the Republic of Croatia intends and intends to meet the obligations of Kyoto's waist protocol, it agrees that of all the measures observed in the nuclear energy strategy is to apply with the highest potential of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and is estimated that without increasing nuclear energy, there will be nothing in the government's programme about it. Furthermore, I am also interested in the view of nuclear energy, and I think it is also interested in the citizens of Croatia because of the notorious fact that the Republic of Croatia is co-owner of 50% of the Krško nuclear power plant located only 30 km of the Zagreb air line. What is the view of privatizing the sale of Krško nuclear power plant that has been known to drag through the media? Namely, the only remaining part of Croatia in the ownership structure of the Krško nuclear power plant also guarantees a direct impact on security aspects and security policy without exposure to a very complicated mechanism of international conventions, which is also a dam against the possible entry of speculative capital into the nuclear power plant. So the question arises that this minimalist, not particularly ambitious, energy programme will be implemented because students of technical and natural sciences are becoming less and less and especially those of energy. And I would just like to refer to an anti-ecological and anti-civilization statement in the chapter on ecology where a new spatial arrangement plan will be put in place to rule out the possibility of building a nuclear waste disposal site. I'm asking a rhetorical question. How the government intends to address the issue of radioactive waste resulting from the regular work of hospitals, the regular work of industrial plants, scientific institutions, etc.? Whether this waste will be dumped in the Sava or will continue to be postponed in "Ruđer Boskovic" because scientists are also strange and then let them continue to air, and therefore should not make a recovery in accordance with the rules of the profession as they have resolved and developed democratic countries that are using radioactive material in their normal work, whether industry, science, technology etc. I believe that the government should take a really big step and make an energy programme that would go 4 to 8 years in advance, so far beyond the mandate of this, the next and the next Governments, because that is the only way to ensure the energy self-sufficiency of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35660	Thank you. That's what we ended up having an individual discussion with. On behalf of the HNS club, five minutes of Madam Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35661	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. When we started the debate this morning and when I spoke on behalf of the club, I expected answers to three key points, and on behalf of the HNS Club, I said that this government should respond to three key points in its program. This is what impact measures will address the issue of the economic crisis, the issue of corruption on the rise and the issue of the European blockade. I also said that this government has a mutilated legitimacy to what general comments have arisen about it and different thoughts from people who obviously do not know what legitimacy is. For your information there are at least five types of legitimacy, of which this government has one, and that's so-called. the formal number of hands in Parliament. Of the five types of legitimacy there is one. However, to these problems that are real problems you have answered by demeaning the HNS, a party that has entered the Assembly with the third largest group of MPs voted for by 170,000, disdaining those people. That haughtiness and that way won't help you. You can think of whatever you want and of the people who voted, of those 170 thousand people and of the seven MPs on the CNS list who entered the Assembly. You can think whatever you want. But the fact is that this contempt and it demeaning me is not going to solve any of these problems that I've been talking about. You responded by insulting the president of the HNS Cacic, accusing him of puzzling a misdemeanor which in the last ten years you have always pulled before each election, but with all your superhuman efforts, no court has ever condemned him for anything. You responded by disdaining me personally, but neither knowledge nor the ability to think rationally is a statistical fact. And a man can be right if he's single and one, and he knows how to think, and on the other hand there can be thousands, there can be thousands, it won't change that fact. In such conditions, Mrs. Kosor, I don't see where it can come from for a hard job that you've accepted, so God help you, because you really have nothing to hope for on the other hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35662	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35663	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35664	Excuse me, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35665	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35666	Mr. Chehok has come forward to correct the incorrect allegations, so I'm asking you to wait for a while while he does.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35667	With pleasure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35668	She's a colleague of mine, a colleague of the professor's. This government has no ultimate legitimacy, Mrs. Pusic. The ultimate legitimacy in these 18 years was the only government that was created when HSLS came out of the coalition with the SDP because we were together in the elections. The pre-election coalition was carried by Mr. Racan and Mr. Budisha, the lists were something Racan died, something Budisha. After that we left that coalition, the club disintegrated thanks of course to the good part and your help. It was then that you defended this government and the legitimacy of that government most highly against any professorial and professional logic. Only this government had ultimate legitimacy. This government has... The legitimacy of the elections because the same majority that supported the government of Ivo Sanader supports this government as well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35669	Mr. Representative Vladimir Shakespeare on behalf of the HDZ Club. I'm sorry, but I forgot.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35670	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the council, Madam Prime Minister, members of the government. We're at the end of a marathon discussion about the government's trust. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support and give confidence to the prime minister for the cabinet of Mrs Jadranka Kosor and all members of the government. They will support this for the reason that it is honorable, responsible and competent men and women, responsible people, responsible people who have proven themselves each in their territory and their actions have proven their competence and proved their ability not to govern in the sense of government, to govern Croatia. The future Prime Minister, Mrs Jadranka Kosor, has indeed proved to be great in her area in the past six years as Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. Those economic resor ministers who took appropriate timely steps and measures to ease the crisis and welcome them in the evening of the major economic crisis that was moving towards Croatia in the least damaging Croatian interests have also proved themselves. Croatia is one of the few countries that best responded and responded to the crisis that came through the Atlantic, which swung Europe and entered Croatia. These ministers and members of the government who led those other justice ministers, from the interior minister to the foreign minister, each in their area very competent and responsiblely carried out those functions of the Government in the field of internal affairs, in the area of justice, as well as ministers in the area of agriculture, regional development, the field of health, social care, culture ministers, ministers in the area of spatial planning and construction, vice-presidents of the government. So it's all one team that can really respond competently and overcome all these crises. This government to whom trust will be given today will mean the continuation of all reforms necessary for Croatia to truly overcome the crisis and all reforms necessary for the deblockation of Croatian negotiations towards the European Union, and this will be a government that will successfully achieve those objectives set out in its programme. The opposition today, with the right and full legitimacy of the SDP, was very correct, but it was very hard to attack the government because the nature and role of the opposition and the president of the SDP, Mr Milanovic was very correct towards his critical post, according to the future government, demanding early elections. However, it is also the position of those coalition partners to answer with arguments and counterarguments. This was a sharp, fierce and lively debate. There were also those polemic tones that go through sometimes the limits of some of the measures that are at the border of insult, but globally it was a debate as always and should be in one national parliament in which the government's trust is being discussed, in which way the confidence of ministers and members of the government is discussed. And I think that the Croatian public who followed the course of this debate can also see that there has been a mostly reasoned debate here and that the spear was crossed in this reasoned debate and that this debate will also make the decision to give confidence to the Government and the Prime Minister Mrs Kosor. Mrs Kosor, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community, I congratulate you as the future prime minister of the Croatian government and all vice-presidents, ministers and ministers of the Croatian Government who will be elected in a few moments. Congratulations on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community with faith and hope that you will successfully and competently lead the Croatian government and Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35671	Thank you. Mr. Zoran Milanovic answered afterwards, right in five minutes? Sure, sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35672	So it was really inspiring to listen to a fellow Shex. We've been arguing all day, the tone was sharp. But our initial positions after the debate do not as prejudice remain the same. The government is the same as before, more or less the same in those essential ingredients. We don't think she's up to the task, that she didn't meet what her colleague Shakespeare said she was coming across the Atlantic, but she's not a swine flu. It's something much more complex, and it takes courage. But if I didn't talk right now because no one likes it, it's too late. There's no reason for that. Look, we'll be the opposition we've been. Some of us might raise the voice a little bit, a little bit less. We'll try to be constructive. We'll make suggestions, there's been a lot of them in the last year and a half. There'll be more. None are perfidious, none are malicious, none are unconstitutional in order to separate Croatian citizens and divide them into different categories as some here have tried to say no. Otherwise, when you pass laws, you necessarily have to discriminate, sometimes positively, sometimes negatively. It is the nature of the legislator and the nature of the policy. We have a difficult job with the European Union ahead of us. What we have burned is also the consequence of the multi-annual failure of diplomacy, which is always twofold and our inertness and unpreciseness and obstructions on the Slovenian side, and there we will try to do what we can at this time to raise Croatia to at least the level of the article in Economist, not those few words or two sentences that fellow Cosic so persistently did not want to translate into a Croatian which is still the official language in this Chamber, and you could, you could have just translated to hear everyone sound, which logical link the first sentence to the second sentence. You understand that. We've got a rough month ahead of us, a year we don't know how it's gonna end. We believe the state won't go bankrupt. The task of protecting those who are difficult, who cannot do without the state because they have come to such a position or have been brought into it by bad development policy, we protect them, copy them, as someone has said today, or we encourage those who can do more in Croatia. There are, there are regions, there are cities, there are counties that work better, they fill that budget as they fill it, little more than others, let's give them a breath, let's give them the strength to drag Croatia forward or push it, depending on which drive we choose. The one in the back, the little sporty or the one in the front, the more reliable. All in all, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, future members of the government, future Prime Minister. I can't but end up wanting you to succeed in your work simply because one country can only have one government, can't have two governments, can't have the sultan, the one in the stamp and... It's like bloody Avlie. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is still a modern European state, whatever we think of it. Thank you and congratulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35673	Thank the president of the SDP. And now the Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, has concluded. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35674	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Madam Representative and the Honorable Gentlemen Representatives. So, with full legitimacy, I have proposed to this Parliament the composition of the Government for the period 2009 to 2011. I repeat once again with the full legitimacy which, among other things, was given to me by the President of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Stjepan Mesic, of course when he found out that we, therefore, members and members of the government that I have proposed we have support in the Croatian Parliament, and that legitimacy is certainly being drawn on the basis of victory in the last parliamentary elections. I thank all of you who participated in the debate, which was indeed in the largest part of the democratic framework. I fully agree with the Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Shakespeare, who spoke of it very vividly earlier. I would, however, like to express my real regret over the fact that at some point this debate has come out of the democratic framework. I'll tell you why I'm sorry. In fact, I believe that you understand that the members and members of the government that we were sitting in the government have been really difficult for us so far. First of all, human beings are hard to listen to, I will now just, here are two, three words to quote from a phonogram where there are talk of traitors, cowards, deserters, etc. The qualifications we have heard about Prime Minister Sanader are simply unacceptable, I ask you to understand that because it is a man who has been at the head of the government since, as you know at the end of 2003, here to this day, who has done an extremely great deal to democratisation Croatian society, who has never feared anything, under whose leadership we have finally opened negotiations to join the European Union. Of course it's a lot of people, all governments, but he's done the job. So, we opened negotiations, we entered the Security Council, we became a NATO member, of course many and many are responsible for that, but Prime Minister Sanader finished the job. I could mention many other major projects that he has taken into account since the repayment of debt to pensioners who were claimed to be non-existent, and he solved the problem, etc., etc. until the return of dignity to Croatian defenders and the uncompromising fight and against corruption, but also the uncompromising fight against any kind of poison, magnificent fascism, etc. So Dr. Sanader deserves the respect of all of us in the government, but he deserves the respect of this House. He was head of the government at times when a lot of reforms had to be carried out, when a lot of courageous and determined steps had to be taken. So, I also want to thank this speaker for that, and I want to thank him for the suggestion that I be the prime minister for the new government's composition and that, if this House wishes, if you would support me, I would also be Prime Minister. So, ladies and gentlemen, despite all this, I thank everyone for the debate, all the MPs and MPs. We will continue, as we have done so far with all our strength first and foremost, to work on projects that I have indicated through both the program and what I was talking about. We will therefore continue to work to strengthen the economy as one of the pillars and to end the negotiations for entry into the European Union as a second pillar, I mention two, which I consider personally most important in the government's next period. We will continue to promote society of mutual respect, respect, respect for diversity without fear of another and different. Ladies and gentlemen, and finally, by proposing once again to give you confidence to this government, I would like to say once again that we will say once again in everything that we are going to do truly first and only serve our people, all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you for your trust. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35675	I thank Mrs. Prime Minister for the government's composition, Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote. Let's determine the quorum. Please, let's get on with it. The result? 122 MPs, although they say 128 up, but it's good. He's got a quorum. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has been established that the government is on duty when it is trusted by most of all representatives in the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure have been established to vote in favour of the Government's proposal as a whole. I would like to vote on the proposal for a mandate that the Croatian Parliament will show confidence to the presidents and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as proposed by the Prime Minister, Mrs Jadranka Kosor. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most of the votes have been voiced confidence by the Prime Ministers Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, members of the government, vice-presidents and ministers with 83 votes in favour, nothing abstention and 45 against. [[Applause.]] Let me congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the Prime Ministers of the Government, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, the Vice-Presidents of the Government and all the ministers and wish for successful, effective and fruitful work. And now, ladies and gentlemen, by showing confidence to the presidents and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the conditions for the Prime Minister and the members of the Government to be sworn in. This appropriation is intended to The Rules of Procedure have been established in the manner in which the oath is made. According to that article, the president pronounces the text of the oath, and then named after it by the members of the government who stand up and say, "I swear." So we're going to take the oath. The text of the oath reads: "I swear that I will exercise consciously and honorably the duties of a member of the Government, respect the Constitution, the laws and the legal order, and advocate any progress made by the Republic of Croatia." Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35677	Mr. President, I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35678	Thank you. Mr Damir Polancec, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35679	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35680	Thank you. Mr Bozidar Pankretic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and Minister of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35681	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35682	Thank you. Ms. Djurdja Adlesic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35683	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35684	Thank you very much. Mr. Free Taker Vice President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35685	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35686	Thank you. Mr. Gordan Jandrokovic, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Euro-European Integration.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35687	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35688	Thank you. Ivan Shuker, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35689	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35690	Thank you. Branko Vukelic, Defence Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35691	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35692	Thank you. Tomislav Karamarko, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35693	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35694	Thank you. Mr Ivan Siminović, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35695	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35696	Thank you. Bozidar Kalmeta, Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35697	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35698	Thank you. Mr Petar Cobankovic, Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35699	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35700	Thank you. Ms Marina Matulović Dropulić, Minister for Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35701	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35702	Thank you. Mr Darko Milinovic, Minister of Health and Social Care.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35703	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35704	Thank you. Mr Radovan Fuchs, Minister of Science, Education and Sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35705	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35706	Thank you. Mr Bozo Bishop, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35707	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35708	Thank you. Mr Tomislav Ivić, Minister of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35709	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35710	Thank you. Mr. Damir Byce, Minister of Tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35711	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35712	Thank you. Mr Davorin Mlakar, Minister of Management.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35713	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35714	Thank you. And Mrs Bianca Matkovic, Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35715	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-06-0.u35716	Thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have been completed here is what was described. Thank you, everyone. [[Applause.]] Tomorrow's session will continue at 10 and 30 hours with agenda item Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities concerning the national programme for Croatia under the IPA programme – a component of transition assistance and strengthening institutions for 2008, P.Z. Number 388. Thank you very much.
