ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40396	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we move to the announced agenda point, which is - - The proposal for a Strategy for the Energy Development of the Republic of Croatia is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 5. The energy law. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Environmental Protection, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and the Water Economy. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? State Secretary, Ms Tamara Obradović Mazal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40397	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Today we are discussing the Proposal for a Strategy for the Energy Development of the Republic of Croatia in circumstances where energy is a key word of today, a key word of strategic development of every country, but of course a key word of interest for every citizen, not only Croatia but also around the world. And our citizens believe with interest today will follow our debate, because just remembering the energy crisis from January of course they want to see that Croatia as a country and respecting its geostrategic position, capacities and resources it has, it takes care of the citizens so that we do not find ourselves again in the situation we were in during January. In what circumstances do we propose this strategy? We propose it under the circumstances when we have completed our negotiations for membership in the European Union, when we have adopted an agreement on the energy community, when we have signed and ratified Kyoto's protocol with the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and we are bringing a strategy and we propose a strategy in circumstances where the world is witnessing a marked instability of the global energy market. The reasons and circumstances mentioned above after 10 years are also the reasons for the launch of an upgrade of the national energy strategy. Let's just remind ourselves of the intervals in the oil barrel prices that we witnessed, where, for example, in 2002, we bought oil at $20 and $25 per barrel of oil, so that at one point we would have a maximum $147 per barrel of oil, so that at the end of 2008, the price would fall back to about $40 per barrel. I also mentioned the crisis, the gas crisis we witnessed in January. All these circumstances together with our international aspirations lead us to a proposal for this strategy. We've been working on the strategy in two ways. I thank this opportunity and the UNDP for helping us with the 2007 project through the Master Energy Efficiency Plan and the savings projections that can be made by 2016 at a level of 9%, which has served us in the second track precisely for design and was the starting basis for adapting and upgrading the energy development strategy in the form of a sustainable scenario. In that second part, we developed the Green Paper, the Green Paper of the new strategy, which provided professional bases for the development of the energy sector and offered three possible scenarios for the construction of the electricity system. It is good to say that, in the Green Paper, a complementary and a number of separate studies in terms of certain types of energy, oil, gas, or electricity sector, heat, production was mass and biofuels, and that around 60 specialists in the energy sector participated in the project team proposed by the Council of Projects. The Green Paper was also the basis for a public debate that began at the end of 2008 with a public presentation of the document. The public presentation of the document was not only carried out at one point in public debate across Croatia at the level of local and regional self-government, the public debate was held in the Ministry of Economy itself, and due to the great interest it has caused, the public debate lasted longer than the planned month because both comments and suggestions for improvement were almost daily, individual considerations and support for this draft strategy. Based on a public debate, the basis of the Green Paper was created a White Paper with a unique scenario of development presented to the Council of the Project on its 6th session and the White Paper its final text was converted into a draft draft energy development strategy. The strategy looks at the role of the state in energy through several basic principles. First of all, the observation of the energy system in the Republic of Croatia as an open system, the application of the market principles of the development of the energy sector, the thinking of energy activities in conditions of competition, the conditions of open infrastructure export activity, the diversity of energy structure, the exploitation of the specificities of the Croatian geographical position, the harmonisation of energy supply conditions across the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the increase in energy efficiency, the respect of the objectives and measures of environmental protection and the continued work on the creation of the entire energy framework and further harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union. As regards this strategy, certain consumption has been projected, up to 2020 the total increase in energy consumption of 3.1% per year is projected, with a trend of 4.3% per year in this share of electricity, while gas fuels of 4.7% per year. Sustainable development measures, or energy efficiency, would reduce the estimated increase in energy consumption to 2.7% a year by reducing electricity to a trend of 3.7% a year and gas fuel to 4.2% a year. It should be noted that with this projection and the estimated increase in electricity consumption in the Republic of Croatia, in 2020 we would only achieve today's average consumption per capita at EU level with 27 Member States. As regards the specific scenarios for certain types of energy, speaking only about electricity, the assessment of the very requirement for the electricity system in 2020 is such that the total consumption of electricity according to the sustainable scenario and without its own consumption of power plants would be 28 tera watt hours and in 2008 for comparison it was 18 tera watt hours, and as a solution for the supply of electricity, it is proposed to build the following basic production capacities in Croatia by 2020. For large hydroelectric capacity of 300 megawatts, natural gas thermopower plants and coal, about 1200 megawatts. The draft strategy also envisions intensive construction of renewable resources by 2020, which would naturally follow the pace of building conventional facilities. Renewable sources that encourage energy production and, according to the EU, the directives we have transposed into our legislation consider those power plants less than 10 megawatts since energy production in these facilities is not yet market competitive. For example, as regards oil and gas, Croatia had 56% of its energy needs for 2007, which it covered with imports themselves and fell right on oil and gas. What we estimate is that domestic oil production will be reduced to only 600,000 tonnes in 2020 and domestic gas production will be reduced from 2.9 billion square metres to 1.8 estimated. It is well noted that 60% of the total natural gas supply is now concentrated in the Russian Federation, the Caspian region as well as Qatar, and the active energy policy in the region itself towards the countries of the European Union, and taking account of geopolitical areas, the strategy proposal will continuously offer projects that will ensure supply and significantly improve it as a terminal for ingested natural gas, the networking of transport systems of gas from which, as the most significant, we single out the connection of the gas system with the Hungarian South Stream project and the Ionian-Adriatic Trans Adriatic Pipe Line pipeline. As it is hastily to carry out these activities tells the fact that the still gas system of the Republic of Croatia is connected to the gas system in Europe only through one entrance to Rogatac in which the gas from the Russian Federation is continuously imported and at the level of a third annual consumption. And the production of gas from domestic beds is also constant over the year, so for example, the gas storage plant in Kola has a working volume of 550 million spatial meters and represents an operational storage facility that balances annual purchases, which means that in the summer it is impressed in the warehouse and in winter when consumption is 4 times larger, the difference in consumption is compensated. As regards the investments themselves, it is worth noting that the strategy opens up space for further investment, which is a foreign investment in the energy sector at this time, assessing up to 15 billion euros, and as I said Croatia does not currently have a full accumulation of capital for such large investment ventures, and in the segment of the liberalised energy market and the open energy market, we expect also a significant interest in the engagement of foreign investors, and of course the interest of investors and the interest of investments in Croatia's energy potential is extremely high, especially in the part relating to renewable energy sources. These investments and the estimated investment value of up to 15 billion euros are estimated to affect the growth of our gross domestic product by 7 billion euros, i.e. 600 million euros annually, resulting in the fact that the average annual GDP growth rate precisely due to these investments in the energy sector could be increased by around 1 percentage point. However, given the multiplicity of investment effects in the energy sector, unlike this conservative assessment, a slightly more optimistic assessment of GDP growth as the direct consequences of investment in the energy system could be significantly higher and up to a maximum of 2 percentage points. The draft strategy also sets out the objectives of which, apart from achieving energy security, fosters further development and science, the integration of science and industry in the Republic of Croatia, the construction of new buildings opens up the possibility of a new investment cycle, active inclusion and domestic investors and companies, of course contributing to increasing and productivity as well as increasing employment, GDP growth, the overall development of the competitiveness of Croatia's economy as a whole with the potential for energy in Croatia to be a stronger export product. I thank you for your attention, and I thank all the committees who have held the debate on this Strategy proposal as well as their suggestions for this text to be even better and to further outline Croatia's real needs in the energy sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40398	Thank you very much. Do the representatives of the committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40399	Thank you very much. The Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 18th session held on 8 July and 21 October the proposal for a strategy and energy development of the Republic of Croatia, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 19 June 2009. The proposal for a strategy for energy development of the Republic of Croatia is in accordance with the provisions of Article 140 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed as an interested working body. The members of the Committee are familiar with the written opinion submitted by the "Green Action" on the proposal for a strategy and energy development of the Republic of Croatia and after the introduction of the proposal by the committee members, the representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Sector for Agriculture, Food Industry and Forestry, the "Green Action", the Croatian Expert Association for Solar Energy and the wood biomass producers assessed that it was a significant document that would enable Croatian citizens and the economy to provide adequate supply of electricity during the given period. Above all, the president of Green Action, explaining the written opinion of the association, pointed out that this strategy should not be adopted and, in the opinion of Green Action, this document should not be adopted for the reason that the construction of 2 coal thermopower plants opens the door to the construction of a nuclear power plant and pushes us into energy waste and increasing imports of fossil fuels, reduces the aim for the participation of renewable energy sources, and also because it is based on the constant annual growth of 5% of GDP, which is far from today's reality. In his debate, a representative of the Croatian Solar Energy Expert Association pointed out that this proposal for a strategy for the energy development of the Republic of Croatia has minorised the use of solar energy and other renewable sources for energy production, while unfoundedly favouring the production of energy based on imports of fossil fuels, thus making use of renewable energy technologies a great opportunity to employ at regional level. The representative of the Wood Biomass Association of wood processing industry and the producer of wood biomass in its debate pointed out that even 57% of the total wood mass of Croatian forests can be offered for use for energy purposes, i.e. Total cca 2.8 million meters cubic per year. He also pointed out that this strategy should allow all forest remains to be used through good organisation and incentives by the state to avoid poisoning people's health and the protection of the atmosphere, I mean mission TH4. He further noted that there is a potential for annual electricity production in the Republic of Croatia of 1.24 terawat hours from biomass. In further discussion, it is thought that it is a document that has far-reaching consequences on the country's future energy stability due to its importance. However, attention was drawn to how before the new strategy was proposed, the discussion on the implementation of the 2002 Strategy and the energy development of the Republic of Croatia as well as the overall state in the energy sector of the Republic of Croatia was to be held. It is further pointed out that this document does not sufficiently highlight the role, importance and promotion of the exploitation of renewable energy sources, primarily biomass for electricity and heat production. It is pointed out that the Republic of Croatia has significant comparative advantages in this part of the Syrian base such as high coverage of forests and significant areas of agricultural land that are not directly in the food production function. The electricity and heat that can be obtained through the processing and conversion of biomass speaks about the possibility of 100% use of wood and agricultural biomass for energy purposes. The Republic of Croatia has a total of 4 million and 800 thousand metres of cubic annual forest biomass that includes both wood, wood and wood industry residues and bark. In this regard, it is pointed out that the use for the forest biomass system is for energy. for heat energy,... amounts to approximately 800 to 900 thousand cubic metres per year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the debate, pointing to the need for domestic consumption of produced wood biomass energy, there is information that, since 2010, every ton of fossil CO2 will be paid at approximately 25 euros in fines and every tonne of biological CO2 at approximately 25 euros in bonuses. In practice, for example, a ton of burned wood is stimulated by 30 euros per tonne, and a ton of coal is punished by approximately 32 euros per tonne. And it is therefore pointed out that this would mean that coal accumulates by more than 50%, and the wooden sycamore is costing about 40%. Furthermore, the debate draws attention to the possibility of producing forest biomass in the so-called so-called forest biomass. the energy forests that are just beginning to be realized on the experimental surfaces. Croatia has about 600 to 700 thousand hectares of degraded forest surfaces with a possible production of forest biomass of approximately two million metres cubic meters per year, which corresponds to the equivalent of 685 thousand tonnes of oil. Some committee members warned in the debate that this strategy envisions significant investments in the energy sector during the current period and up to 15 billion euros, which is why its implementation should ensure a stronger contribution to the development of the Croatian industry, which is not sufficiently and clearly stated in the document. Therefore, implementation of the Implementing Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council is to be carried out by the European Parliament and of the Council. The programme must determine such dynamics of the realisation of energy policy, through concrete measures and activities in a shorter period of time so as not to repeat ourselves for our industry the bad situation that occurred after the last gas crisis. It also noted the need to link the implementation of this strategy to other sectoral strategies, particularly the Water Management Strategy. Furthermore, it is thought that this strategy and its possible negative effects, which is energy insurance based on expensive import fossil fuels, should also be seen in the context of the high external debt of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, it was pointed out that the strategy did not sufficiently highlight the ownership dimension of forest and agricultural biomass, since their production, i.e. forests and agricultural land in large parts of state property. And that is why this production should be encouraged by domestic companies, which show great interest. In fact, the production of energy from forest biomass and the natural richness of forests is an important issue that opens up the possibility for a foreign investor to have this natural wealth, and then energy sovereignty can also be questioned. At the end of the debate, the Committee members assessed that a significant effort has been made to develop this strategy, that a satisfactory public debate has been carried out, and that it sets the frameworks for what will happen in the energy field by 2020. However, renewable energy sources, primarily the use of biomass, are not included in the proposal for a strategy in their overall fullness, both in terms of raw materials potential and in the broad scope of use. And just announced the construction of two coal thermal power plants and the possibility of building a nuclear power plant, until natural energy supply potentials have been solved and exploited, require the inclusion of the general public from the host of companies, professional and other institutions to civil society associations in the creation of documents for the implementation of the strategy. Therefore, by supporting the adoption of a strategy on the energy development of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee members agree that representatives of relevant professional associations and producers of agricultural and forest biomass should be included in the Committee's work group on the implementation of the Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which concerns renewable energy sources. On the basis of the debate held, the Committee on the Regional Development of Forestry and Water Economy decided, most of the votes 5 to, 4 against, to propose to the Croatian Parliament, to adopt a strategy for the energy development of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40400	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40401	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I will read the report on behalf of the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction who discussed this issue together. The Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament discussed at a joint session held on 2 July 2009. Proposal for a strategy for the energy development of the Republic of Croatia, which has been submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 19 June this year. The Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction on the basis of Article 144, 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the strategy's proposal as an interested working body. The meetings of the two committees were attended by representatives of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing, INA-e d.d., Croatian Forest d.d., Pro-gas do.o., and NGOs in environmental protection, Dor, Red Action, Croatian Expert Association for Solar Energy, the Centre for Renewable Energy and Eco 2000. In its opening statement, the proposaler's representative explained the implementation of the procedure for the draft energy development strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which started in 2007, and the Green Paper sent to the public debate on 10 November 2008 with the planned duration of the public debate of a month. The public hearing was extended until 31 December 2008, and the ministry was close to written remarks to which the expert commission was apparent until March. An indication of the expert commission on issues, comments and proposals from the public debate is available on the Energy Strategy website. During the development of the strategy, a detailed analysis and evaluation of future energy consumption across all energy and sectors was made, and projections for the period 2009 to 2020, with the application of energy efficiency measures in the Republic of Croatia would grow by a rate of 2.7% annually of which the dominant share has an electricity share with a growth trend of 3.7%. The proposed strategy is based on security of supply, competitiveness of the energy sector and unsustainable development. It is proposed to launch the activities of the Croatian Nuclear Energy Programme, which would examine the possibilities of building such a power plant, and which would fill out the basic advances for the launch of this programme. The strategy envisions significant investments in the energy sector, so that around 15 billion euros are planned to be invested in these investments in the energy sector between 2009 and 2020, of which 60% is waste on the electricity system. The Centre for Renewable Energy CERES and the Croatian Solar Energy Expert Association HSUSE have submitted the Committee on the Protection of the Environment to the written observations. The CERES representative said briefly that the proposed strategy was completely neglected to use solar energy to obtain electricity. It is primarily here that it is warned of the negligible impact of the rapid development of new technologies, solar technologies, for example. photovoltaic technologies in the use of solar energy. Last year, about 50 directors and managers of Europe's largest photovoltaic companies claimed that by 2020 they were able to cover as much as 12% of EU electricity consumption by photovoltaic technology and modules with an installation of about 400 watts of FN systems. With the production plan of $600 per kilowatt of the most advanced tank-based FN module, quality competition for the construction of a nuclear power plant is achieved. The Green Action's written remarks were received, explained the representative of that association, stressing that it does not support the proposed strategy, as it plans to build two coal-based thermal power plants, opening the door to the construction of a nuclear power plant and waste disposal sites, and implementing the project "Adrija". From the point of view, the reality of the assessment of consumption growth has been warned that the strategy is based on the projected fixed annual growth of 5% The strategy is estimated to lead to increasing imports of fossil fuels and it is noted that the International Energy Agency has recently corrected its estimates of future oil production and has warned of possible global oil shortages for half the next decade. During the debate, the view was expressed on the insufficient representation of biofuels, bio breathing and bioethanol, in particular biofuels of the second generation and biogas in the proposed strategy. The commission is an emphasis on low planned biogas energy production and it is pointed out that there is already an interest in the production and use of biogas in the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, it is noted that the strategy is well represented by the use of wind energy as a renewable energy source. The following debate mentioned that Croatia has an existing energy strategy adopted in 2002, which is valid until 2012 and that the main idea of adopting a new strategy to meet the commitments of the ratified Kyoto protocol with the aim of reducing the amount of greenhouse gas emissions is not confirmed in the proposal for a new strategy since the construction of the thermal power plants is planned on coal and gas. It is further mentioned that the launch of a Croatian nuclear programme is in direct contrast with the moratorium provisions on the construction of nuclear power plants by 2015, based on a valid programme of spatial planning of the Republic of Croatia. It is also believed that the strategy increases the dependence of the Republic of Croatia on fossil fuels and that there is no recognition of the potential of renewable energy sources in the Republic of Croatia. The energy potentials of the Republic of Croatia in the area of hydropower plants are mentioned in the question of the planned construction of HE Lesce and the question at which negotiations with Hungary... HE'S WEIRD. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since an increase in energy consumption is expected, the question of stimulating electrical and... Cars. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is noted that Croatia is at a turning point between the selection of fossil fuel, oil, oil and gas-based imported energy sources and the ecologically clean option of using solar biomass, wind, small hydropower plants and hydrogen and which does not have to be imported. The view is expressed that the strategy should contain a clear view on how the energy needs of the Republic of Croatia are met and already contain a decision on energy options on which energy supply will be based at this stage. Here is primarily thought of a decision to build a nuclear power plant or select other options, renewable energy sources and the like. The need to find ways to reduce energy consumption and to find an energy option that will guarantee a sufficient amount of energy and also be acceptable from the point of view of economic development is highlighted. Due to the limited duration of the session, all present were not able to express their views and neither was the proposing representative able to regain the evidence of the observations made. After the debate was held, the Committee on Environmental Protection decided unanimously to propose to the Croatian Parliament to postpone the debate on the proposal for a strategy for the energy development of the Republic of Croatia until the proposal to provide the committees with answers to all observations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40402	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Economy, Mr. Representative and Committee Chairman Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40403	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. At its 26th session held on 30 June 2009, the Economic Committee discussed the proposal for a strategy for the energy development of the Republic of Croatia. We discussed this issue as a parent body. In the opening statement, the proposing representative informed the committee that the Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia had been adopted for the period until 2020, taking into account that since the adoption of the 2002 Energy Development Strategy, the Republic of Croatia has become a candidate for full membership in the European Union, adopted the Energy Community Agreement and signed and ratified the Kyoto Protocol as well as the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. The objectives of the strategy and priority activities relate to oil, natural gas and coal, the electrical energy system, the centralised heat system, renewable energy sources and energy efficiency. Under the conditions of high instability of energy prices on the world market with projections showing that energy consumption worldwide will increase by about 50% by 2030 and also taking into account that today the Republic of Croatia imports over 50% of all its energy sources this strategy provides answers to security of supply, competitiveness of the energy sector and sustainable development that is being developed according to the specificities of the Republic of Croatia and its national interests. A well-designed strategy is one of the preconditions for a strong contribution to the development of the Croatian economy, with the projected wider use of renewable energy sources affecting the creation of new jobs, the adoption of modern technologies and the reduction of necessary investments in environmental protection, so all of which were reported by the applicant. In the debate followed by the proposing representatives, in response to the questions raised, they explained that the plan for the construction of the coal thermal power plant was until 2015 and that a possible decision on the construction of the nuclear power plant should be taken by 2012. From the total amount of fuel provided for transport consumption by 2020, 10% should be from domestic renewable energy sources. With regard to the representation of domestic oil in total consumption, it has been clarified that the Republic of Croatia covers about 20% of total oil consumption with its sources, so the rest of the oil is imported. In view of the fact that the thermal power plant provides 6% more power than hydropower plants, the question is whether this ratio will affect increased CO2 gas emissions and jeopardise the accepted Kyoto protocol criteria. The response pointed out that carbon dioxide emissions from new thermopower plants due to the introduction of new technologies would also be significantly reduced within the limits of commitments undertaken. After the debate was held, the Committee decided, with 8 votes for and 1 abstention, to propose to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusion: "The proposal for a strategy for the energy development of the Republic of Croatia is accepted.".
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40404	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40405	Thank you very much. Mr. President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. In any case, the Energy Development Strategy and we all agree with it aims to ensure a sufficient need for energy and we fully support the principles of secure and reliable sustainability of the energy development and general development of Croatia and in this light and competitiveness of the energy system. However, we at the Croatian People's Party Club for a number of reasons, which I will mention later in the debate, think that this proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but also by part of the energy profession shows a complete lack of developmental vision and base my own strategy on what many countries have already done in the environment and have come to the realization that they have done wrong. This proposal, instead of providing us in the future, and at the same time making it easier for the energy, financial and ecological crisis, in such a way that with as little energy as possible, we live and produce, push us into increasing energy efficiency and addiction. In all three elaborate scenarios, both blue and green and white, the strategy envisions an increase in energy consumption of as much as 40%, 44% by 2020 and 76% by 2030 with that optimistic, very optimistic annual GDP growth of 5% annually. While at the same time the foreign policy of the European Union has legalised the need to make energy efficiency of 20% binding by 2020, which ultimately leads to a reduction in total consumption of 9%. So, energy efficiency is going to reduce consumption, and we are forecasting the strategy by 2020. 44% and by 2030. 76%. Both the blue and the green and white scenarios point us to an increasing energy dependence on the imports of fossil fuels, as the construction of a coal-based thermal power plant is envisaged, and in some future a nuclear power plant. For example. the myth of a major increase in energy consumption in Croatia every year breaks down and the fact that, for example, the total energy consumption from 2006 was lower by 0.3% compared to 2005, and the gross social product increased by 4.8% compared to the same year. The government of the Republic of Croatia and part of the energy profession are constantly stating that Croatia spends less energy per capita than the Member States of the European Union, and deliberately leaving out information that energy intensity i.e. Energy consumption per unit of gross social product in Croatia is even twice as high as in a member of the European Union, which means that Croatia is a very high energy efficiency helmet for members in the European Union, which is an obvious indicator of the huge needs and reserves and space for increasing our country's energy efficiency. Furthermore, the 20% share of renewables in energy consumption target, which would be in line with the European Union's legal obligations, is relatively relative to including large hydropower plants among renewable energy sources, which is a step backwards from that first draft strategy in September 2008 and contrary to the European Union directives. Introducing the possibility of building a thermal power plant on coal or nuclear plants, this proposal clearly placed the government behind the interest of energy monopolies, neglecting the interests of citizens and the government apparently promotes the principle that it is acceptable for citizens and the environment to pay allegedly cheaper forms of electricity production. The opening of a full public debate on the various scenarios of this energy strategy, we at the Croatian People's Party club believe that another common medical spins of the Government are present since the Energy Development Strategy is about listing the objects that should be built, while at the same time it does not come down to building a system where the real economy, the real economy, is a key element and a key factor. We at the Croatian People's Party club want to remind ourselves that the entire Energy Development Strategy was adopted by the Croatian Assembly in 2002 and we have it based on the reform of the energy sector that was adopted in the Croatian Parliament in 2001. Therefore, Croatia has existing relevant documents, and the Energy Development Strategy, but it also has an Implementation Programme for the Energy Development Strategy adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in March 2004, adopted for three years 2004-2007. And the strategy implementation programme says that after three years, the government will analyse the programme's effects and refer to the Croatian Parliament. Did we in the Croatian Parliament, it was a commitment in 2007, did we in the Croatian Parliament have the opportunity to discuss this document? We didn't. We didn't. That we should have, a legal obligation, I think we are and it is an extremely important area, which is energy. We at the Croatian People's Party club think it would be a minimum of decency and responsibility for Croatian citizens to discuss the effects of the current strategy before discussing this strategy, and in particular the effects of the Programme for the Implementation of the Energy Development Strategy, which the Government adopted during 2004-2007. And there's a whole series of questions going on. First, why is the legislative framework not set up for the current strategy, not this new but currently valid strategy, since it has completely blocked the development of the energy market. Why does the Continuity Government assume the obligation to set prices instead of regulators, and we have it, since it prevents the direct establishment of market relations in energy? Why aren't the projected buildings in the energy system being built? According to the HEP development plan, energy units from a thousand megawatts of installed power should be built in Croatia from 2004 to 2008. The only thing that was done was a 40 megawatt hydropower plant, and according to this new strategy, 2,000 megawatts are planned. In the first strategy we had 1,000, in five years only 40, in the new strategy we plan 2000, not to mention the data already said, an investment of approximately 10-15 billion euros was planned. The fact that the freezing of energy prices in this current situation has led to complete incompetence, financial inability for any development cycle and the story of the development cycle in these financial conditions of energy companies is an illusion, not to mention something that is known to everyone, and it is called the Croatian electricity industry, especially lately. Our heat is in a complete financial coma and gas companies from distribution fees have no serious potential for investment. Therefore, from which resources we plan to finance what is provided for in this strategy. In the Club of the Croatian People's Party, we believe that, first of all, any more serious debate on this matter needs to be discussed and defined, first of all, what are our goals, what are our potentials, what are our realistic possibilities, and I think that based on the conclusions of such a debate, we could create elements or we could create elements for the creation of a real strategy, a strategy that gives us the opportunity, which gives opportunity and which gives a vision. What are our targets for reducing CO2 and other greenhouse gases, and what will the development sectors have? Does that say... Is that somewhere involved in this strategy? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There isn't. We've taken responsibility. It doesn't matter that we've taken responsibility for ourselves. Furthermore, what can contribute to increasing energy efficiency in the development of the energy sector and what are the possible scenarios? What can renewable sources contribute and with what positive and negative consequences? Do we have that in strategy? There isn't. In fact, the potential of renewable energy is minorized when we talk about renewable energy. We at the Croatian People's Party club believe that investment in the energy sector at the moment is one of the key investments in which this country, and first of all the responsible government must move on. Agriculture and energy are areas that depend directly on imports and both areas are resolute, and agriculture, we have to solve for ourselves. The second question is, do we know that? Energy, we have to deal with it ourselves. The hydropotentials we've neglected completely. We're running out of water, and through that water, we're running out of unused eus that we could use for hydrothermia. But that's why we plan coal, plan other sources. Furthermore, 80% of the hydropower plant, home building material, home materials, domestic knowledge, domestic technology and ultimately, many of our companies were recognizable and still recognizable in the area. Therefore, investment in energy is definitely a key thing at this point, and if anything at this point is obvious as a development option, it is an investment in energy and every responsible state, every responsible government would assume that space as a chance to leave energy, out of recession. Is that what we're doing? Is that foreseen in... We don't read it in the club of the Croatian People's Party. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we believe that before any further serious debate on this strategy should give us an opportunity in the Croatian Parliament to discuss the implementation and effects of the existing strategy, what our situation in the entire energy sector is and to define long-term objectives, not 20, not 30 years, minimum 50 years, and because of the development of the energy sector and environmental protection. Soon there is also a debate on the award of concessions to the Lesce hydropower plant, the start of construction based on a study of environmental protection from the 1980s. A 25-year-old study based on a permit by HEP and entering into one construction process with all the negative consequences that are present and therefore we believe that the long-term objectives of the development of the energy sector and environmental protection should be discussed for at least 50 years. And again, we believe that in the Croatian People's Party club, we believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia rather than implement a whole series of concrete projects under the current strategy opens this whole debate to simply create an impression in the public that it is trying to do something in the energy crisis, even at the level of the debate, because it will focus on the level of debate and create an alibi for the fact that in the past 5 years in energy it has done almost nothing. Almost nothing. We at the club of the Croatian People's Party will not support this strategy and ask to open a debate in the Croatian Assembly on the implementation and effects of the existing strategy and that the Government respects its legal commitment to the Croatian Parliament, which is to give us information on the implementation of the existing strategy in the period 2004 to 2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40406	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40407	Dear Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, ladies and gentlemen. Here it is finally before us a new strategy for the development of the energy sector of the Republic of Croatia, an important document, a document which, to a considerable extent, determines the energy future of the Republic of Croatia and is a key political, economic, security issue for all of us. However, what I would like to stress specifically on the introduction is a good strategy for the energy development of the Republic of Croatia, but only a prerequisite for what we want, which is the energy security of the Republic of Croatia, a certain and reliable energy future for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, Croatia and as a prerequisite for the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and a prerequisite for stronger investment in the Republic of Croatia. Without adequate infrastructure, these conditions cannot be met, but it is important to point out from strategy to energy future, to the first 500, 600 or 700 megavat route is a very long, one serious energy facility power 500, 600, 800 megawatts, I do not want to talk this class about primary energy lasts 5, 6 to 7 years and should be taken into account in conditions where Croatia imports more than 20% of electricity and many more primary energy. Therefore, we hope to adopt this Strategy by tomorrow, but this Strategy is a basic document that only gives guidance, gives frameworks but real changes last for years. For them, we should have people, professionals, energy experts, increasingly present in Croatia to give their objective knowledge, profession and professionalism to Croatian citizens measured objective, based information. There are normally different views, different interests, different opinions but also different titles, when we talk about large strategic decisions, then that share of the profession in the Croatian public, normally besides all those interested, is a necessary condition for our discussions to be professional, competent but I would say effective, because from energy strategy to energy security we will need for years. People, billions of euros, one 500 facility, 600 megawatts not only for 5.6 years but for a minimum billion and a half euros, to ensure these preconditions, to provide these resources to have what is the common goal. One important prerequisite for the change from the Energy Strategy to energy security, to the desired energy reality, is the relevant energy communication strategy. I said certainly all interested but above all, the profession must play a more important and important role in explaining to Croatian citizens all of those very often conflicting attitudes, one is desires, another are possibilities, third reality. The latest Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia was adopted in April 2002 and since then significant changes have occurred that have conditioned adaptation and upgrade of this strategy and today we are discussing a new energy strategy of the Republic of Croatia. During this period, the amendments that conditional upon the adoption of the new Strategy are related to the fact that Croatia has become a candidate for membership in the European Union all imposes significant legal and legislative obligations and adjustments in the field of energy. Also during that period, the Republic of Croatia signed a contract to the Energy Community, a Kyoto Protocol has been ratified, which is not only I would say concern about clean energy, about protecting the environment, but it is a Protocol that has very significant costs in its implementation. The high instability in oil and other energy prices has conditionaled on updating and obtaining a new document. What's a strategy? The strategy gives, in such conditions, a global energy market which is rapidly changing in terms of prices, in terms of reliability, in terms of predictability in terms of security. Under such conditions, a way to minimise all security and energy risks is an extremely important challenge and tasks. Energy geopoliticals, energy geostrategics as foreign affairs, the role of the European Union, NATO's role in ensuring energy security not only of the Republic of Croatia but also of the whole of this area, for these reasons, are increasingly debated in the European Parliament and the European Union with regard to the energy security strategy and the energy future, and also in discussions of NATO's bodies dominate issues related to energy security, notably energy geopolitical and energy geostrategics, in order to avoid the fact that the European Union is solely dependent on primary energy sources that come from one side of the world, diversification of sources or also diversification of supply routes is part of the strategy on which each country needs to take account and optimise its own interests and to optimise its scope that offers significant opportunities to improve energy security to a maximum extent. The Republic of Croatia has significant advantages in this respect and in this area, I would say, much more active and agile than it may have been before. The basic principles of the Strategy, the Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia focuses on a number of areas, one of which is related to the definition of the country's clear role in energy. The role of the state in energy is limited and we should be aware of this, the fundamental task of the state is concern about energy security, environmental protection, protection against monopoly and consumer protection, but what is particularly important is building a legislative framework and, in the past period, much has been done positively in terms of harmonising the energy legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal energy gains of the European Union, but encouraging energy efficiency as well as creating favourable conditions for stronger investment in the energy sector is one of the particularly important tasks of the Croatian government. What the Strategy also points out is the following facts, the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia will be based on market principles, the state intervenes in market processes only when participants are affected by effects such as impaired security of supply, quality of the environment and abuse of monopoly. The energy sector must also be increasingly in the future characterised by a strong business initiative, strong private capital investments because today the state has very limited financial opportunities especially when it comes to the necessary financial investments that are due to some estimates of 10 to 15 billion euros. The Republic of Croatia also supports, in accordance with the European Energy Strategy, a full increase in energy efficiency. What is very important and what needs to be taken into account, and I would say constantly is the subject of a debate that sources, which choice of energy sources. Developing a diverse energy structure is a fundamental definition. The energy development of the Republic of Croatia will be based on the energy, economic and ecological evaluation of all available energy options. This exclusion which today is dominant in the debates in certain public stands, the public political scene, is the result of a lack of understanding of the overall picture of the advantages and disadvantages associated with individual primary energies. The Republic of Croatia, as pointed out in the strategy, needs to evaluate the specificity of its geographical position. It is one of the strong arguments that the Republic of Croatia has not yet used enough. The Republic of Croatia is extremely important in the energy sector does not benefit from the fact that the Mediterranean country and these facts result from many advantages from other countries. The Republic of Croatia has energy routes and a country that has extremely suitable locations to build energy facilities such as the terminal for ingested natural gas, underground natural gas storage and CO2, in particular CO2, the thermal power plant on coal, nuclear power plants and these are facts that should in any case not only be established but through the construction of future energy facilities to the maximum extent possible. The perception that exists today about coal thermal power plants is completely wrong. It must certainly be an integral part of public expert debates. If 10,000 megawatts are being built in Germany today, if several thousand megawatts are being built on the opposite side of the Adriatic Sea, then all of these reasons are why these developed countries are very much taking care of their energy security, but also protecting their environment, such decisions deserve much more attention and understanding and the Croatian public. The geopolitical position of the Republic of Croatia should therefore certainly be well exploited because it is a country that has an extremely good location for the construction of new energy facilities. Furthermore, the problem of public debate and public resistance to the construction of energy facilities is understandable, but in this sense I really stress the need for a more quality, more comprehensive, communication, energy strategy that needs to provide Croatian people with all the information that is important for the issue as far as possible before the location permits and everything that precedes it. Studies on environmental protection, investment studies, idea projects, etc. In order for the strategy that we will adopt, we hope tomorrow, to reach energy security and, with the strategy, we need a strong strategic energy leadership. These are people, these are financial resources, new funding models that deserve certainly special attention how today, when capital is needed, it is very difficult to provide. The strategic leadership is people, institutions, knowledge and the Croatian economy. It should be pointed out that Croatia was once a leader in the energy sector of this entire area, that quality and efficient companies such as Končar, Dalekovod, which were building the energy sector of the Republic of Croatia, but not only of the Republic of Croatia, but their investments, their projects, their successful implementations of major important energy facilities are also linked to the most developed countries of the world, Sweden, Norway, Finland, etc. What needs to be pointed out in particular in the end is openness to all energy options without banning or favouring certain energy technologies. Each of them has its advantages, has its shortcomings and understanding of all these advantages and shortcomings in a comprehensive energy strategy in the Croatian public is very important. Creating an incentive legislative and regulatory framework, exploiting as I have said a favourable geopolitical position that is not sufficiently exploited by boredom. Finally, it should be said that we have had quality energy strategies, that we will very soon adopt a new, updated energy strategy, but the path from energy strategy to energy security, i.e. The availability of the necessary amounts of energy at acceptable prices for all Croatian citizens, for the Croatian economy, I would say is very long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40408	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40409	Dear President, Mrs. Obradovic, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. The name of this material of the proposal is the proposal for a strategy of energy development of the Republic of Croatia. However, I think that name should be changed and that it should also read the Strategy for stealing Croatian electricity and Croatian state. One word strategy or strategy can be called a strategy for undermining the energy independence of the Republic of Croatia. Why did I start out like that? You've been following very well in the last few months what's been going on in "Croatian Electricity", Mravak Hep bought electricity for 83 euros, sold for 20.5 euros, not at our own but at our own expense. Croatia's Electricity has lost at least a billion and 400 million kuna due to the disastrous business decisions of its administration this year. HEP's problems began with a decision by the administration headed by President Anvak to buy more than two-thirds of the annual import needs for 2009 last summer, the purchased 350 megawatts of electricity HEP paid 255m euros, namely every megawatt of 83.3 euros, which is almost the highest price in the history of energy trade. So this strategy, this historic step, has resulted in damages in the end of 1.4 billion kuna. Instead of buying daily, monthly or quarterly, and electricity is on the market in abundance, which is common when the price is high, HEP administration made a billion kunas worth of damage to the state. Simplifiedly, every megawatt watch they bought at 83.3 euros sold TLM 20.5 euros each. At the job, they lost another 400m euros and made the matter an additional or incredible or suspicious contract with TLM worth another 4 years. And finally, the State's Attorney's Office sues Ants for damages of 600 thousand kunas, and it's solidarity with four other directors for Buljujasic, instead of someone taking care of what was really going on there. Well, that's the strategic leadership my predecessor spoke of. I don't know if Ant, whether Buljujasic or the one who's on the run today. The rest of the energy ended up at the Mostar factory.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40410	The council is not a courtroom. Stick to the energy development strategy. We are neither prosecutors nor judges, but we are representatives of the Croatian Parliament and we are discussing the strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40411	Okay. The rest of the energy here is how this strategy goes, ending the Mostar aluminium factory. TLM became the biggest buyer of electricity from HEP with a 57-dollar stake. TLM then, as today, needed 10 times less energy than the one he bought cheaply. The rest is at Croatian damage and clearly still ends in Mostar. I am sure the HEP administration has done so through its strategy on purpose, and therefore the chairman of the Supervisory Board should have become the chairman of HEP, and now the chairman of the management of the same HEP, the former chairman of the Supervisory Board, becomes the chairman of the Supervisory Board on 3 May. I wouldn't want to be in the skin of those workers in the river.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40412	For the second time, I would like to remind MP Damir Cain to stick to the agenda and agenda, and leave the trial and the charges to the State's Attorney's office and the court and let's not deal with politics here from the Assembly's pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40413	All right, all right. But the damages of a billion and 400 million kuna should be dealt with by both the state's attorney and this Parliament. Which we are strategists, confirms the fact that we even offered a strategy to build an atomic power plant in Albania. So one bankrupt state that imports 50% of energy offers an atomic power plant to another country that costs about 5 billion euros or 7 billion dollars. That is why I said that this strategy should simply be called a strategy to undermine the energy independence of the Republic of Croatia. On the fifth and sixth sides of this strategy, it is said that the dependence of the Republic of Croatia on energy imports is increasing, that today the Republic of Croatia imports more than 50% of its energy, in the Croatian balance sheet of primary energy consumption is oil and oil derivatives are participating with about 50% and natural gas is about 25%. The consumption of these energy forms in the future will grow while domestic production of oil and natural gas due to depletion of these beds will clearly decline. Before the Republic of Croatia, many of the challenges related to security of energy supply, the main source of global natural gas oil is concentrated in several countries, etc. The following can be said here, that the Croatian country is in recession today, that we are just entering a real crisis. I say it will be a period before Christmas until the 2010 tourist season and I think it will be our most difficult period since '95. A year. Just one piece of information. And there's a lot of talk about the gross product in this strategy. Gross social product fell in '99. year minus 1.5%. '99. The year was the year of NATO impact on SR Yugoslavia, the year when Croatia was de facto in some way isolated to change on January 3rd, the liquidity was then 25 billion kuna, the banks collapsed on the current tape, and the decline in gross social product was 1.5%. In 2009, the gross social product in the first quarter falls 6.7% in the second 6.3%, meaning at an annual level between 5 and 6%, which will say 4 times that drop will be greater than in '99. A year. What do we do? Increase consumption, clearly everything, including energy, boost investment, mostly foreign ones, and we see in Croatia today, de facto they can invest in only one Croatian branch. The banks have taken over, so the banks won't, they won't, because they have, they took over the INA, so they don't need to invest, they don't need to have a market, they don't need to have it in shipbuilding, they need to save Croatia. Let's not fool ourselves that someone on the side will. But that's why I say away... from the Oilies. So the only thing that can interest foreign investors right now is the energy sector. I am personally absolutely against the privatisation of Croatia's electricity industry. Even though it's up to this kind of business and this kind of strategy, I'm almost certain and it's only a matter of timing, when it's going to turn out. What should also be said, on the other hand, is that in the last seven, eight years, we certainly lost 4.5 billion euros in foreign investment, where we could hire maybe 70, 80,000 workers, how many of them we would lose in 2009. One such investment that we have driven away in our time, and the same energy investment is the company "Adrija". As easily as we drove her away, the Russians are interested in her again, but they don't have any money today. Today you're that luxury I just can't afford. And why did we do it there in 2005? Just for a presidential candidate's campaign. We fought all the time and it's part of the energy strategy, against the LNG terminal, Istria wanted it, Rijeka didn't, so in the end, however fortunately it changed the way it behaves. It'll end up on Krka. But the question arises when. Although the investment weighs about 800m euros. And that's the only thing that at the moment the de facto in bankruptcy ends and May 3rd can keep that coastal-goran county alive. Of course I'm appealing to help that shipyard on May 3rd as soon as possible. So when we talk about this energy strategy, we need to understand that as a country, we clearly cannot live under a glass bell. Why, for example, is it? Istra wanted LNG in Plomin, and today we want at least one LNG facility, say, in Plomin? Well, because of the development, because he would come if LNG came, then that train tunnel Ucka would be built. Thus, not Istria, but the whole of Croatia would be on the railway route from Barcelona to Moscow, Slovenia could not isolate us because the Istrian railways or Croatians still have to go through Istria to get to Zagreb through Slovenia. And finally, the most important "Plomin 3" would be on the gas and this is how the County of Istria will have to fight the coal plant that this strategy does not say will be in Plomin but is to assume it is the intensity of our strategy. "Plomin 2" should admit it even reduced the emissions of these harmful sulphur pairs, it should be acknowledged, he hired some people but at this point there the concentration of a thousand megawatts in one place simply didn't need it. I think the victim should be submitted to maybe someone else in the Republic of Croatia, not just that little narrowed area, let's say, the maze. Page 37 of this strategy discusses coal, a little later but before that on page 21 there is a sustainable scenario of unnecessary energy consumption and gross direct energy consumption. Here we see, among other things, that industry will need 64% more energy in the traffic by 2030, 69%, in the general consumption of about 88.6%. If we keep in mind that Croatia is almost deindustrialized at this time we with this consumption de facto can say we are going back to that position of our 90 industry. In order to simply conduct a debate on this strategy, I think we should also have a debate on the industrial policy strategy because at this point in the Republic of Croatia, industry is the first economic branch in only one county and this is the County of Istria, regardless of what we all experience as a primary tourist destination. Without industry, there's clearly no exports, there's no technological development, and it means we're only 2030 in a court of law we're going to be spending in the industry that we had, I don't know, maybe back in the '90s. Okay, now more and more is being saved. It's okay, but it should also be mentioned because one country can't just live on trade, tourism, services, agriculture, banks, smuggling, but we need to get back to what this country used to be, in the right sense of the word industrial country. It is clear that once again I want to touch what is happening in Croatia, the electricity industry at this point. It's one I dare say crime against the people and with such a practice should surely stop. If the damage to the HEP in this year alone was over 100 million euros, it could have saved Croatia's shipbuilding, it could have saved several thousand jobs and without so much for sure this country of shipbuilding jobs will remain in the year ahead of us and will, among other things, "enable" and this strategy. Maybe it was all done to privatize HEP tomorrow, which would be a crime to our people, to the state, but I'm afraid it'll happen sooner or later with the goal of maybe serving an external debt or something else, etc. Page 24, 25 speaks of these large hydropower plants, talks about renewable energy sources, talks about thermal power plants, etc., heat concentration. And I'm afraid that all that was going on there was just because there was a commission on it. We really need new people, as Mr. Cosic said a very strategic leadership, people who will guarantee fair investment because if it is necessary to invest in Croatian energy over 10, 15, maybe 20 billion euros in the next 20 years by 2030, you can imagine what will happen to these investments if some of the models of construction of Croatian highways and similar events are applied. In due course, though, we may be more controlled by someone because of their entry into the European Union on such matters than by ourselves. All in all because of what is happening at HEP for the IDS Club is unacceptable from the title of this Energy Development Strategy to everything that stands here. First of all, the State’s Attorney’s Office needs to be made clear about all of this, and only after that can we deal with such proportions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40414	Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40415	In his special presentation, Mr. Cain, of course, always has the need to compare the Istrian County with the Primorje-Gorski County and in his presentation he made an incorrect claim that Istria was for LNG terminal and Rijeka was against LNG terminals. Unfortunately, Mr. Cain, in all the documents of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, spatial plans are a location for the LNG terminal and we have never been against LNG terminals and the Adria Society, the only thing we asked was that when this project was made, we would make an environmental impact study that did not happen to us and some other things like in some other county.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40416	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Ljubo Jurcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40417	Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Energy development should have its own strategy because energy is one strategic activity. It is a strategic activity because energy is food for machines, just like food is energy for people. Energy is an infrastructure product, which is why it is strategic, because there are no products and services that energy does not enter. As a result, energy cannot be left behind, energy management of clean market legality is the primary objective of each country's government to ensure a sufficient amount of quality energy both for the public and for its economy and industry. That's why energy is most expensive when it's gone. This is why energy can not only be estimated at the cost of energy production at the moment when it has energy, how much its cost of production costs cost but actually the political price of energy is calculated in the way it costs when it is not, what is the loss in the economy when 10, 15, 20 days of gas disappears, when the hour, two hours, three days of electricity, when there is a lack of oil or when we go to reductions, etc., then they count on what costs it is for the economy and actually these costs are the price of energy shortages. And if the cost of energy production is calculated itself, how much it costs to build energy facilities, how much primary energy costs, energy transmissions, etc., then it's direct costs that don't show the right value of energy. And that is why energy cannot be left to the free forces of the market, but in fact it must be organised, managed and controlled by energy, and that is the dual responsibility of the Government. And it is therefore both a structural product and a strategic product and one of the most important products. This results in the objectives of the energy strategy, which is primarily the stability of the energy system. The stability of the energy system, if, for example, we are talking about an electric energy system, then it cannot be a multitude of small energy producers that should certainly exist, but there must be several large energy systems that provide stability. It's a clean technical calculation and this practice shows over the past decades. Security is also important... a safety everywhere, and especially in Croatian terms means that we must have evenly distributed electricity producers throughout Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, now we have a situation that we have more or less organized and we have these producers, but, let's say, Dalmatia doesn't have its electricity manufacturer. And when there's an incident on the cable, on the power line, then Dalmatia has to ask Bosnia and Herzegovina for help to deliver electricity so it doesn't run out of electricity, etc. Furthermore, the objective of each country's strategy and increasing stability and security, all security is to reduce import dependence and Croatia is one of the few European countries with high energy import dependence. Okay, that can be normal in primary energy. We don't have enough gas, oil, coal, etc., but in electricity production it's inadmissible. We are one of the few countries that are dependent on electricity imports, and here we become vulnerable to electricity itself, which is not acceptable. This is what we ourselves can organise enough electricity generation, so our strategy must be aimed at reducing import dependence, above all at importing electricity. The following is an increase in energy efficiency, on the one hand, the efficiency of the use of primary energy, the efficiency coefficient and the cost of transmission or transformation of one type of energy to another, water, oil, gas, etc. into electrical energy. But we also have an increase in energy efficiency that comes from other sectors of socio-economic life. For example, 40% or over 40% of energy is used in construction, and now on the one hand we, in the way we spend energy, the kind of insulation of buildings and the way we have heating and cooling, so we say we spend a lot, we need even bigger energy producers on the one hand, and on the other hand, in the other area of building standards, we don't do too much to actually increase that thermal insulation to maybe save one energy that costs 400, 500 million euros or dollars. So energy efficiency is not only in the production of electricity or any energy, heat energy, but it exists on this other side in other parts of economic and social life where dependence or energy needs can be reduced. What always has to be looked after in this and what works most on the environment is actually energy production. So the energy strategy must be closely connected and an integral part of the environmental conservation strategy, and there is one balance to be found, so that we do not freeze development, that we have enough energy, but also to preserve the environment for future generations. Otherwise, if we were to strictly look at Kyoto's agreement, and so directly, then we should actually stop producing everything and so should electricity, but between that we also have to find a balance. However, when energy is available and we are now open to Europe and the world we must also have a goal, one of the goals that our energy production is competitive, and that means the efficiency of our energy facilities in itself. Because when everything is normal then the market works in that segment, however, when the incident occurs then the state needs to be the one that has secured the system, which will provide enough energy in all situations. Also, with regard to stability or security of energy supply, it is necessary to diversify the energy sources so that we need to use different primary energies from water, gas, coal, renewable sources, nuclear energy. Since no country, including ours, has enough of its own primary energy, we would have to lay down our production of final energy according to the sources that exist in the world, an average. It's lucky we have enough hydropower today, but we're also importing gas, we're also importing coal, we're importing nuclear fuel, we've got it in Krško Central. We and the future construction of our energy system must be structured so that we evenly burden primary energies towards the structure that exists on the world market, because it can occur at some point in time to gas supply congestion, so we will increase the consumption of coal or water. A bad hydrological situation can come up, so we're gonna have to use the gas a little bit more. There may be a lack of gas, coal, etc. And we need to keep that combination of energy in mind, and that's one of the elements of strategic energy management. And of course, nuclear energy, which is safe from various aspects, but building itself both politically and economically, financially and financially, requires a lot of time so that the current examination and introduction of nuclear energy into the 2020-2020 situation is actually completely unnecessary to bring into the document on the Croatian energy strategy. As a topic we can open, but as an element in the strategy that we would consider, I think it is completely unnecessary. Energy is an economic development locomotive. I'll talk about it later. Since we too have the need to build a lot of energy facilities that are quite valuable, quite expensive, this is also a chance for the domestic industry. But she also can't be herself to go build, to spend this 15 billion euros, which is mentioned here, which I would take with a big, big reserve. The current situation in Croatia is, as far as energy is concerned, just before the predecessors talked about it, I would just say again about electricity. It's not true that we're wasting 18 terawatt hours of energy, but we're producing 12. We have capacity somewhere around 4000 megawatts, and we're missing about 30% of the energy. Today, we are missing a thousand megawatts of product capacity. We miss him today, we miss him yesterday, we miss him five years ago. The question arises as to what we have been doing for the past five years, and this has been evident to import on average 30% of electricity each year. And actually this strategy, in that sense, is, in my opinion, an excess document. We've spent time here, we're discussing, we're having a public debate, but it's known 10, 15 years ago that we're running out of 30% of electricity, we're producing a strategy, and we know in advance, we all know that we're missing 30% of the amount of electricity, it's supposed to be somewhere around a thousand megawatts, if the average is one medium size power plant, the thermopower plant, 400, 500 megawatts we should already have in construction, we should have already built two capacities per thousand megawatts. And that's what we're only discussing right now. We're making ourselves this document, an alibi strategy. And it's actually known that this whole thing was supposed to be done already. Also, the average energy building deadline is about 4,5 years, and we know that in 2012, it will come out of the energy system about 300,400 megawatts of electricity production capacity. If we were planning to replace your capacity, we should already have the foundations of these new power plants today, two power plants, or one 300, 400 megawatt power plant to maintain the current import dependence on these 30%. We now have an import dependence of 30%, and our import dependence will certainly increase in 2012, 2013, 2014 by an additional 10 %, 15% of electricity imports. And now we are already entering the thorny area of stability, security of the supply of Croatian citizens, Croatian electricity industry, and we are producing a document, and we know it all together. Why do we know that? We know because the document, the technical document, exists from 2000. He created Croatia's electricity industry, an energy institute where he writes all of this in detail with technical data about the situation in Croatia's energy system and how it will develop for the next 10, 15 years. That document exists. In addition, there is a document every year that we as parliamentary representatives and probably all get a report on energy in Croatia. We get that document and it's normally produced. And he's even more quality in that regard technically than the strategy we're discussing right now. And the question is, what's the strategy for then? Is it a strategy to produce an atmosphere like something's going on, and... What is the situation we have in detail every year in the report by the Ministry of Economy, which is responsible for the energy situation in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's what I'm asking now, because we're asking a question then why the purpose of this strategy. What is the problem in this strategy, the basis of the strategy, is actually energy is the subsystem of the overall economic and social system. And all these forecasts about the movement of gross domestic product, we have in the energy strategy, but we don't have any economic strategy, we don't have a political strategy. We are now introducing a forecast that the Croatian economy will develop for the next 10 years, and we do not have an industrial strategy. We don't have economic development strategies. We don't have technology development strategies. Will our industry continue to develop energy intensively or energy-savingly? This is not determined by the energy strategy, this is determined by the energy and overall development strategy. We want to develop activities that consume energy or develop activities that save energy and that consume less energy. And now without this strategy, the overall economic development strategy, which we have been obliged to produce in order to join the European Union, which we have also made for the purposes of the European Union, but for the purposes of real development of the Croatian economy, industry of activity and structure and energy dependence and industry, we do not have. And here we do it exactly as we introduce it to the little door. In short, these are just some of the notes we have on this strategy, and besides the other draft of this strategy is not fully in line with the following documents. First of all, the strategy for the sustainable development of the Republic of Croatia, the second Energy Act of the Republic of Croatia, which finds that Articles 12 and 14 are an effective use of renewable energy in the interests of the Republic of Croatia, a draft strategy for the national security of the Republic of Croatia which defines energy security as a component of national security. Because of all this and much of the unsaid SDP club, it proposes not to adopt this proposal for a strategy for the energy development of the Republic of Croatia, as it is weaker than the existing strategy adopted in 2002. It is proposed that the conditions of the domestic deep, structural, development and budgetary crisis are seriously addressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40418	Thank you. I'm announcing that at 11 and 10, it's past the time for a ten-minute hearing. Let's move on. And on behalf of the SDSS Club Mr. Representative Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40419	Thank you, Mr. President, gentlemen of the ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to try on behalf of the SDSS club to make a little reference to this proposed risk clearly that, with the risk of me going into a discussion with the profession and with the people who know this problem better. But we are fully aware that the energy development strategy that we have here is a basic document that needs to project our energy future over the next 10 years. And therefore, when I listened to the committee's report, it is acceptable that this debate was conducted in a way that many interested subjects sent their opinions, even some of them participated in the work, in discussions on the board. However, I think that, all together, it would not be enough and that such an important topic and such a strategic document, as fellow predecessors have said, had the need for a broader debate and even a public character where people outside of some institutions could say their opinion and vision of the future, the energy future of the Republic of Croatia. The first thing I'm going to look back on is this document that we've been offered. I'll say that the text of the strategy itself is quite... But I mean, I kind of get the impression that it's been read quite formalistly, that it hasn't gotten any deeper into the analysis of all the necessary elements that are needed to represent ourselves in order to get a complete picture of the future of each segment and make some kind of valid decision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I think that, the truth is well established, the premise is that the uncertain global market in which we are found to be scarce domestic resources, and that we need to create, some conclusion from all of this, is to create a sustainable energy system. I think it's all well done, written, taxingly listed, however, one basic question that is not quite seen from this Strategy how this third premise create a sustainable energy system is actually created in the frameworks and ambiences of these previous two when it's really uncertain for our global market and when the resources we've established are very scarce. Did the Strategy give such a response, resulting in some segments of huge investments such as the construction of hydropower plants, such as the construction of two thermal power plants, the construction of a coal power plant, and the construction of a gas power plant. We think that this is exactly the kind of ambitious plan that has been presented here in the document that is subject to another public debate, and I think we need to discuss it again maturely and professionally and from the point of view of the funds needed to complete these projects, but in any case also from the point of view of the analysis of any future resources available to us as a presumption of such large investments. The Strategy itself suggests that implementation programmes will be adopted and that they will be operationally presented with the way and methodology of how the Strategy will be implemented, and I think that these programmes are much more interesting for discussion than the strategy itself, it would be good if we had the opportunity to see the operational programmes itself and that we could discuss certain and concrete things from these programmes and deplete here. What is particularly interesting about the SDSS Club is the fact that there is a specific category of alternative fuels, which are so-called. Green fuels, they're so-called. Renewable power sources. I will explain why it is our interest and in particular we focus on this segment of the Strategy, although we see that this segment is not particularly processed in the strategy itself, and I think that this topic is quite ghastly touched, we think that it should be much more serious and much more concrete, because we expect it to be some kind of backbone of future energy policy in the strategies. Namely, the notoristic fact is that the Republic of Croatia has potential in biomass, biofuels, wind energy, water potentials, etc., and now the question is what the Strategy has not specifically told us, how it needs all that energy that is actually the original energy of the Republic of Croatia to function. I'm going to try to explain here how she did it, how some countries that are far ahead of us do it, and that have far more far gone in that kind of energy use, so-called. Green energy. This is an example of Germany, which, by European scale, has, in some indicators, gone the farthest in using green sources, its energy is on its way from mainly using phosphorus fuels, increasingly moving towards the use of solar, geothermic energy. In their exploitation of this type of energy, the Germans have come to the fact that they are now using around 20% of their total electricity consumption from these alternative fuels, thus using 20% of these energy sources, they have automatically reduced 20% of fossil fuel consumption, thus approaching Kyoto standards that have reduced the emissions of harmful gases to 20%, which in any case will be the obligation of all countries, especially the Member States of the European Union and the Republic of Croatia. What measures Germany has achieved, it has achieved by introducing, defining three basic measures, which is that the law obliges electricity suppliers to supply exclusively to clean energy suppliers, another measure would have been that the government has set prices for renewables at some guaranteed price of 20 years in advance, which is very important when the real projection of investments for the use of such alternative electricity sources. And the third measure Germany took in this process is that the additional costs of producing such non-fossil fuels were transferred to consumers themselves and mainly companies through a special consumption tax and consumption of kilowatt hours and such types of electricity. Proponents of such a concept in Germany believe that a special effect has been achieved here in a particular social dimension because a number of jobs have been opened through the production of solar pans, windmills, etc. For this very reason, because the Germans saw it as a new deal in these times of crisis, we found it interesting for the debate and it is interesting as some future investment when it would realize future investments in a return environment where such an alternative source of electricity also means investing, opening new jobs and simply providing some new standards in which we cannot expect some big investment to be built. The predecessors said that there was one huge potential of bio mass forest biomass, I came from an area where there was a great potential of some other mass, which is the vine, these are branches after circumcision of orchards, these are huge amounts of straw that are currently not used in an adequate way, and at the same time there are richer countries than us that have a resolved system of solving and using these alternative sources of electricity. Therefore, if I was able to suggest something at this point I will be pleased, in any case the SDSS Club will support such a strategy with the desire to really enable any more public debate on this strategy because we think the document that deserves a lot more media exploitation than it did before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40420	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40421	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and fellow MPs. Three strategic products of each country are energy, food and water. How often I like to say and emphasize what it has just drawn out, so the global policy in terms of strategy, in terms of strategic products, is abounding in Slavonia and Baranja, but this time we are only talking about the proposal for a strategy for the energy development of the Republic of Croatia that runs until about 2020, so for the next 10, 11 years. And then when we look at the content of that proposal, the strategy, what I first thought of, which is Manchester and Birmingham, so the cities of England in the 19th century. Cities with hundreds of chimneys, high chimneys from which smokes, wood or stone coal, i.e. after exploitation, and here in this strategy, although someone here emphasized that both Italy and Germany have a similar scenario, but I would not say similar, but rather as an alternative method of using energys such as coal, stone and coal, so such a scenario is clearly in this strategy and slightly potential for the Republic of Croatia which does not actually have coal. Which doesn't have that energy, and we know that the thermal power plants that now exist and that there were carbon imports mostly from overseas countries and even from far away Brazil. Here my predecessor colleague, Mr Horvat, spoke about exactly what is abundant in our neighborhood of the common Slavonia and Baranja and the use of what can be brought in and in percentages of 10 to 20% increase in electricity production and in general heat energy in the Republic of Croatia. This strategy, which is here in front of us, has not been mentioned or given any great importance to it. But our public needs to know that Croatia exports 2 million cc's of wood mass. Therefore, it is one of the main export products or products of the Republic of Croatia. Of that 2 million cc's of wood 85% is raw material, so logs. 10% is a semi-product like furnier and 5% is a finished product. The thermal power plant in Pechuh, Hungary, which is running and exploiting exactly the wood mass and biomass, such as the colleague said both the granium and the crop after processing in sawmills and wood industries and corn that are actually not presently having any, is being deceived and straw, spending Croatian wood mainly on electricity production. And it's cost-effective and completely sustainable and clean to them. Very interesting. We have in Croatia and civil associations such as the Croatian Development Association, which deals with this problem and which has excellent proposals regarding Croatia's energy development, but I do not know or ask the representatives of the Government whether they have consulted such an association, the Association "For the Development of Croatia", which has both its platform and its energy development strategy of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, as Croatia writes here, I would almost say a little bit like in an essay with beautiful desires, and without specific definitions, it is in such a geographical and geographical position as they say: "God of the day" that it can exploit and use alternative energy sources. If, you see, a program for the exploitation of solar energy, the energy of sunlight that is completely free exists in northern and far away Sweden without talking about Italy, Spain, so here is Austria. Has the Government of the Republic of Croatia ever made any decision to encourage households, hence natural persons and clearly and legally, encouraged financial, therefore monetaryally, as it also encourages agriculture to produce agricultural products to set up solar collectors for the use of solar energy. Can the Government of the Republic of Croatia also encourage with certain credit guarantees this type of building device that would use solar energy? It has been calculated in some scientific and private circles that if this were to be done and encouraged, it would therefore encourage the development of the use of solar energy to save about 350 to 400 megawatts of electricity, which is exactly what the Krško nuclear power plant produces in one year. So, that half of our power plant, let's say ours or not ours don't know half of Slovenian, would actually be compensated by this kind of savings, and also the production of electricity for households, whether small or larger objects like hotels and other facilities. It is clear that savings would arise and if the competition of the Republic of Croatia for typical projects and a typical producer who would have a unique model for the whole of Croatia to then purchase such, I say, a device would be cheaper if it was obtained in a larger amount. You see, two, three days ago, the Maslenica-Holy Rock traffic was cut short because of a strong and overpowered storm. When we travel through our Dalmatia, then we see a couple of those wind-power propellers. Could we not, in this sense, put further development in this strategy right where we can capture this great energy that even interrupts our traffic, does damage to turn it into our advantage in the production of electricity. This "green energy" which my predecessor Mr. Horvat spoke of and that Slavonia with biodiesel, therefore biodiesel that can be produced and stimulated by production, can also be made possible through this green energy. Therefore, additional capacities to the Republic of Croatia with what is already being drawn in Slavonia, which is oil and gas and which provide 40% of domestic needs for these fossil fuels. So, along with that Slavonia can make his great contribution, his great... If it were interest in the Government of the Republic of Croatia to invest in these renewable energy sources and fully clean. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, there is obviously little understanding for such projects. They're just here in a slow term as a possibility, but to be more precise and more detailed about it, there's no such thing as here, unfortunately. I would like Croatia to achieve full energy independence, so that we do not think about how to establish additional routes of supply and supply of fossil fuels, any gas, any oil, whether from the Middle and Middle East, whether from Russia. We saw last winter as he ended that gas transport across Ukraine in that one, let me say one dispute between Ukraine and Russia and this addiction and the Republic of Croatia, but also Western Europe because of this way of gas delivery that way. So, if we were to achieve greater independence, the energy independence of the Republic of Croatia would not depend either on the direction of the supply of fossil fuels from the countries of North Africa, the Middle East or the Middle East there from Kazakhstan, etc. Whether we will increase the independence of the Republic of Croatia by 2020 is now difficult to say. Because here are the previous documents that were brought here, as Mr Jurcic said, we wonder how much energy independence and electricity production in Croatia has been increased since these documents were adopted, I am talking about production. Croatia, they were written in the paper, I don't know if it was a serious inscription or if the data came from confidential or untrustworthy sources, to co-finance or finance the construction of a nuclear power plant in the nuclear power plant Albania? So we were previously in that former state, so the Republic of SR Croatia, financed the construction of blocks at the Kolubara thermal power plants, in the thermal power plant I think Kakanj and Tuzla, and in the Gacko thermal power plant, etc. And since it's all over, I think we know very well. Does not the Government of the Republic of Croatia think in Croatia, do we, in Croatia, that every and every single possibility that is available in the achievement of energy independence throw at the achievements in the Republic of Croatia and with the resources owned by the Republic of Croatia? From the sun and wind in the south or on our coast, to the green energy in Slavonia, Baranja and elsewhere. Therefore, this strategy is a beautiful home office, an essay, a beautiful, beautiful, decorated, makeupd, groomed, but it actually offers nothing special compared to those documents that have been brought before. And I am afraid that this strategy will not have any special effect on the development of the energy system in the Republic of Croatia. So the club of the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja cannot accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40422	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. It's Dragutin Lesar's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40423	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Vice President, Secretary of State. The Green Paper in Croatia has been at the debate for a long time. Publicly available. Many have been involved in this debate. And in terms of future and Croatian security in energy, she had two possible scenarios. The blue scenario envisioned the construction of two natural gas thermopower plants and two coal-based thermal power plants by 2020, a total of 2,000 megawatts. I called that blue script "Two Gasporms and Two RVs". The green scenario envisioned two gas thermopower plants, one nuclear power plant of a thousand, 800 megawatts. I called it "Two Gazprom and One Westing House." The white scenario envisioned one natural gas thermopower plant, one coal thermopower plant and one nuclear power plant. So that would be one Gazprom, one RV, one Westing House. The strategy that came after the debate, said that by 2020 the Republic of Croatia would build coal-powered thermal power plants of 1,000 megawatts, a thermopower plant of 1,000 megawatts. That hydropower plants will increase their capacity by 300 megawatts, including these modest 40 megawatt Lesca, and that by 2012, a decision will be taken to build a nuclear power plant, I guess, somewhere around a thousand. That when I count it would be 3,000, 700 megawatts. From this year or 2010 to 2020 So in the next 10 years, Croatia should build or prepare for the construction of 3 thousand 700 megawatts. I want to remind you that from 1990 to today, Croatia has managed to build one hydropower plant 40 megawatts.../ The speaker doesn't understand. As planned in 2004, 2008. The management of Croatia's electricity industry quotes from the document: "The advantage in the construction of hydroenergy facilities should be given to multi-purpose facilities, objects for which there is a high degree of completeness of the necessary documentation for the decision to build.". Based on this, it was planned to build or start building TE TO Zagreb power 100 megawatts, LTO Zagreb 100 megawatts, TE Sisak 250, TE Osijek 250, Lesce 40, TE Subsid 43, Kršić 7.8, Drenje 39, Kosinj 25, Novo Virje 137 and Ombla 63 megawatts. A thousand 54 megawatts were the construction plan in 2004/2008. So build or prepare for construction. Of what was planned, we were able to complete the hall without a decision on the 40 megawatt hydropower plant. Now the government claims that in the next 10 years we will build the capacity of 3 thousand 700, not 370, not ten times more than 100 times more over the next ten years than in the past 20 years. Very ambitious, very bold and especially because the strategy and those 3,000, 700 megawatts of new capacities are 98% based on imports, import raw materials. The strategy on page 11 also reads the following: "Using a favourable geopolitical position for its profiling as a regional energy hub.". Meanwhile, construction of the South Stream pipeline has bypassed Croatia. I remind you of the last winter and the gas crisis and the day when the Russian President and Prime Minister of Moscow had a meeting with the governments of the countries interested in building a pipeline from Russia to this part of Europe, which our Prime Minister Sanader did not go to and two days before, the director of Gazprom was in Ljubljana and received it from both the President of the State and the Prime Minister and four days after that meeting in Moscow, the Republic of Slovenia signed an agreement with Russia on the South Stream or the South Stream arm that bypasses Croatia and goes to Slovenia. So we used a favourable geopolitical position for the South Stream. For ten years, Italy was interested in laying a submarine cable for electricity distribution and Croatia's electricity industry was unable to agree on the job and then the Italians made the contract with Montenegro. For six years in Croatia, there is a debate on the gas terminal, of which we have no idea, and yet we have made a very good use of the favourable geopolitical position. A few months ago, we sold the gas warehouse around the Hungarians, neighbors. If we invested that money in building a new storage capacity, we might understand that it is the beginning of the implementation of this strategy. But the money day for the warehouse doesn't mean anything because now we still have to buy gas in that warehouse, and it seems to be working at the amount of 570 million that MOL is looking for for gas in that warehouse. It's October now. I ask if the warehouse is around a lot, so whether there are 640 million spatial meters of gas in it as much as its capacity. And I warn that if it is a lot, it is only 15% of the annual needs or consumption of gas in Croatia, which is about 4 billion spatial meters. All government moves back a few years when it comes to energy were and are the opposite of what the strategy says because instead of the development of gas storage capacity we bought the existing gas-free and now we should just buy a complete capacity-building strategy in electricity production is based on imports and the position and this geopolitical significance of which we have when it comes to the transfer of energy from the East to Western Europe we did not take advantage of. Because of this preambitiousness described in the strategy but also the experience we have so far, I can hardly believe that what is written will be a strategy that will be implemented. This is actually a list of nice wishes because I did not find a single sentence of how and what money will be realised what is planned for Croatia to invest by 2020. So, I accept a list of good wishes but not a strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40424	Thank you very much. It's MP Mirela Holly's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40425	Thank you. Dear Vice President. At the very beginning of the presentation on the proposal for a strategy for the energy development of the Republic of Croatia, I would like to say that I will not support the adoption of this strategic document. There's a whole series of reasons for that. The first and main reason is that this strategy is not sustainable and does not respect environmental protection requirements and does not respond to key postulates of energy security. Realisation of this document would unfortunately increase significantly rather than reduce Croatia's dependence on imported non-renewable fossil energies, which is the weak belly of the current energy sector of Croatia. The most important measures to strengthen energy security are to recall, reducing dependence on fossil fuels and only one source of imported energy, increasing supplier numbers, exploiting domestic fossil energy sources or renewable energy sources, and reducing total energy requirements by introducing different austerity and efficient energy consumption measures. The proposal for a strategic document we are discussing today unfortunately does not satisfy most of the necessary energy security measures. It is a pity that in strategic considerations, the country's economic future as a positive example does not serve examples like that of Iceland. In fact, Iceland plans to become energy independent by 2050 using 100% renewable energy sources. Unfortunately, Croatia is not so ambitious, and this is what we see from this proposal for an energy strategy. I believe that this proposal for a strategy is based on even a few very questionable thesis. First, the main reason for the adoption of this strategic document is to meet the requirements for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, i.e. respect for the provisions of the Kyoto Protocol. I remind you that we have an energy strategy that was adopted in 2002 and is valid until 2012, which is not realised at all but, according to the proposal, is inappropriate precisely because of the failure to comply with Kyoto protocol requirements. But this proposal for a strategy rather than predicting a reduction in Croatia's dependence on fossil fuels, it does exactly the opposite, and also accounts for an increase in production and consumption, in most cases precisely from fossil fuels. But the facts speak contrary to the author’s claim, as the total energy consumption in Croatia has not been growing for several years. For example, in 2006, total energy consumption in Croatia was reduced by 0.3%, and energy intensity or energy consumption per unit of GDP was reduced by 4.8%, but is still significantly higher in European countries, and this speaks of very low energy efficiency in Croatia. In fact, compared to the average energy intensity in the European Union of 27, energy intensity was higher by 11.8%. Energy intensity i.e. Energy consumption per GDP unit in Croatia is even twice as high as in the members of the European Union. Croatia is very late because of this in energy efficiency for members of the European Union. So energy consumption has fallen over the past few economically positive years, and now we are facing a decline in economic activity which will certainly lead to an additional reduction in energy demand. It is unusual that when calculating Croatia's energy needs, the proposal does not even consider a constant depopulation of Croatia, which also implies a fall in energy demand. In other words, this proposed strategy potentiates energy consumption as it envisions an annual constant increase in energy consumption of 2.7%. I would like to remind you that the official policy of the European Union by 2020 is to reduce the total energy consumption by 9%, not an increase in consumption, so I am asking why and now we are not following the instructions from the European Union. The question is therefore raised and whether the figures in this strategy are too high and why they are. It should be said that the whole strategy relies on several megaprojects both in the electricity sector and in terms of supplying primary power plants and these are large thermal power plants, nuclear power plant, LNG terminal, Varosfold-Slobodnica gas pipeline, Adriatic-Ionian pipeline, Adria, PEOP. In addition to the primary function, medical projects are also treated as an engine of national-economic growth. In addition to GDP growth, however, megaprojects also bring many risks, such as major negative environmental impacts and human and animal health, because they are major investments without security of cost-effectiveness of such projects, forsaking fossil fuels of coal, gas, oil and non-renewable energy sources such as uranium ore, also pose a major risk of global crisis of each energy energy. In addition, neglecting the diversification of particularly small or small and local energy projects, the entry of the multinational sector into the most important energy projects and the dependence on transnational corporate interests, abandoning the fundamental elements of long-term energy security are only some of the weaknesses of a strategy almost exclusively relying on megaprojects. I also want to look back at the serious weakness of the nuclear scenario. In fact, we are well aware that nuclear energy in terms of environmental protection and human and animal health can be very destructive. Havary nukes cause immeasurable damage to the environment, permanent pollution of nature and a major fatal hazard to human and animal health. In addition, there is absolutely no safe way of dealing with radioactive waste. Nuclear energy is an unrenewable source of energy and cannot be counted in the so-called alternative energy sources. It is a very expensive project that involves long-term planning, and existing energy problems need to be solved today, not in 20 years. As things stand now, if Croatia decides on a nuclear power plant, its power will be about 1000 megawatts and that is about a third higher than Krško's nuclear power plant, and the estimated value of the investment is about 4 billion euros. Nuclear energy in the Republic of Croatia, according to energy experts, is questionable for technical and economic reasons. Due to a relatively small electricity system, it is not optimal to build power plants of the most economically acceptable size. Experience from developed countries has shown that the economic viability of the nuclear power plant depends on the number of power plants to be built in the system. For the national economy, it is worth entering a nuclear programme only when the installation of about 10,000 megawatts is predicted, so several times more than the current Croatian power system. It means planning and investing like we're going to build a palace, and in the end we're going to build a cabin. In addition, nuclear energy opens a relatively small number of well-paid jobs, and it is extremely capital intensive. Given that several nuclear power plants are currently being built in the world, especially in China and India, a crisis in the supply of uranium miners as energy is possible in 20 years. The State should insist that the investor must necessarily provide for the financing of the entire life cycle of the power plant, which would make such a power plant in the current conditions invaluable. At the end of the debate, I ask you a question. Can we do something different? I believe that, without the domination of megalomanic projects, we can be more realistic about the growth of the energy demand, with more energy savings and with increased energy efficiency, by giving more attention to renewable energy sources and smaller local regional projects, by decentralisation of the energy sector and by fostering energy independence of the region, by investing and encouraging creative solutions aimed at using new renewable and clean energy sources. It should be noted that there is no clean coal technology, because carbon capture and storage is only in the experimental phase, and this technology would significantly increase the price of coal-derived electricity, which is the main advantage of that energy. The nuclear option is economically and environmentally unacceptable for Croatia, as I have already said, because we invest as if we're going to build a palace, and in the end we build a cabin and I'm asking if we're that rich at all. And for this reason, I believe that thinking energy policy involves intensive diversification of energy sources and a significant immediate dependence on fossil fuels. And that's certainly not the case with this strategy. In order to avoid dependence on one energy because of the signs of sustainability and long-term sustainability, the stability of energy policy is necessary in particular to develop renewable energy sources that are only a peripheral aspect of this strategy. And in the end, I would just remind myself that the programme of work of this government and the coalition agreement which is actually a template for this government's work programme was said to be a nuclear moratorium which refutes this strategy. So I'm asking if something happened in the government and what happened to HSS as a very sharp opponent of nuclear energy has accepted and will I assume support this strategy?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40426	Thank you very much. We have two replicas for this debate. First, a colleague called Dragutin Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40427	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Well, my colleague Mirela mentioned that it was just a renewable energy source, that it was the basis for ensuring sufficient amounts of energy. However, myrella colleagues are just from all these strategic documents that we have here we see that we are just going on a minorization of the use of these renewables. It is also in this finding that this strategy will define the dynamics of promoting the construction of renewable energy sources in individual four-year periods. All of this shows that this strategy is also an idea in which both this debate and the adoptions that will follow next suggest that something is being done, related to the strategy. However, all those other elements that say that this strategy should also be directed towards these renewable energy sources, they are neither defined here nor shown that they, as such, will need and want to be realized. Because surely, if we have found that the only one, these renewable energy sources that are the only ones, the only ones that allow energy independence, then we should also openly say that this issue of climate change resolution with these renewable energy sources will also be the best quality. Because here and yesterday we must have heard the question and melting of ice on the North Pole where, over 10 or 20 years, we are expected to create one new sea. All this is certain through such energy and energy efficiency of other energy sources that they should lead to certain problems. And that is why I believe that this strategy does not make a positive move. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40428	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to my colleague Holly who has a reply to the replica, I would ask you all to stick to the time. She's an attorney, Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40429	Thank you. Well, my colleague, you're absolutely right. I would like to mention here that Hrvoje Fire a few years ago developed a strategy, or a document on the potentials of renewable energy resources by 2020, and that these forecasts are in principle much greater and more ambitious than we have in this strategy. So this strategy provides for the introduction of some 80 megawatts of renewable energy sources, and Hrvoje Pozhar predicts that Croatia's 240 megawatt potentials are in this sense. And the question arises why we didn't go to the maximum of those potentials.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40430	Second replica, representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40431	I thank the esteemed vice president. Here's a distinguished colleague, she said, among other things, that this is an energy waste strategy, not energy efficiency. I have to fix it a little bit because one of the most important energy efficiency measures that has passed past all and past the attention of the Croatian public, and the most important energy energy energy is so-called. contracts with privileged consumers, which charge double the electricity delivered, i.e. bills for spent kilowatt hours and for the transmission of electricity. In this way, double VAT is paid, and in this way many units of local self-government instead of actually implementing energy efficiency measures by shutting down public lighting, given that these accounts are almost 100% higher compared to last year when there were no such contracts for privileged energy. It is likely that these funds also pay the huge dubiosis of the Croatian electricity industry, not to mention, in those imports of electricity that is beyond reason, past all and beyond the common sense of economic logic. So this really is not at this point any development strategy, energy development of the Republic of Croatia, but this is really as someone said the strategy for further poverty of Croatia and the state budget, but also for all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40432	Replication response, MP Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40433	Thank you. Dear colleague, I did not mention in my debate any different dubiosis in terms of the business of our Croatian electricity industry. I believe that some other colleagues will say something about it in their discussions. But the fact that it means the problem with this energy waste may arise precisely from those problems that you mentioned, which should be given great attention and attention in any case.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40434	The letter was requested on behalf of the applicant by State Secretary Tamara Obradović Mazal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40435	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that there are more applicants for the debate, and since some of the more difficult ones so far have gotten through, which I would like in some ways to focus on in the part that the strategy already covers, or some of the more difficult ones to at least try to correct. I draw attention to the fact that we are very concerned with renewable energy sources in the strategy. That the goal is to reach the total share level from 20% to 2020. It means following that trend and with our economic capacity, following the European Union's trend to raise the level at which the European Union also has a share of renewables from 20% to 2020. They are recognized as our domestic energy source, they can help not in 100 percent amount and I guess we all know that we are all aware that renewable energy sources cannot take over 100 percent capacity to meet all our needs. So they can help overcome part of energy dependence, participate in its reduction but cannot assume an absolute 100% capacity. Is there any alternative? Of course, we can be in the dark and we can warm ourselves up with the warmth of our own bodies, but we must admit that apart from renewable energy sources, we must also reach out for more conventional energy-using methods. In fact, it has been said that Croatia does not regulate the use of renewable energy sources, that it does not encourage producers, that it does not encourage households, and in this segment hopefully it will be transferred, we have at least five acts that regulate renewable energy sources and which define further stimulating electricity production precisely from renewable energy sources, we have a concrete incentive programme to encourage households themselves through guaranteed purchase of electricity equal to eight times the conventional source of electricity, or, for example, eight times more than the price of electricity generated from hydro potential, I would correct one indication or a statement that Croatia does not encourage and does not have an investment programme in renewable energy sources. When we're still on the subject, I'd just like to mention that we have at least 250 ongoing requirements for building objects that will produce electricity from wind potential. Speaking of wind potential, someone mentioned Dalmatin, or a wind power plant that stops the bridge because of the storm and the wind power plant does not use its capacity. One small technical correction, when the storm is in its heat, then from the wind power plants no potential, the wind has to be optimal, only when the storm is not talking about the possibility of using the wind power plant at all, in a way accuracy does not make it possible for our public to put those two concepts in context. I would also like to point out that in the 2002 Strategy itself, which has been adopted, I think it is fair to say that the document adopted by a government is a positive fact that the Government simply continues the positive traits mentioned in the previous strategy and this Strategy continues to spread to earlier strategies that may not have been presented at that time in the strategy, so this is simply a step in the circumstances in which we are now, a step towards efficiency, a step that takes into account the NLG step that needs to be made taking into account the signed Kyoto Protocol and Emissions. So it simply upgrades what was done in 2002 without any desire to enter the controversy. Just two more things, South Stream. Representative Lesar said that we lost the South Stream, not true, negotiations for the South Stream are still under way, Slovenia signed an agreement on finding a way to come across Slovenia, and as far as Italy and the submarine cable are concerned I would also correct it, we hosted a high guest from Italy last week, we were just talking about a submarine cable between Italy and Croatia, our talks are very intense on this issue and it is incorrect that we gave up on the submarine cable with Italy, the talks are still open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40436	Two corrections to an incorrect quote. Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40437	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So I'm correcting the quote, or rather, I'd like to more specifically establish the state secretary's quote and it's related to the state's incentive to use renewable energy sources. It is true that the state encourages a renewable energy source that is true, but whether encouraging the electricity producer from the solar energy through... took 58 permits and took it 5 years. If a colleague is a 58-year-old license and a five-year procedure, then I don't think some things are right and some things in relation don't seem right. Therefore, I am correcting an incorrect quote which is that the state encourages, encourages but in a way that is ineffective to the final users.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40438	Second correction by MP Mirela Holy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40439	I would like to correct some of the allegations relating to the continuation or upgrade of the previous strategy by this set, which I would like to mention is not true because the previous strategy respected the moratorium on the construction of nuclear power plants by 2015 in accordance with the programme of the spatial development of the Republic of Croatia and this strategy is ignored because over 3 years it is moving into the process to launch nuclear power plant documentation and there can be no extension and upgrade of any strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40440	Thank you very much. We continue the debate, I give the word to Agent Daniel Srb.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40441	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We are talking today about the strategy for the energy development of the Republic of Croatia, but it has already been said here that there has been no particularly debated here in this House on the implementation and state of implementation of the strategy adopted in 2002. However, the question arises as to why this is so, whether we are satisfied with the previous implementation of the previous strategy, which was done, why it came to the situation that construction is needed over the next 10 years, as it has been said, 100 times more capacity than was built in the previous 20, so we are coming into an obviously worrying situation when it comes to the supply of particularly electricity in Croatia. Let me bring out one of my facilities, we are today discussing this Strategy without practically even this Strategy being presented by an energy expert. Energy experts in Croatia are practically on the sidelines, they can't affect key decisions, we need to be aware that HEP and INA are companies that, one of whom has been state-owned and no longer, one of them is, companies that have the greatest impact on the development of the energy sector in Croatia, but no one who is in charge of energy in the government can, I don't mean the Minister, practically require the resolution of the administration because of the lack of implementation of the Energy Development Strategy. This is what led the entire energy sector to a situation where today, so the government didn't have the will to deal with this problem, other problems were a priority, and that's why we came into this situation. Of course, in the preparation of all documents, and these strategies were also a major influence for both HEP and INE. Of course, this strategy aims to ensure quality, security, availability and sufficient energy, as indicated, but it must be competitive. So we must have secure energy sources, but they must be competitive because the price of energy offered practically in the economy has a significant impact on the competitiveness of our economy. We've had more consumption in recent years, greater energy consumption growth than gross social product growth, and that's a lot of words here, that's one worrying data. And based on this data, there are also certain forecasts of consumption. We have an extremely high consumption of energy in households, and also too often social policy has been done through energy prices, which actually has a disastrous impact on the entire energy sector because it is then practically moving away from market business, bringing it into a situation to become uneconomic, to accumulate losses and the whole sector is not developing. It's something extremely dangerous and that needs to be done absolutely in the future. However, the strategy states that this may also be an export-oriented activity. It's possible, but in practice, unfortunately not. We have imports of electricity, we have no imports and equipment even though we have great Croatian companies that have dealt with huge energy. I believe that at the level of our experts, at the technical level we can cover all Croatia's needs, but it is also important that the policy is engaged in order to make up for the needs of electricity, above all, Croatia in the coming years. The issue of geopolitical position and transit potential, we have indeed an excellent geopolitical position, but there is little use of transit potential, and there is a need for greater engagement of both the Government and politics, above all, in order for key energy routes to really be closed through Croatia because this can have an important impact on economic development on the one hand, on the other hand and on Croatia's strategic position in this respect and the future. These are for the Croatian state areas of exceptional importance and must be paid special attention to them. As for certain segments, let's first of all encourage cogeneration. It is listed here as one of the activities that will increase energy efficiency on the one hand, on the other hand would get more energy sources, but what does this mean in particular? We have an extremely large state-owned sector where the application of these technologies is profitable, where practically nothing happens because they deal with other problems of the institution. So I'm talking about large industrial capacities still in state ownership on one side, but there are hospitals, a health care sector that is extremely suitable for the use of cogeneration, and practically 12, 13 years since the analysis of the entire sector, not one plant has occurred even though there are investors interested in this area. In addition, the issue of centralized thermal systems that have given particular attention to certain issues and previous studies, but today we are in a situation where new technological solutions have a question of justification, for example, of partial climateisation of such objects when more economics can be fully achieved. Therefore, it can be achieved in the end line less costs for citizens, but in practice this does not happen. In practice, whoever wants to set up air conditioning by skyscrapers, and at the same time we have a connection to the central heating city system, and it is simply uneconomically expensive from the point of view of the citizens of the users and from the point of view of the state as a whole. In this respect, certain measures should be taken to target the development of the entire heating system. Furthermore, it envisions a strategy that the government will create a condition for the modernisation of refineries. I don't think it's going to be possible anymore, unfortunately, even though it's necessary because it's a question of influence now on the owners of the refinery so little that it's going to be extremely hard to go. The question is both geothermal sources and its use. I am deeply aware that the use of geothermal sources will do nothing revolutionary in Croatia, they are relatively small, but should be used. Our practice has been concrete so far in it that practically the state is building buildings on geothermal springs, not using geothermal sources as a source of energy but using gas as primary energy, and because INA is the owner of concessions, for example, and makes more money on gas than on the use of our geothermal sources, and here we are focused on energy imports instead of using our own sources. So, one tragic situation that has to be prevented. As for solar power plants, it exists at certain locations of foreign investors' interests. However, it happens that no spatial plans are in place, that on the one hand it is not the County's spatial plan to build such a power plant, and then because of political relations, this is deliberately stalled, so we all have undeveloped municipalities, great unemployment, and on the other hand, because of political relations, and we have no use of such energy sources for which there are specific interested investors. Finally, as regards the implementation of the whole strategy, I have to say, I was in a very large dilemma assessing whether to support such a strategy because there are a lot of objections to it that we have had to hear here today, but I appreciate, however, that the strategy must be implemented, the implementation documents relating to this strategy must indeed be adopted. I will support this strategy and because I want it to start as soon as possible, aware of all the shortcomings and the fact that it represents, to a large extent, a list of good wishes, but I want it to actually be followed by certain implementing rules, but also that it is ultimately discussing what has been done under this strategy and whether we as a state have moved away and whether we are going to get into a situation to provide the necessary sources primarily of electricity for the next 10 years. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40442	We first have one correction to the incorrect assumption. A colleague, Vladimir Ivković.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40443	A colleague of Serbs mentioned that consumers lying on geothermal waters use gas because of INA's interests. They're not using it because of INA's interest, but because of the fact that gas is cheaper today, it's just using geothermal waters. And that's the reality of the price of gas. And when you compare the prices of those two energies, then you know that what you have in nature is more expensive today than what you have to buy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40444	Now they're eating replicas. First replica, Representative Zoran Vinkovi.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40445	Thank you. You said that the competitiveness of electricity affects the competitiveness of the economy and you were probably thinking about the price of electricity that is currently one of the most expensive in Europe that pays the economy of any country. Considering exactly that both the economy and so on. Preferred consumers pay twice the price of electricity, one for spent kilowatts or megawatt hours, and the other for transmission of electricity. In this way they also double the VAT into the state budget. I'm probably saying that one way the government did, and the HEP administration also wanted to settle everything that came from the huge dubiouss that have been made over the past few years. I do not want this debate to be seen as a blow to HEP, but rather to consolidate the situation in HEP through such discussions. And one of the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which she wanted to resolve the situation in HEP, is certainly not the appointment of the chairman of the Supervisory Board for the Director General of the Croatian Electrical Economy, is it exactly what he has monitored and implemented and appointed all that has been happening in Croatia's electricity industry over the past few years.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40446	Replication reply by representative Daniel Srb.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40447	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Vinkovic, developed Western European countries that want to develop a particular industrial and economic sector, are looking for ways and opportunities to meet and make their economic operators more competitive through the price of energy. In this respect, special electricity prices are also provided which are more suitable for them. But unfortunately, that's not the case. For years, we have had a different policy from the former system where economic operators actually pay a higher price for electricity, which is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40448	Second replica, distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40449	Thank you very much. You said that it was more important than a strategy, a plan to implement the activities defined by the strategy, and I fully agree with you. But now my question. Would it be correct to discuss this strategy, if we had had the opportunity to discuss the implementation of an existing strategy plan, which is also the government's legal obligation and what possibility did the government not give us? Is the reason to create a debate in this strategy the impression that something is being done in energy while at the same time concealing the fact that almost nothing in energy has been done in the past five years, other than the gas crisis we had at the beginning of this year and the possible new gas crisis that Europe is warning us about in the time ahead of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40450	Replica response, Agent Daniel Srb.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40451	Thank you very much. ... to analyse the effects of the existing energy development strategy, that it must indeed come here and be the subject of the debate of the same conditions for the adoption of a new one. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] However, we need to seriously discuss the effects of the previous one so that we can bring the next one, which will have practical meaning for what we all expect together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40452	We're continuing the debate. The word has an esteemed representative, Jerko Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40453	Madam Vice President, thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. They taught us at least so that energy is indestructible, so there shouldn't be a problem with energy we just need to know how to reach and take over. And it seems to me that in fact, all the debate should be conducted. And by the order of priorities he could put, then he says that the most important thing is that we have electricity, and then another thing that could be that we're in the property of that power completely independent of the maximum possible. But first we have it. And in that sense, I understand the promoter, no matter how high-quality the proposal is or not like when someone evaluates it. His concern is to secure his strategy with what we need, because one day if it is not what this strategy provides, it will be their fault, and someone else who has had objections to the strategy. In that sense, I fully understand the problems that are being put in place. But the question arises, however, how to provide sufficient quantities, how to secure that quantity in the cheapest way and how to ensure these quantities is fully in our hands. I had recently participated in a debate, or asked questions related to the Commission's assessment of Croatia's accession to the European Union, as it progressed. One of the topics that has not been completed was chapter 27 of environmental protection, and certainly when we talk about ensuring the necessary amount of energy, let's also talk about environmental impact. Because there's not a single energy we're getting, not one energy we're getting without it having a kind of environmental impact. It's just a question of making that environmental impact as small as possible. I certainly advocate that the impact on the environment be as small as possible, that we have a better environment in which we live and try to find the best solutions in this sense. But my finding a solution is limited to a question of common sense, not a question of profession. Because that's why I'm not competent. Because I think a lot of things that we say here in the House not only on this topic, but on the other topic, there are different frames and different connotations than one that represents an expert serious debate. But I suppose, as I had the opportunity to hear at one committee meeting about the development of the strategy, a renominated set of people participated, which does not mean that they did the best they did, but in some way their own conviction did the best that they thought that although all the waist was brought again and gladly commented with the character of the lobby or certain business interests to force one type of energy on the load of another energy. In the world, this happens often, we are aware, and even in pharmacology and medicine, many believe that certain diseases of some animal, pig, bird flu are invented to sell some drugs, etc. And we're actually losing confidence in what the profession says or at least by presenting it to the media, we're starting to don't believe in what someone did with good intentions or bad intentions. And so this strategy is burdened with such doubts, doubts, but here's what I'm trying to figure out in the most positive way. In any case, I think that what the various types of green associations agree specifically on in terms of environmental protection have its own value, that it has its own meaning, may even be a certain overemphasis of this problem warns that it would not be forgotten but perhaps some extreme demand but without providing an alternative are also not solutions because then everyone has the right to say something and which is responsible for what it stands for. We have energy at our disposal anyway. To reach it is at what cost. So reasonable is this observation regarding the use of domestic energy even though it is more expensive than the other because it also attacks if it is used more expensive prices than it is available, but that alternative sources certainly have which Croatia has more than others and should work on and achieve what I think is fixed in the strategy to reach 20% possible which would certainly give not only safety but also one complete independence. Because of the joke he is working, not because of some seriousness, that I would use the energy of Dragan's leg Kovacevic, who has been shaking his foot all the time here as some kind of dynamo, and there would be some tiny energy obtained especially from what he does with both legs not only once with one, another with the other, but even with both. But well, just like this because of some... in this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But anyway, we know when we're riding a bike that we're creating some kind of energy that we're also doing. ... I just wanted to say that the question of these alternative sources is a very interesting topic that should be something more, which should be done as much as possible, so I'd read you a little short text column of my published five years ago on the same subject, actually it's about finding a solution to energy problems. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Therefore, in order to replace today's oil consumption in energy terms with some alternative energy sources, it would require an entire coast from Norway to the south of Spain to cover the windmills with a width of 10 km in order to compensate... At least these are the accounts of the head of science and the chief environmental scientist of England. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I had that material in my hands. It doesn't seem like much of a sensation of a solution to me either, but one of them certainly does if there were no other alternatives. Nuclear energy causes major controversy but with all this 16.9% of the total electricity in the world is obtained exactly that way according to the same indicators. However, the percentage of the risk with it is much higher, which we must be aware of. So scientists are constantly trying to come up with new safe solutions that would benefit without causing negative consequences for the human environment. Many have long been in use as far as electricity production is concerned, but they are not suitable for all needs. Large successes are increasingly achieved in using the constantly available energy of the sun but the economics of the solutions achieved is still very questionable, which does not mean that by the year it will not be much more rational. Even water is manifested as a possible energy, so car parking can be even more difficult but at least with cleaner air. Politicians reportedly think only five years in advance, or as long as it can take a particular cycle of struggle for power and its behaviour. The managers have thought analytically for up to twenty years in advance of seeing their future through the success of the company they lead. Scientists think not of specific time but of the general future as the time to come and to face. "Ordinary people" can only take care of what is today because we are already facing a general energy crisis and in the future it can only be worse. So until we solve the necessary new sources of energy we can and must reduce consumption today. It's my thesis I'd like to put on the table anyway, because it reduces the need for new energy. Energy is easy to consume, harder to pay and harder to secure. To save unnecessary and irresponsible electricity from households and households spend almost 60% of the world's energy and the business premises of trafo stations per city would be less and less rare. If we use cars less thoughtlessly, the air would be cleaner and the oil would last longer for what is necessary. The case of Rome does not speak of how good it is for us in the illustration of them, but of waiting for us in Europe if we do not learn from it in time, because in Rome it is terrible, in Milan, disastrously all the way to Bergham. Perhaps the air of hope for a better tomorrow offers British Petrol whom we know why and what it's called, who started to interpret his brand BP with beyond the petroleum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40454	Thank you very much. We have a replica of President Mirel Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40455	Dear colleague Roshin, I would like in some way to replicate your exposure by reminding you that today we have gone one step further from the concept of sustainable development and that today, at the level of the United Nations, we are talking about the concept of "Green New Deal". "Green New Deal" implies that we give up the concept of economic growth and that we retain the idea of zero growth because economic experts and not just environmentalists recognized it means that the situation in which we use our resources in the present way is such that it is unsustainable and therefore we have to change the way of thinking, there's a paradigm, and that's exactly the Green new deal, which is largely relying on the promotion of renewable energy sources, and that's why America is headed by Barack Obama, so in that sense I think there should be seen some other potentials just from those economic ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40456	The answer to the replica is representative Jerko Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40457	I also agree on a new deal that would be good if it could certainly be achieved, the thoughts on this are very large in particular regarding the debate on climate change. It's undeniable. I took part recently in such a gathering in Washington, D.C., on the subject where it was discussed. But what it represents is... In all of this, the economy is, however, because what is possible, which is acceptable, is still the key to everything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about anything, we talk about economic frameworks that we can survive. So what I advocate is that the economy is not abandoned, but that the question of sustainable development, or the circumstances in which this economy will be able to live. Without each other, it's not that easy to see. All his life is a compromise, not only in his segment, but in one piece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40458	We're continuing the debate. It's Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40459	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Madam Secretary of State with an associate. When we talk about an energy strategy, it is important to say at the outset that we need to know what the goals we are setting before us are. The goal is absolutely to have enough quality energy for the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens, i.e. the Croatian population. Energy is, of course, the most expensive when we don't have it. We are all witnessing this year what happened at the beginning of the year when some estimates of direct damage in the Croatian economy amounted to approximately 400m euros, 1% of GDP almost, caused by lack of energy, was not enough gas and was not enough because the current government did not allow and did not prepare for the scenario that occurred at the beginning of the year. The second thing is, of course, the stability of the entire system and the stability of the energy supply, so we have to have a few or as many producers and energy suppliers. The third security of energy supply is also linked to suppliers and also to ecology. The reduction of course, the strategy must also include reducing energy dependence on other countries or individual suppliers and, of course, increasing energy efficiency. What does this strategy offer? Does it offer Croatia's energy independence? I don't think so. The strategy is to have dependence on fossil fuels and on the other hand that we will have and the strategy's proposal opens up the possibility of building a nuclear power plant, several coal power plants. And who are the suppliers of these power plants, these raw materials that are needed for these power plants to work? The suppliers for nuclear power plants are in the largest, or 80%, meaning the raw material of enriched uranium comes from only three countries, meaning Russia, France and America. And now what kind of independence does this strategy offer us? Not at all. So we will be very dependent on just a few countries of great power that will then be able to affect our energy security and policy. On the other hand, I believe that this strategy is outdated, outdated in one part which, again I said, relies on more or less fossil fuels, and does not develop, as the European Union does, renewable energy sources. Although the strategy mentions how much the share of renewable energy sources in the strategy is included in these energy sources, which is not the standard in Europe, or in the policies of the European Union. Someone said it was a list of beautiful desires that were questionable whether it would come true. I would remind you that we, we already have one strategy in place that was defined during the 2002-2012 year that didn't come true and that was partly the cause of all these problems that we had related to energy at the beginning of this year. No power plants were created that were drawn up by this strategy. The current government and past government have not done what was planned in the last five years and therefore Croatia is now in a very difficult situation. And not only that, but we went one step further, someone mentioned it, we went to buy a gas warehouse around a private company instead of investing in a new gas storage facility and thus protecting Croatian citizens who may be and this year may be threatened by gas shortages and possibly, regardless of the fact that the winter has not even started yet, or the colder weather has only appeared in Croatia these days, but there may be a crisis again, and again we can have gas shortages and on this side damage to the economy and citizens who will not be protected. And instead of going to build a new warehouse, we went to buy a gas warehouse from a private company that is now owned by foreigners, foreign investors and thus did not do what the government's basic task and those who decide in this country is to protect Croatian citizens. The strategy document is planned and projected on the assumption that energy consumption will increase by up to almost 50% in the next decade or 12.13 years, which is based on GDP growth of 5%. We are all witnessing the exact opposite of this year, the decline in GDP, and probably next year will be either slow growth, but certainly not nearly 5%. The next year may be around zero, next year there may be some recovery, but it's not realistically planned. Someone mentioned before me and the number of people that are getting smaller and smaller in Croatia every year, so there will be less need for energy. And when we add that we need to work with citizens and work on the efficiency of energy consumption, it's certainly not going to be a real situation. And that is why one conclusion that is the only logical to me in this strategy, what this strategy wants to achieve, is to introduce a small door means some frameworks for large projects that domestically or not domestically, perhaps some other design houses, which may never be realized. A nuclear power plant may never be built in Croatia, but it will certainly be based on this strategy for the next few years on which projects for the plant will be built, and on which certain lobbies will surely make big profits and big jobs. The same thing is about other things that are tied up. So space opens up for big projects that may never even be realized. And why I think that and why I'm personally opposed to building a nuclear power plant, which is why I don't think that a nuclear power plant, or a nuclear power plant, is even real, is going to happen in Croatia. With the construction of a nuclear plant, it's almost impossible to plan, at this point mentioning 3.4 billion euros in building costs, but I think it's unrealistic. I think it is possible to say that at the moment of the start of the construction of the nuke it is impossible to say how much construction costs will be and how much costs will be related to the whole project at all. Some estimates sometimes make up to up to 10 billion euros. On the other hand, the building capacity in the world is already busy, i.e. it is not possible to arrange a job for the next 20, 30 years. There are studies in the world that say that nuclear energy is not competitive, that on this side of the nukes cannot offer what we are trying to serve, which is that electricity will be cheaper, at a stable price and at a safe delivery. I'm talking about a study that Massachusettes Institute of Technology in 2003 and which is one of the most relevant documents we can call on when we talk about nukes. And, of course, in the end, I believe that the start of building a nuclear power plant is a direct blow to the standard of Croatian citizens, because most of the time, when the nuclear funds are financed, there is an increase in the price of electricity, and that is where these projects begin to finance them. By funding, by increasing electricity comes naturally to impact the standard, there is a blow to our economy's competitiveness and I believe that this solution is definitely not good. And in the end, I won't support this strategy for these reasons I said in my debate. And I think so. What? ... Yeah, I can't support that debate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I can see that didn't surprise you, because you probably can't either. But if you don't just raise your hands, but read the strategy a little more carefully, you won't be able to support Mr. Djakic as well. I know that would require at least an hour, an hour and a half more careful reading, but here, try and see. I will not support the strategy, and I do not think that we should support the other clubs of MPs, because it does not guarantee what is only important energy security and independence of the Republic of Croatia and its citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40460	We have one correction to an incorrect quote and one replica. Representative Vladimir Ivković, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40461	Thank you, Vice President. In his opening presentation, counterpart Maras blamed the current government for gas shortages last season. It is generally known that the gas was not because Russia had suspended the delivery of Ukraine. I think he is also aware that this broad interpretation of the government's responsibility is solely for political purposes. So the gas was not because Russia suspended the delivery of Ukraine and transport through Ukraine, and the current government provided replacement gas and not at the usual high prices, but at regular prices and provided all protected customers in the Republic of Croatia. So the government did everything possible under the circumstances.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40462	Thank you very much. And we have a line, Agent Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40463	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In fact, I would like to replicate and in some ways troublesome the part that my colleague Maras was talking about building a nuclear power plant in the Republic of Croatia. I will say about a specific case where the municipality of Erdut arrived a few years ago in the direction of Croatia's electricity industry, which requires the municipality of Erdut to make various research papers of geophysical, geomechanical, hydrological, hydrological, etc., etc., that according to the new spatial plan means no change in purpose. It is clear that such a request by HEP, Croatia's electricity industry, has caused a heated reaction in the population. And today it is debated on the ground and I also need to say it as a parliamentary representative in some way both at this session and at this debate on energy strategy. In fact, it is an area that is absolutely one of the best locations, agricultural sites at all in Slavonia and Baranja, therefore from vineyards, from what has been occupied for many years, and also from the minima of this area, etc., it is a land ready for one quality and ecological production, so from that tourism wine roads and all that we talk about sustainable development. Also, the story would be played on the ground where there is a Kopački ass which is, and not only the largest European habitat of swamps, so birds, etc., but also a nest of freshwater fish. We know what nuclear power plants mean about rising water temperature, etc., all that's needed to cool down. Likewise, the hep itself has demonstrated its intention already at this point deters investors, therefore, who wanted to invest in the area in the agricultural and food industries. So we want to know what Hep really wanted with that? We have experience in the city of Osijek where ten years ago they were booked at certain locations, people there raise a residential settlement and then mauled them with a scale of 110 kilovolt trafo station which, there, children like that in the Terminator that after the disaster, cataclysmsms, and they have this scaler right from the front door at 5 meters. 100 kilovolts per 10,000 squares. So we want to know what HEP wanted with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40464	Thank you very much. Replication response, Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40465	Thank you very much. Mr Kovacevic, I see that we agree on one thing, which is that this strategy should not allow the construction of a nuclear power plant in Croatia. This is what we clearly say, more investment needs to be made in renewable energy sources but this strategy opens up the possibility of building a nuclear power plant. I'll say one more thing, the nuclear power plant will probably finance, or the project will run HEP as the company that will use this resource. I will not go into the details of how capable HEP is and how trusting he is in the transparency of the company to lead such an investment. Absolutely yes, there is a possibility that the price of electricity will rise if we go to the nuclear power plant so that it can be financed, but how much of this money will be spent transparently can be seen daily as HEP operates. And that is why a clear message from our side and I see that you agree and do not support this Strategy because it introduces a nuclear power plant to a small door in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40466	State Secretary Tamara Obradovic-Mazal again requested the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40467	Thank you, Madam Vice President, indeed very briefly on two subjects and both through a small door. When we print the Strategy it will certainly be our light motive in design. As for the bought-out warehouse, I just remind myself that there was no first purchase of a warehouse from a private company, the warehouse was purchased from the INA, we are still owners of the INA, the warehouse was purchased from INA for the value of 514 million kuna, at estimated value as given by the independent consultant house Price Waterhouse Coopers. We bought the warehouse today in 2009, the warehouse could have been like Plinacro, which the note bene bought from the INA could have been singled out in 2003 when Plinacro separated from the INE and launched his own investment and business project. I must admit that as far as the mega-projects are concerned, I may have missed something, as far as I understand the mega-projects have been positively assessed even though the SDP Club said it would not support this strategy and you yourself, however, mega-projects have been put into one positive context in the name of the SDP Representatives Club. With regard to nuclear power, or the possibility of introducing nuclear energy, the profession involved in this strategy was strongly supported solely by the basic professional concept of the possibility of opening and nuclear power, i.e. as one of the additional sources of energy in Croatia. We have this possibility, the space, the entire hodogram of fulfillment, you have noticed that this cycle lasts for years, for several years certainly the assessment of the atomic agency is higher than 19 criteria which one independent nuclearist, regardless of the previous experience with the nuclear “Krško” which is not taken into account in this case, therefore the whole period is higher than 19 atomic energy criteria and that indeed only testing, the first giving of space and the possibility to discuss it at all and is in the strategy and concrete steps are taking years higher than those 19 criteria. Here's my apology for the intervention but I hope it brings some further clarification.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40468	Thank you very much. We have one correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40469	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. Around the gas warehouse, it was purchased from INA that from a private company in which the state has a share of 44%, but tell me what is the logic of buying something from someone that this person or company cannot carry from Croatia, it can serve only Croatian citizens and gas supplies to Croatian citizens. For this reason, INA must already give its post to Croatian citizens, instead of building a new warehouse, expanding capacities and ensuring Croatian citizens. And then, of course, it's still forgotten that other than the warehouse, you have to buy gas because the gas-free warehouse can't work, the distribution can't work. Of course forget it, it's under quotes, there's nothing forgotten, it's a job that's arranged very skillfully but untransparently and far from the eyes of the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40470	Thank you very much. Before we continue the debate, I have some remarks now. In fact, I am very pleased when the proposing representative reports and represents the views of the document the Parliament is discussing, however, the political competition in this Chamber is reserved for parliamentary representatives and no one else. I would still like the representatives of the motionor to refrain from making political remarks against the document they represent. There's plenty here of opposing sides of parliamentary deputies whose job it is. The word is represented by Zdenko Franić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40471	Honored Madam Vice President, honored Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. A few days ago, the United Kingdom Research Center issued a strategic document aimed at the British government, which said that the era of cheap and easily available oil had ended and that oil production was approaching the day of judgment. Anyone who wants that document can find and download it from their websites. In this light, the proposal for an energy strategy that we have ahead of us is unfortunately and palitative, as the problems look only ten years ahead, after which these classical traditional energies will become invaluable. However, even such a proposal has not been agreed or coherent with the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2009-2011 mandate, in which, under the objectives of point 8. Energy stands, I quote: "Our energy system will coordinate and connect with the European Union's energy system and market, secure energy supplies for our increased industrial development will continue, with the increase in supply routes." So the government's programme only talks about energy supply, and very little about production. The Government Programme also elaborates the supply routes of natural gas i.e. The highway pipelines will have an even greater impact on the energy dependence of the Republic of Croatia. The question arises which document is more important, the energy strategy we are currently discussing or the government's programme? Coming out of the crisis of the United States and the resulting rise in oil prices that we have seen in recent months, an increased drive for energy in the Chinese economy is causing both demand globally and require a much more efficient energy policy, programme and strategy than we are offered. Import energy, as we've seen, especially gas, has become a weapon of blackmail. In the media, too, we read that Croatia as the only of 29 European countries and this winter, if it is colder, will have problems in gas supply. It is said in the preliminary annual forecast of the Association of Gas Operators, i.e.... and no one from the government has denied it, and it is interesting that GTE indicates that the gas supply problem will not have any European states including Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia and Macedonia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The government's programme, as well as the energy strategy, had to focus far more on reducing the import dependence of the Republic of Croatia because only energy self-sufficiency and independence are guarantees of independence, sovereignty, independence and dams for modern neo-colonalism. How will the government compensate for the inflationary pressure of expensive energy? How will we compensate for the deficit when in 2015, due to the longevity of the end of life, several thermopower plants stop working and that power of around 1100 megawatts? Let us remind ourselves that there was no position in the Government programme either positive or negative on nuclear energy. True God has at least some indirect position in this document, however, the government is panicking about the very mention of the word nuclearly or radioactively, and so on the 35th page of the government's 2009-2011 programme, the need to adopt a new strategy and a spatial planning programme of the Republic of Croatia that will rule out nuclear waste disposal. And while perhaps I support what's going on with radioactive waste? My colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State, do you have any idea where radioactive waste is going that comes from the normal work of many industrial plants and hospitals? Whether the Government may also support a unique solution in the world that the temporary disposal of radioactive waste is located less than 3 km of the air line from this place, from this respected House, and at the Ruđer Boskovic Institute, radioactive waste such as thunderbolts, fire alarms, various radioactive sources etc. Not pleading neither for nor against nuclear power plants, although my personal position is that without nukes, there is no secure energy future, I wonder what the Government's position on the problem is? Because the energy strategy is one thing, the government's programme is another, and the fact is that in 10 years, there will be neither coal nor oil at all reasonable prices that would guarantee the normal development of the Croatian economy. How does the government plan to meet Kyoto protocol obligations? I am also interested in nuclear energy, and I think it is also interested in the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because of the notorious fact that the Republic of Croatia remains the owner, co-owner of 50% NE "Krško" located only 30 km of the Zagreb air line as the largest population centre in the Republic of Croatia and the capital. What's the point of selling no "Break"? What, of course, is not said in the strategy, but let us remember that Dr. Sanader's government programme explicitly stated that further development of the HEP business system, restructuring and privatisation will continue, and as it was stressed that this government is continuity is the same government programme? Personally, I believe that the stay of the Republic of Croatia in co-ownership of NE "Krško" is a guarantee of its safe work because it guarantees a direct impact on security policy, and by leaving the ownership structure of the Republic of Croatia, it can only influence the security policy of the nearby nuclear power plant through a highly complicated system of international conventions and protocols. The question arises who will lead this minimalistic and not particularly ambitious programme and strategy? The students of technical and natural sciences are getting smaller, especially those who deal with energy. The government's energy policy and this strategy should greatly exceed two-and-a-half years, such as in the programme or 10 or maybe 15-year period mentioned in the strategy. For example, already mentioned "United Kingdom Energy Research Center" has developed scenarios for the energy sector in Britain until 2050 when oil and gas are long gone. Unfortunately, this kind of energy program of the government is autistic, and the strategy written under the dictation of politics is just a little bit better. And I believe that both the Parliament and the Government should take one step forward and make an energy programme and strategy for a period that far exceeds one or two mandates because it would only be a guarantee of energy sovereignty, self-sufficiency and the consequences and independence of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, as the "Croatian Electricity – HEP" is now set up to play a lion's role in the development of the Croatian energy system is busy with its problems and it seems to me that all the money intended for alternative energy sources and eco-electric power has gone into the severance of the replaced HEP administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40472	Thank you very much. Next colleague for the debate Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40473	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. Well, first of all, from the discussion of all the speakers and the SDP club's attitudes, we won't support it. Of course, whoever read this strategy, which was referred to by the expert public, knows that it is a rather unprepared document that is brought rather in a hurry and is not good. We all know that, at least the ones who read in this hall. And we from the opposition and you from the post. It's one thing to defend a legal proposal that we have different attitudes about and that you think is good, we think there are some shortcomings. For this we know that it's simply not good, only you're simply defending a strategy that's not good. The reasons are in sequence. The outdated concept of energy strategy is something that everyone mentioned and what Mr Franic was talking about means a strategy that is defined for a somewhat shorter period of time cannot be comprehensive if it is in the energy process. But what's particularly important and what needs to be underlined is that we don't have the evaluation of the previous strategy. We had a strategy, a previous Green Paper strategy, and this strategy was adopted without the evaluation of the previous strategy. So, I mean, it's like going to work the house, and you don't know where you're from, and you don't have any foundation, and that's how it's going to come. Then the strategy plans to increase consumption, and hence dependence on non-renewable and inexhaustible energy sources. And this is something that all MPs have underlined, something that Croatia has no resources for, but which it insists on and what happens, if this strategy is blindly followed, energy dependence will happen. I must remind you that in the previous strategy this was written down. By 2020, a thousand 350 megawatts of electricity to be produced should be shut down and a new thousand 400 megawatts are scheduled to be opened. With increasing energy consumption, we will not be able to maintain existing capacities in the next 12 years with this dynamic, which is a big problem. This plan is ambitious, but if you look at how much it costs, it costs 15 billion euros over the next 11, 12 years. 15 billion euros is about 1.5 billion a year, which is 3% of the social product. You are now telling us that our social product will grow 3% every year only from investments in the energy sector. When all the strategies we have have are summed up, the Water Economy Strategy, the Transport Infrastructure Development Strategy, all the strategies we have, all these strategies are difficult annual GDP growth gentlemen from 10% to 15%. So I don't know if we can't see it? Don't we see what we're talking about? You assure us that our gross social product will grow 10% to 15% annually on these investments alone. Well, that's unreal. Is this year's gross social product has dropped 7%, in this year, the next most optimistic one will be at zero level, so it will stagnate during 2010, and we with all the strategies that the government has made only investments in these strategies are worth 10% economic growth. Someone's lying to someone. I can't really say, but it's something that absolutely can't hold water, because money just doesn't exist. I wish we had real action plans, strategies should be, but I'd rather have real action plans. But there are no action plans, but there are no other broad strategies that are necessary. The normal functioning of a country such as the Regional Development Strategy such as the General Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, and especially because there are no such general economic consensuss, there can be no action plans in which the story will be operated. And now the fact is that my predecessors have said that nuclear energy is favored in one part of this strategy. But I'm going to give you some information that doesn't contribute to favoring nuclear energy. I'm usually a physicist, so I can talk very objectively about it. Here, for example. One example from the world. He says, Australia, and when it comes to Australia, then he needs to know the following. Australia is the largest country with the largest uranium reserves in the world. It's convincing in the first place. Australia has therefore given up building nuclear power plants even though it has the largest reserves of uranium and is currently the second largest producer of uranium in the world, and is currently preparing for the construction of the largest solar thermal power plant in the world of thousands of megawatts, one gigabyte. That's what Australia does. I also informed the US Energy Information Agency, which means the most relevant energy agency based in the United States that has apostrophe of what they said and said in their study. It says that the realised costs of building nukes in the United States ranged from 209% to 380% higher than those presented at the beginning of the construction. So up to four times they were more expensive were the cost of building nukes. Your colleague Maras has also set you apart from... The study, which is the world's most prestigious scientific institution, is better off than this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as I know, you're not here. He says nuclear energy today is not an economic competitive source. Why? Well, just for these reasons. Because you can't estimate the price of electricity that will end up, because Croatia is not the fuel manufacturer that drives the nuke, because we don't even have money to invest in the nuke, because we need money outside, we need a concessionary, we need uranium from the outside, we need everything on the outside. And then it can't be normal and it can't be the best choice. If we have to import everything, then it can't be the best choice. And the fact is that Croatian comparative advantages in the area where energy independence should be pursued is, for example, The sun and the wind, something we've got ahead of us. And something with which the European Commission has plotted its way to 2020 that 20% of all energy sources, so that is a directive, should be replaced with renewable energy sources. And that is something that is binding and that will be binding for us tomorrow when we enter the European Union. 30 years ago, the French started building nukes and we'd like to go into the process now. And that is a bad problem in Croatia's approach to the story. Instead of pursuing those things that are most modern right now, we're going in that direction because there's no money and who knows when we're going to make any move on this strategy. I told you, expected growth only for investments should be over 10% per year for all strategies. So instead of going in the direction where the latest world research is, we're going in the direction where the research stopped 30 years ago and that simple system can't be good. It can't, it just can't be particularly cloudy. Speaking of renewable energy sources, then I'm still obliged to say that since it's a commitment to both Europe and the world and the fact that these institutions like US Energy Information Agency or MIT mean the most prestigious world institutions, so if they don't know so who knows. That's what this is about. If we're going against them now, then we're either very smart or we're very stupid, some of them. So they are through renewable energy sources, which Europe insists on and the world is not only investing in new technologies but is a much larger number of new jobs that can be opened. This shows all the research, draws a much larger and more layered part of the industry's branches that gravitate to a particular area where this story is done and what is least attractive to foreign investment because this private capital that comes to invest is simply less risk-sensitive. So the estimated costs are known, and while building a nuclear mastodon, we simply don't know these costs and we're at risk of borrowing, ore addiction, storage addiction, uncertainty addiction and risk addiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40474	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. Zdenko Franic is the first representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40475	Dear fellow Bernardic, I would like to point out once again that in the next few years, due to the permanence of the Croatian electricity system, several thousand thermoelectric power plants with several thousand megawatts will fall out. How are we going to make up for it when new power plants and thermoelectric power plants in this strategy are barely covering or not covering that loss? And here, from the latest HEP Vjesnik article "The consumption of energy in industry has grown 100% in the Split region". It's very optimistic, which means our industry is recovering. But it means that in the last few years we have had a growth in consumption in that region at least 10% of electricity. Where's that coming from? With a strategy like this, with a government program like this only from imports.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40476	Reply to the replica, MP Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40477	So that's why I'm undermining it. So, in the Green Paper, the first one in this energy strategy document says that by 2020, a thousand 350 megawatts are being extinguished and a thousand 400 new megawatts are scheduled to be opened. However, at this pace we are going not to open a thousand 400 new megawatts, but it will not open much more. So we're going to get into a situation where we're going to have less power than we have today if we keep closing this rhythm and opening it up with this rhythm. And that's what I'm also trying to say, not just that it's a problem. We don't have the money at this point or to maintain existing capacities, let alone to build new ones. So all these strategies are nice letters on paper, they can be in one part a product of advanced, wise, thorough, rooted thinking of people who have invested their time, energy and work to write, but the fact is that they will not operate. It's a simple fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40478	The second replica of Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40479	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In fact, I came across a replica from a colleague because his exposure led to technologies in renewable sources moving forward and as if technologies had stopped using atomic energy. In fact, before I make any comparisons, I will immediately say that I favour certainly renewable energy sources but that there are also resources and technologies limited and that we are coughing and that in this strategy it is really too little about renewable sources that it is said and certainly that it has to be extended far more but I think it is wrong to talk about atomic energy now as something that is completely unacceptable. Indeed, technologies have progressed, indeed advanced nuclear waste management technologies. And so, we can't say that today out of 440 power plants plus these nuclear or nuclear power plants that work or which are in construction are exclusively threatened by some kind of environmental pollution and unacceptable and economically unacceptable as well as by the energy of renewable sources, whether it's solar energy, wind is also new technologies, expensive technologies. Therefore, I would rather ask myself to say that at this very time that Croatia is 50% dependent on energy imports that we should work on all energy sources that give exactly or which satisfy those fundamental settings that we really have enough energy, that it is affordable and that it is equally acceptable to protect the environment and not to exclude any of these energy products, regardless of what some of us can realize earlier and some later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40480	The answer to the replica Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40481	Well, there's nothing to rule out, but it's just a matter of where we get 5 billion. That's the question that needs to be answered. So it's about money. If we don't have money, we can't build. That's one thing. As for renewables, it is possible to attract far more private investment. That's one thing. And for a nuke if there's no political will and there's no way that these things can be charged very well later, believe me, no one will come to you. That's one thing. As far as technology and new technologies are concerned, nuclear fission is a nuclear fission. It's a process that was discovered when great progress was detected in the shift of nuclear energy use is no longer available. There is only a difference in usability in production capacity, in construction. It's one process that's over. It's a physical process that you know about. The fact is also, and as far as renewable energy sources are concerned, there is a greater possibility in that part not only of discovering new things but also of newer models of use. So I'll give you an example. and Great Britain is one of the countries best used by renewable energy sources that constantly draws new innovations. But here's an example for you, for example. For example, Spain already has more installed power per capita in the energy sector today from wind power plants only, than is planned to be installed in the Croatian energy strategy by 2020 with all new renewable sources combined. So it's possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40482	We continue with individual debates. It is up to representative Marin Brkarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40483	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. State Secretary, Government Representatives. Here is something I will briefly say about the Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia. First of all, I'd like to ask you some questions. I am interested, and I believe that it is also interested in other representatives, who are the creators of this Energy Development Strategy because it is certainly not the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is the Rules of Procedure. It would be good to know which scientific institutions or individuals are the creators of this strategy, the more we know that in the team of Mr Obama, the President of the United States of America is one of our scientists right now working, I would say, one new approach and in the United States energy policy, so it would be good for us to know the persons or institutions that worked this strategy. The second thing I would say is already indicated, but certainly this strategy lacks one supplement, and this is the 2002 report on the implementation of the 2002 Strategy, which is in force by 2010, certainly to know some starting point from which we are starting, which is realised, which is not why it is not. I think many answers can be given through that question. And thirdly, I would point out that this strategy is contrary to the Programme of Spatial Planning of the Republic of Croatia, which by 2015 not only prevents construction but also any research, in particular the construction of thermal power plants on coal and nuclear power plants. So, if this Parliament adopts a strategy or strategy for energy development, it will be directly contrary to the programme itself of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia, that is, its decisions that it has made earlier. And what I would basically say, I can't normally support this strategy, it's already said on behalf of the MP club, but I don't think this is a 21st century strategy. I would say more that this is a strategy for the past century, that this is a strategy based on fossil fuels, on imports, unlike not valorizing renewable energy sources, especially I would say wind energy and solar energy, but certainly other renewable sources like biogas and the rest. And what's also important is that it is insufficient to deal with energy efficiency or savings, more and more with the further irrational consumption that is present today, and there is almost no talking about savings or very little. And thirdly, I would point out that the Republic of Croatia has ratified the Kyoto Protocol with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and is aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% and 30% by 2020, respectively. On the contrary, as the Republic of Croatia has been established in the Adrijale itself, it is difficult to achieve what the Kyoto Protocol has taken over, the more the construction of coal-powered thermal power plants is also advocated in these materials, 1200 megawatts and I would absolutely say unacceptable. It is unacceptable because the Republic of Croatia has ratified the Archduke Convention, which regulates open and free access to information on the environment and public participation in these issues. And today we can certainly say because at least we know so much, although in secret, studies are being made, research for the construction of the Plomin 3 thermal power plant on coal in the most tourism county in the Republic of Croatia, it is Istria County and I don't think that's right. It is done past and contrary to all spatial-planned documents such as the spatial plan of the municipality in the area planned for construction or spatial plan of the county. I don't think this approach and this kind of work is acceptable and absolutely, and we can't accept a single strategy that I think is obsolete and that it was necessary to use all of our local brains or science to get to the best quality solutions, solutions that are acceptable to all of us. We know that we need energy, but the development that is based on environmentally acceptable solutions or solutions that are present today in Europe and the world, and they are going to a new one, so to speak, by approach to the use of renewable energy sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40484	Thank you very much. This debate will conclude the first morning work of today's session. Continuing at 3:00 p.m., there are nine more reported. The first is Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40485	We continue with the session and the debate on the proposal for a strategy for energy development of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40486	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The question arises whether this proposal of the Strategy should be missed at the Assembly and essentially accepted and confirmed. Personally, I don't think you should vote for this kind of strategy. The Republic of Croatia has a strategy until 2012 which has its projections by 20th and even by 2030. It is very clear in these strategies that all energy sources in the Republic of Croatia are really being said and complete energy is being affected. Therefore, not only electricity, but oil and gas and transport, much wider than the new Strategy is proposed. Let's try to remember how we started discussing this strategy. In 2008, why, we also had a major crisis in gas supply, then it was necessary to propose a debate on this strategy. In two years of discussion of this strategy, the profession has no common opinion, differences are important in the professional thinking related to this strategy, not only to distinguish the profession but also to part of civil society, civil society which is very concerned about the relationship of exploitation and I would say the production of energy with environmental protection and the use of the resources of our children's future, there is also no common agreement, common approach. When we look at a narrow, small part of the public who worked on the strategy proposed this strategy at the same time a good part of the professional public, a good part of civil society is against this strategy. So we wonder how it is possible for this Strategy to appear in 2008, and then we realize that this Strategy should have been used to reduce the responsibility of the Croatian Government in some way because the existing Strategy has not tried to achieve and implement it. It was not invested in oil either, it was not invested in gas, it was not invested in oil and gas exploitation, it was not invested in the processing of oil into transport, in warehouses, and it is better not to talk about HEP and electricity, which has also completely stopped significant investments in electricity systems that were supposed to guarantee the replacement of already existing technologies, or technologies that will essentially stop producing electricity on 10, 12, 13. And not only that, but in the last few years, we have grown more and more energy importers, and it is evident that we should not have been, that we have somehow followed and realised the strategy that is today in force. Therefore, the strategy that should have been used for the political blurry of the public, and I would say the Croatian government's unhappiness. And today we're clearly back in front of the winter period, again in front of the problem of gas delivery, the security of gas delivery, again we're going to... about the cessiums and degrees of low temperatures because there will be no delivery. We're not going to say that it's a blur of change that we need to buy gas business for the reason we need to buy warehouses, so now we realize that it's crazy that the state budget is helping Plinacru in some way to pay for the production stock of INA, because in the car there's a production stock of INE, we don't have to pay for it, and we have an energy agency that needs to define the storage costs, and we have regulations on how to store it, which is the job of the warehouse and what costs it can show. We just made huge mistakes, why we did it I don't know. Not only that, you have more and more articles in the media that because of not investing in gas fields, INA oil fields do not execute concession contracts and sell out gas fields which are otherwise rated as quality and which could contribute, I would say the increase of supplies in the Republic of Croatia is now selling them out. There was no investment, and there was a strategy there still. Therefore, instead of seriously talking in this Parliament over the last two, three years about the ineffectiveness of the Croatian government to put energy, energy resources, companies dealing with becoming less and less addictive, about foreign energy, about becoming those who will export at least electricity to become those who will increasingly have their own derivatives and not a huge dependence on import oil derivatives, we are now discussing this strategy. So let's not deal with it, let's give it up, this strategy brings us back to the three most problematic moments. One thing is, we're going to lead the controversy whether we're going to have atomic energy or not, atomic energy where we're going to depend on foreign technology, on sources of energy for the nuclear power plant that's back on the side, about depositing where it's going to depend again on a foreign country. I just don't want to talk about how to encourage Croatia's economy, all foreign. On the other hand, we are running about trying to talk in some way, and what to do is try to use alternative sources. From biomass, from solar energy, from water energy, we can do all that. Unfortunately, this strategy has not taken this seriously. And, of course, that third problem that's obvious. A strategy that costs the next 10 years 15 billion euros. So I wonder if we're serious people? 15 billion euros, where it's possible to throw away numbers that they don't really know. They don't need it, they don't need it. Whoever knows something means the thermal power plant 1000 megawatts, which means the hydropower plant, which means any manufacturing new electricity producer, where can we spend that much? What are we talking about? Where can we find such resources? Where can we do that? But if someone's already estimated such a crazy number, because it's obvious that it's unrealistic, inappropriate, then I'm asking if anyone's ever asked where that money's going to go? So if we offer solutions to go to import technology, to turn to atomic energy, not to think about small plants where they could be Croatian entrepreneurs, I would say Croatian creators, people who do this job, and they have no support because HEP is their enemy number one. What does that mean? That we already know in advance that most of that money, even though it's going to be half as much as this figure, will go out. So we're thinking again about importing, importing, importing and spilling money out. And these are reasons that we really shouldn't discuss such a strategy and that it is best to stay in the existing one and the Croatian Parliament to discuss how to implement the existing strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40487	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40488	Well, here's counterpart Linic says that actually this strategy is a political blur, which we can't agree on anyway, because in the strategy there really is a well-developed everything that needs to be done, which is probably a good part of it and done, but it seems to me that it's actually a political blur on this exposure of fellow Linic, clouding what was done because it mentions that the refineries haven't been restored, and it's not because his government just sold MOL 25% plus one share of the right not to rebuild the refineries. Also the damage done probably more than half a billion consists in seizing out... It's not a separate warehouse, and it's supposed to be. [[The speakers don't understand.]] It's as if the INA was detached from the gas and kept the gas in the abandoned refineries. Well, I think you should be honest so say so and it's over.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40489	Mr. Representative Vlatko Podnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40490	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's because this proposal also touched biomass, and since I come from the forest profession, I know that back in the early 1960s, in the era of shaming with fast-growing leaves for the production of cellulose, i.e. paper, but also biomass and paternity on, i.e. brushing with brushes in the area of shrieks and boudars in the area of Like and Kordun, for that very reason, there was also an experiment and all the shamings. So it's for the start of biomass. In the mid-80s there was also a beginning of belief, but because of the situation and the need for biomass, it could not be used in the way it is used today and can be exploited. Unfortunately, both these machines and everything that was in use back in the '80s were preserved in the late 1980s, the Homeland War came and stopped these activities regarding Croatian forestry. It was only 1995 that the first thermal plant was built at the Forest Ogulin administration with a capacity of 1 megawatt and for heating and other and residential facilities, but also schools and sports halls. But all that remains is nothing. The only thing left to do is to keep that plant warm just the administration building in Ogulin. In 2002, one such thermocenter of 1 megawatt in Gospić was also planned for the construction of the management of the "Suma Gospić" administrative building, but the problem remains to be ensured, i.e. who has the right to concession, who has the right to collect it, how and how is this solved? Among other things, a Regulation has been signed, i.e. a Regulation on the tariff system for the production of electricity from biomass has been adopted, but this continues to be the case. What is interesting for forestry and what is the state and possibilities in the production of biomass Croatia today has around 2.7 million hectares of forest and forest land, about 400 million cubic cc's of wood supply, 10 and a half million per cent of growth and about 6 and a half million t's or blade mass per year. Most of that wood mass ends up in the wood industry. Then about 2 million logs, a cellulose tree of about 10%, about 650 thousand cubic cc's, or part for domestic paper industry and part for export and heating wood about 20%, or 1.3 million cc's of wood mass. Other, to say the same thing, it rots organically in the forest, but it also causes CO2 to rot, and it also causes methane to form like a greenhouse gas. Today it is mentioned that somewhere today what would be available in the Croatian forests is available, only in the Croatian forests, I am not talking about private forests somewhere around a million and 100 thousand cc's of thigh mass and which could also be used as biomass in the production of electricity but also mostly in the production of electricity in cogeneration systems. Among other things, there was information that Croatia could be on poor agricultural land or on those screams and boudars that I mentioned earlier, about 180 thousand hectares to raise fast-growing species right into energy plantations, where somewhere around 400 thousand cubic metres in five, six years could get a biofuel as well. So today we have about 82 petajoules of biomass energy available. But what has been done to date, except for these two heat-powered thermals, we have nothing more. We have a decline of private entrepreneurs who have realized that they could produce pellets or briquettes, achieve something on the foreign market, do it in Austria or Germany and nothing else. We have a company called Biomass owned by the Croatian Forests, but it basically serves only to transfer money and a chosen senior mediator in contracts between Croatian forests and direct customers from the Croatian Forests. In this proposal for a strategy, it is also illogical that in the first proposal, it is possible and necessary by 2020 to use 36 petajoules, and now it says 26 petajoules. It also says that part of this biomass will be used in numerous power plants, in a number of power plants up to 85 megawatts, and today it is in the process of building and co-financing from the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Economy and the Agency for Energy Efficiency of 6 cogenerations in force of 25 megawatts. It is really incomprehensible now that by 2020 only 85 megawatts, and also why it is not put into that programme at least as much as its current opportunities for Croatia, means 85 petajoules, which would then certainly increase the use of this wood biomass to 200 and at least three times, or 240 megawatts, and we have heard here today that we are falling out within five years of some 360 or as many thousands of 360 megawatts, or by a thousand megawatts by 2020. So what's put into this energy strategy isn't enough. It is not just how much we will be able to use those biomass, because it is not available everywhere, because it is part of the wood biomass in the field of debris, where it serves something else, but what is available. It also states here that the precondition for development will be put forward in the incentive measures of state, industrial, agricultural and energy policies. And where's the forest policy? It is not there, because it was not even brought by this Croatian Parliament regardless of the Law on the Forests. So it would probably be there that biomass must be used and exploited, just for these needs. But it is added that management will be developed, in fact wood-processing industry, forest management will develop, and forest biomass will be exploited, it will encourage the reforestation and cultivation of short-circuit cultures over forest land. Where? What acres? How much of these rapidly growing species do we want to get biomass? I don't know. It doesn't say that. But obviously we don't, because we didn't see it coming. Since there is an Association for Biomass in front of the Croatian Forest Society as a section and it has also brought these problems to Nasice on its five days already and again, and I would like to ask you to respect it. But what's worse, and I know these woods can, unfortunately they're not covered enough, and that's why I can't support this strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40491	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40492	Well, my colleague actually gave me a chance to potentiate one issue that is related to biomass, but it's also related to wood mass for other purposes, which is a matter of technical wood, furnier wood. Often when we travel to northern Italy, then we're impressed by the plantations of technical wood. Unfortunately, though, we do not have such policies in Croatia. I will give an example of Croatian Zagorje. Small plots, economic calculations for agriculture are not available, resistance to environment exists because of poor historical experiences, loss of ownership rights, lack of incentives or policies of the Ministry of Agriculture, Croatian forests for the promotion of several annual plantations that would serve for the wood-processing industry, but at the same time as the base for the acquisition of thermal energy, or biomass energy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40493	Thank you. Replica reply, Mr. Representative Vlatko Podnar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40494	Well, colleague Hanzek is just the problem that we unfortunately don't have any politics. Italy had a policy of fast-growing Topola cultures, so there is a known clone I 214 that has now served both for paper production and for the biomass part, and also for technical processing. Unfortunately, we used to get too involved in forestry in one concept of natural restoration and natural forests that are the best and most stable and envy and the world to them, but we're not the other. There are only 5% of cultures and plantations in Croatia's forestry. We're not that part that we're just on some surfaces that are mentioned here, those 180 grand, but there's more than 800 thousand acres, they're not used in the sense that they really could. The problem of split pitches, the problem of private forest owners is a really big problem because there is no quality problem, because again, we do not have quality forestry policy and strategy and we do not know what we want from private forest owners and this is one of the possibilities and rural development because precisely all these areas are next to villages and where it can develop and retain these people on their parcels or in their... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40495	Mr. Representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40496	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. I'm going to talk only about one subject that interests me most, and eventually I'm going to say for what reason. Of course, I'll do it again, I'll repeat the words of my colleagues who spoke earlier, it's about renewable energy sources. Well, as has already been pointed out several times in previous discussions and despite the additional explanations of Madam Secretary of State, I join the view of the predecessors that the exploitation of renewable energy sources in this strategy is quite a smurf. There was even said to be minimalized, several more expressions were used which actually said that the question of renewable energy sources in the strategy has much less meaning than they should really have. I would, from the strategy's proposal, in fact, consider the most important data and this is the planned goal of keeping it at 35%, so at the existing level of electricity generation by 2020 from renewable energy sources even more acceptable given the overall energy consumption if we did not fully look at a document like this, which, as my esteemed colleague, Mirela Holy said, should be resourcefully focused rather than wastefully focused. So this maintenance at the existing level, with an estimated annual increase in energy consumption, is, in any case, some progress, but I'd say it's not because we have to plan how to save energy and not how to spend it. In previous discussions, it is also pointed out that for this part of renewable energy sources, local self-government shows that units of local self-government have a whole range of local projects in the field of energy as well as the use of these renewable sources for some different purposes. So not just pure energy. In all of this, I would first of all relate to something that seems to me to be really minimally processed here, which is a question of geothermal energy or a source of geothermal water. When we look at what the energy strategy is talking about, then actually geothermal sources represent one truly entirely domestic energy resource, and it's clean, and it's renewable, and it's cheap. And at this point where we can use them all the time. In addition, it is known that Croatia is extremely competitive in this respect compared to the whole region and I would say of the wider part of Europe, both by the number of these sources of geothermal energy and by quality and by the height of the temperature and geothermal water. And what's interesting is that in one segment of the strategy we're talking about so-called. Nimbi syndrome, therefore, does not want certain energy facilities to be built into what is said in my backyard, so near certain units of local self-government. I think this is the only power source for which that syndrome doesn't exist. I think all those who have such a source in their backyard, or in their surroundings, are very pleased to have it they want to exploit it. So they don't dispute his exploitation. What should also not be ignored is that most geothermal sources are in the rural area, so in one I would say less developed area than the rest of this urban part of Croatia and any such source represents I would say capital for the local self-government unit above all. In addition, it is known that the use of geothermal sources is not for the production of electricity a cheap source or cheap potential. So the production of electricity is in any case one common process, but there is another form that is the production of heat energy and that part should in any case be said I would say stronger or more prominently in the strategy itself because we have largely focused on this part of electricity production and everything has gone in this direction. It is clear to all of us that electricity is the fundamental energy that is really the most needed and used. However, heat energy should not be ignored as an important driver of numerous and technological and production processes, as well as the form of energy needed for the lives of citizens. What is known is that in the world, for example, heat-generating facilities develop more than twice as quickly in the field of exploiting geothermal sources than in electricity production. Maybe we shouldn't force that story, but why not stress the possibility of using geothermal sources in particular I say in the sphere of heat generation. Until recently, it's ours as much as our INA worked a whole series of wells and whenever they were able to find water instead of oil and gas, then we said it was a failed drill. But most of these failed wells have resulted in water from thermal, mineral, and similar characteristics with very high temperatures and can be built on this finding because a whole series of such wells exist throughout Croatia today. Many of them are untapped, weed-enhanced, blemished, so not to mention that the local population is very often suspected that some of these high-pressure wells are affected by certain substances that they shouldn't. But that's the second sphere of consideration of this issue. The use of such resources everywhere in the world is economically justified and we need to treat such resources in a quality way through this strategy and through all other strategies, and one that treats tourism and economic strategy or economic strategy. We know that in modern times most of these geothermal sources are used for the purely healing tourist purposes. Well, that's just one detail, one detail that is generally very often not only does it not use all the heat that comes from that water, but we have a case that this has to be cooled down so that it can be used for these medical purposes. An increasing number of investors, both domestic and foreign, appear as interested investors for one broader spectrum of exploiting such geothermal sources, primarily in the techniques of heating different production facilities, hence technological not only housing. Then, in the technique of greenhouse or plastic farming of agricultural products, in drying techniques also of agricultural products, wood and similar products. Then in livestock production, in fish production, etc. So one technology base has already been elaborated on how all of this can be used. And finally, since I mainly touch on the subject in my discussions and talk about the topics that matter to me, given the area I come from, which is Slavonia or more specifically Vukovar-Srijem County, I have to say that there is also a very great interest in this issue. He probably wouldn't have been in the debate today if I hadn't been called by the people of Babin Gredo municipality last night. In fact, they followed the debate in the Parliament last night, and when the session is over, it is said that we will continue tomorrow, starting with the agenda point of the energy strategy. It is known that the Pannonian part of Croatia is rich in geothermal sources. Most of them, except for a few of us known as Daruvar, Lipik, Bizovac, are both large and untapped. Even this part that was used was partially used. In the areas of Slatina, the Benescans, Ernestinov, and what I said to Babine Grede was absolutely untapped. A number of contacts have been established and numerous plans have been drawn up. The county has also been involved, municipalities and others have been included in Babina Greda so that this geothermal spring that exists at Babina Greda, which has a temperature of 125 degrees Celsius, etc. Here, I'll finish it. Just one more sentence. To make use of it, it's important to develop, and that's where many people would be hired. The energy strategy should have a better represented area of geothermal resources and, of course, increased, an emphasis on energy savings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40497	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Vlatko Podnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40498	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Heffer, just when you're talking about these possibilities local self-government knows where these sources are, knows where the wells are, but when you're looking for INA data, then you can't get them. It's a military secret, and everyone did it, done in the '80s. Back in the '70s, early '70s, back in the '90s. So far it's been explored. Unfortunately, local self-government cannot today and when it wants to create a programme based on geothermal sources it cannot because it has no data, or it cannot win, that I do not then talk about concessions and all those problems that will eventually arise when the project is realised at all if the project can be done at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40499	Replication response, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40500	Thank you very much, colleague, for what you said. In fact, a large number of these sources are still considered INA property. The issue is now in the privatisation of INA how much can be counted on taking advantage of these geothermal sources. But I hope that the interests of the community will still prevail in this regard. And here I will be free to point out that Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament recently in Slatina pointed out the possibility of exploiting such geothermal sources and that this shows the increased interest of the Republic of Croatia in this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40501	That project's going. Mr. Representative Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40502	The characteristics of this strategy when the proposer in the Croatian Parliament tries to defend that good is that this strategy was at a public debate and, of course, it was done by the profession and has the support of the profession. It is common for something that is then poorly processed or not well offered, then for us in the Republic of Croatia to wear it in a democratic public debate and then say that it was not the ignorant that did it, but it was the profession. But when it's a little bit messy now, then you get this kind of information, so the waist said it, the public debate said it. However, what was critically stated in the public debate, what was well-intentioned in the public debate from the second part of the profession said that it should be respected in the final document, of course, did not see the light of the day, so the promoter was not cooperative enough to respect at least some of the professional proposals that came from the other side and to include them in this proposal for the energy development strategy of the Republic of Croatia. As we already know, we have today's Energy Development Strategy, which, if I remember correctly, was developed by the Energy Institute of Croatian Fire based on some dozen national energy programmes and the old '98 strategy. A year. So we can't say that this strategy, which is valid today, which is valid when we adopted it, is worth until 2030, and this new one is somewhere until 2020, not until 2030. I can't understand that people from the Energy Institute of Croatian Fire who were doing this existing strategy are ignorant, but they can't even say that those who were working on a new strategy are ignorant if we know they were ECONERG, Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing, etc. in 2008. And in what ways do these two strategies differ? Well, first of all, they differ in a few things. As I said the first strategy, a valid strategy that we have, a strategy that contained and, beyond that, an accepted implementation programme and such a strategy, but we have never seen what has really been seen of that programme in these years since it was adopted, and since it's been living, you've seen on the agenda of this session of Parliament according to this new consolidated here, it's written under point 3. The report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the action plan to combat drug abuse. Report. Intoxicating drugs. Drug addicts. Are we dependent on imported energy today? We did. We're addicts. Have we ever received a report in this Croatian Assembly on what was done or why nothing was done based on one or today's valid strategy? If, of course, I'm not, I'm just comparing because of my addiction not because of the number. Energy and energy strategy is for all of us 4 and a half million inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia, so we depend on it. But you see, that addiction didn't deserve to get a report in the Croatian Parliament to know what was done at this age. The difference is also what seems to me to be deliberately this new document, the draft new strategy introduced a nuclear power plant like, due to the growth of energy consumption that has been significantly increased from what we will ever be able to spend, because it has not been, of course, respected by that strategy any strategy of our economic development that could justify this level of consumption. And it seems to me that it was purposely done to then in the discussions on the strategy talk about something that is good or bad as a nuclear power plant, but it's important that in this strategy nuclear energy is despite the world's experiences showing something else, if we read them, but you see here listed in this strategy, the new strategy as the cheapest source of electricity, which is simply not true. It is also claimed that if you have a nuke, it is the only source of energy that in this energy strategy we have new to it does not indicate any deficiency because it is great, excellent, five. There's not a single minus nuclear power plant that I don't know where it's gonna be, when it's gonna be in and out of whose space it's gonna be. Whether in Split or in the spatial plan of Split there will be a nuclear power plant, whether in my Rijeka because I don't know which unit of local self-government will ever implement a spatial plan so that there is a nuclear power plant. So the strategy, for the sake of strategy, to get another piece of paper that no one will even look back on, and we already have one existing strategy, I think it's unnecessary, because if we're going to print only strategies and papers like that, then here's the amount of paper that we have here in the Parliament, it might be good to think about rebuilding or re-foundeding another paper factory so that we have something to produce and paper for, because instead of just producing strategies and papers, it would be good if we had produced any of that necessary infrastructure, energy infrastructure that we depend so heavily on. Of course, when you look at the country that is over the pond and one of the leaders of that country gets the Nobel Peace Prize, which is a sign of peace, but you also see this man who has won the Nobel Peace Prize, if nothing else, in his election promises he has focused most on, and this is their new energy policy and their new administration, to put emphasis on energy efficiency and renewable energy sources as his focus which this strategy ignores. Now, if it's a good thing that we look up to big America every time, so if they realize it's necessary and that we really need to focus on energy efficiency and renewable energy sources, then I don't know why we don't listen to a Nobel laureate in small Croatia. But I believe the Nobel Prize is a strange institution, so let's say it was won by an economist, the American Nobel Prize for Self-Government, under quotes, not to spread the story. Well, I believe that sometimes we'll listen to these Nobel laureates, even if there's nothing in this strategy. What I would like to say is that this lack of respect for renewable energy is catastrophic. If you look and ride our highways or listen to the radio then you will realize that the storm blows both summer and winter, that the wind has, thank God there is, but... It was all about coal and gas, so then we have this absurd situation that we're from a company that we claim isn't a private company, but it's a state-owned company, which is INA, buying gas business, so then that price of that gas business was about 2 million kuna if I remember correctly, at least that's what the media was saying. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But you see now in these latest media reports she's fallen, something is falling that price of that gas business. Obviously, it's been there since INA and state trade to somehow buy what used to be ours and what we weren't supposed to buy, but what we needed to do for that money was to build a new gas storage facility. Not the papers to produce, but the new gas warehouse that would be ours. It wouldn't be someone else's, it'd be ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40503	Thank you. One correction, one replica. First correction by Mr Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40504	Thank you very much. Namely, I would like to correct the allegations of a fellow MP who said that we already had this in the House today by the promoter. So we've already had this by the promoter in the Parliament where you said drive in the car and see the sun and the storm. And that's an argument for renewable energy sources. Where the storm blows, there's no way to place those windmills and there's no wind. So that's the wrong thing to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40505	Replica, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40506	Since it is very often spoken falsely in the House, it is also necessary to repeat it a thousand times. In Croatia, gas business was separated in 2002 and Plinacro is a 100% Croatian company, its business was the transport of gas and storage of gas. And in 2002, the gas business was separated. Those who have been mixing around the sale of the last branch of INE, with the price, with amounts, about the affairs we will still read about, have been selling us a story about the separation of the gas business for the last year. The INA in Croatia exploits gas, the INA in Croatia takes out gas in wells, and stores it in production warehouses that are also very often gas import warehouses. At this very moment precisely because of these strange privatization business, the story we've heard about the gas business being isolated, the state is now spending money buying..., buying supplies by buying rooms to store production or exploit gas, and we're going to create real chaos, and we have a product market law that regulates everything. Malversions are the ones that have served us to explain that it is necessary to buy... Six years or seven years of the existence of Plinacro was enough to build a new gas storage facility that was supposed to serve only one thing, to import gas and secure gas supply in Croatia, and it was not done and that is why citizens are frozen and therefore production does not have enough quantity in winter.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40507	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40508	Mr Linic, in this country, who still respects the Law, and even this Law on INI, but how these national strategies, and the security of the Republic of Croatia determines energy security as a component of national security, I doubt that this new energy strategy, which will only be a letter on paper, can ensure that we are national security, because if we give these imaginary 15 billion to someone and we give them to someone else, because we will not be able to build what this strategy is about, we certainly won't be, as national security will surely be disturbed. As far as the wind is concerned, you hear as I do that the storm is blowing, so the highways are closed, the sun is not soaring, let the sun be closed, but I'm not saying it by heart, of course, if I remember, the potentials of renewables in Croatia were determined specifically by detailed analyses at the end of the 1990s by national programmes, for example... and they are rich, too rich and this strategy has not respected them at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40509	Mr. Representative Dino Kozlevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40510	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the topic, it is very difficult to say something new, but you will agree that this is not about telling the most important but one of the most important strategic documents that a country can bring, especially as it is about one area, about one activity that determines the life and work of people today, I will also say broad humanity but in particular determines the life and work of a country, determines the development of a country like the Republic of Croatia. In order to develop normally, we must have a quality strategic document. I am not sure that this document, which has been offered, made an effort, I would also single out the effort made by the section of the expert public and we are witnessing that part of the professional public disagrees with this document, and I believe that this document should be made, I know that we will not be able to meet all interests, all the criteria that are related to such a document, but that document should bring most of the Croatian Parliament's life and the work of people should be and should be behind such a document, so that such a document should then be respected by all the elements which one document that determines life and the work of the people should contain. First, I would say that environmental consciousness, and development, the level of environmental consciousness today much higher than it was just 5, 10 and 15 years ago, and that this is one of the essential elements that such a single document which is a strategic document must contain. And it is precisely the great sensitivity of the public to this authority, and on the other hand it is also very important that we have to meet the needs of the Republic of Croatia for energy, in the next period, the fact is that we have become addicted, we still don't know how much they deal with various figures, we have become dependent on import energy. One state is also sovereign to how autonomous it is, how much it does not depend on, how much it has its own sources of energy, and we have all agreed and taught us, as someone might say they may have taught us wrongly, but we ourselves know that our spaces, the spaces of the Republic of Croatia, have had opportunities so far in the development of energy and have opportunities. And in the future right from the position of renewable sources, I will not say modern sources, but renewable energy sources, as my colleague said earlier, are not enough sun and wind, but these spaces are God-given to have enough sun and wind, and not only the sun and wind but we also have countries, we have listened today to people who understand themselves, who are from the branch about biofuels and all that we can produce, to honor if nothing else plastically those 20% that the Republic of Croatia, as all countries have accepted to have up to 20% renewable energy sources at least. Whether the hydrocenter is a renewable energy source, on the one hand, experts will say that, on the other hand, we do not, however, know what the consequences are at the very beginning when it is built in a particular area, we know what the consequences are direct, which are indirect, which have a consequence of people's life and work, on the climate and all that is happening. Therefore, we have plenty of space, we need to respect everything the public has said in the past, we should also respect and ultimately the Republic of Croatia has accepted the Convention which speaks of the public and the flow of information relating to environmental protection or to the environment and all that information we need to communicate with citizens, and ultimately we here as representatives of citizens will also bring this document in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, we must communicate with people, with civil society, with associations and listen to what our associations and people who understand themselves are talking about. Nuclear energy or atomic power plant in any case I'll say no myself. No, no matter what you wrote in the study, it's written in the study that she's all five of what my colleague would say. It's all true 5, but it has with everything that's expensive etc. which Croatia cannot build just like that, which requires many years, but does not ignore the security aspect because today the atomic power plant and energy produced in this way has not reached a degree, I will not say 100% security, but no degree of security has been achieved so that the accident and la Chernobyl cannot happen. It will not be such an extent, the recovery would probably be different, technical solutions are different, but progress in nuclear energy production is always the same. Fission is fission, produced always the same way, process is the same. Technical protection measures and all that can be done are such that they do not still guarantee security that in a given area, a particular large area, cannot be destroyed at a given time. Therefore, it is too high and too high a risk to allow me in these areas where we have tied development to tourism, to a healthy environment, to agriculture and all that we can afford. As far as I'm concerned, I also resent that we're still relying on fossil fuels, or we're relying on coal as potential, means not a potential but a possible source, and it's also not the ratio of what we have to shut down in the coming years and what we're going to have to do in the coming years, so it turns out that we're going to be in the surplus of just a small part of the megawatt, or power power. When we talk about coal, too, the study doesn't say where it's going to be thermally, but as I come from Istria and I have to say, based on the experience with the "Plomin 2" thermocentral, which as we say must be objectively polluting less than the "Plomin 1" thermocentral, because it uses another type of fuel, but it is located in one space where so much energy with the "Plomin 3" thermocenter is absolutely not needed, where consumers will be away from that space. Where space is tied and the region is related to tourism and tourism revenues, and in this sense it is necessary to see where such an energy facility can be created, and in any case you will agree that it must be as close to consumers, but "note bene" in any case I advocate and we advocate to be on gas as energy. Therefore, one problem that arises also in communication with the public and when we go into the implementation of the strategy, that is, when we start to work the facilities, is that we must respect the local community and that, in any case, the local community from energy facilities and such objects that are of general interest, of which the entire Republic of Croatia benefits, such a community and the locality in which such facilities are located must have real compensation, I would not say compensation, but at least the compensation for what such facilities are in that space and the experience we have with the thermocentral "Plomin 2" so much that the symbolic means and what the local community or municipalities and cities in that area are making. Here, respected colleagues, in any case, I am in favour of not accepting this strategy, this document, not to be broken over the knee, but to be completed, to respect all those remarks, to be complemented by the professional public of environmental associations and parliamentary representatives, and to then bring a complete document that will, I would say, be the product of consensus of all interested people, and are interested citizens of the Republic of Croatia, institutions and politics and we as responsible that we will all stand behind this document. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40511	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40512	Thank you very much. I would like to discuss two things that my colleague was talking about, which is perhaps from this last one where he said that the local community should certainly have those economic benefits from installing certain energy plants and that is where we agree. On the other hand, I do not agree that this local community should fear and fear it in the long term, because Croatia's small-door electricity has already booked itself through a spatial plan and managed its location in the Erdut municipality, which I find inadmissible, so that a small door without a decision of the Croatian Parliament already prejudges the solution whether something will finally be built or not built. I am therefore that the local community is economically benefiting from the construction of these facilities, but I am not up to the local community for several years or over a decade because Croatian electricity is without Parliament's decision, without creating a strategy etc. through the spatial plans at the small door tried to get involved in some reservations and locations. And another thing I wanted to talk about now that I mentioned Croatia's electricity industry, namely what I want to say, we received a Slovak economy minister who said Slovakia's energy sector was completely out of control of the state a few months ago. The shares sold 50%, so 50% of the ownership, but they handed the entire management over to foreigners and now they have a situation where they have more expensive energy than those parent companies that are from those countries that privatised their sales of energy in their countries of origin. That can't happen with us.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40513	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Dino Kozlevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40514	My friend, I don't think you've even replicated it to me, but to supplement the debate. I absolutely agree that this is what happens, when I talk about the thermocenter "Plomin 3" then I say the same thing on the basis of knowledge and information and all that, and you know that they're in fear of big eyes, that they're doing studies, they're being interrogated, they're doing it, they're doing it, they're doing it, they're doing it, they're doing it. We had one procedure to change the spatial plan, etc., so that it would not have happened as you have said this example because each local community is in the same situation, which is why I suggest that we still talk about the strategy, there is time and there is also time that we have to be inside the coal thermo-thermal. In the end, is there more coal coming out in the Republic of Croatia? I can understand in history when coal, when it also thermocentered 1 made in a pool that has coal. There is no coal in Croatia today, we must import it from far away. So, I absolutely agree with that. And about this, too. It's inadmissible that we privatized, we privatized, we gave, we gave, we obviously don't have any movement back. That there's other than what Chavez's been doing these days. But it is unacceptable to privatise more than one millimeter of the energy sector, and in particular to privatise the electricity sector and allow the parties to come into possession of it. It is a strategic issue and it must remain owned by the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40515	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40516	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Representatives of the government. After a full day's debate, a few words. There are several fundamental objections to this proposal for a strategy for the energy development of the Republic of Croatia. I'd bring it down to four. I don't think he's protecting enough national interest. This strategy is unrealistic, it is unambitious and does not care about environmental protection. Well, let's take it in a row. When I say that it does not protect enough national interest, I define national interest as more energy independence and self-sufficiency of the Republic of Croatia, which I think is one of the fundamental national objectives. She was already written first of all to protect the interests of certain lobbies. If we know what the original strategy is and now what we have on the benches, we see that after a long time they have managed to agree that everyone gets something. Well, then we have a coal thermal power plant, a gas thermopower plant, one nuclear power plant, something small wind power plants and some hydroelectric power plants. For every single thing. And everyone here will earn something when building or importing energy. And that's what I think it is on that basic element, based on what this strategy is based on, which is a projection of the energy consumption that I think it is, and here it is not once repeated by my colleagues, that it is unrealistic, that it is pump-up, that it is too large, that it does not take into account the deindustry of the country that is coming, that it does not take into account the depopulation that is in action and which, unfortunately, will follow, which does not take into account the introduction of new technologies that are likely to reduce consumption, or it will not allow it to grow linearly as it is written in the strategy. When I say that the strategy is unrealistic for realisation, this is where 15 billion euros are handled, and it's probably a larger amount, I think it's written at a time of false conjuncture, false abundance. Let's remember here these years how we've been throwing ourselves hundreds of miles of highways, how we promised bridges, how we promised railroads, how we promised the canals. And all of a sudden overnight, it all burst like a soap bubble. There's no more of that. Neimar the great and leader Ivo Sanader left and buried these tracks with him, and the canals, the highways themselves buried. And now we're talking about new power plants and new nuclear power plants. And let's remember the nuke we were supposed to build with Albania if I wasn't wrong. And suddenly as it went public overnight, it disappeared overnight. So is this the strategy on which Croatia's development should be based? When a prime minister comes to him, he throws himself at promises. And that's how this strategy is written. A little thermal power plant, a little coal, a little gas, a little water and a little wind. And if we weren't able to realize those far fewer projects. I'll just remember to mention "Adria's Company." We know the environmental problem that was, we know that the current prime minister in her presidential campaign went against this project. Today we read that talks with Russia will reactivate the project after 7 years. We're talking about the LNG terminal. We know what the environmental problems are, we know we have to solve them. But for three years, we've been struggling with foreign partners whether our share will be 20% or 25%. So when we get to that 25% as I read, our companies can't agree on what the ratio ratio of the share is going to be between them. And what's the background? The background is they don't have any money for that 25% or 20%. And at the same time, so we can't build a LNG terminal, or participate in construction as a minority partner, and here we're talking about building new thermopower plants, nukes, and I don't know what not. Of course, the strategy says that we may do so with the help of foreign capital. Only then is the question of how independent we will then be what this strategy should provide, which is certainly our goal to all of us. She's both unambitious. At a time of crisis is a time of great turn. We cannot exactly compare ourselves with the United States or the European Union, but at least try to follow them in terms of our size and our numbers. So it's a chance to introduce new technologies, which will then create new jobs, better paid jobs, which will benefit the local community. First of all, I think of renewable energy sources, not as a substitute for this classic, but as a supplement. But we in the strategy of these renewable energy sources, where I don't include hydropotential, have only wind power plants. But here I'm going to reconnect with the lobbyes that wrote this strategy. Wind power plants are pushed because certain interests of people from the country coincided with foreign capital interests, they set off to open these parks. And it would be interesting to see what the price of that electricity is and how much is it going to cost us? And especially when we see or when we see it, because there's probably going to be an affair again, who bought the land by the Adriatic where the planned construction of new wind power plants. And at the same time, there's no solar energy anywhere, or it can be found in the tracks. While the European Union provides tens of billions of euros for the development of these technologies, while one Czech Republic has and we know that it is a little bit north of us four times more capacity than we have now we tap into the dark and thank God we have the sun. And what's going to happen? And solar energy we'll push past this strategy if some people in state structures, HEP structures and foreign capital are found in that area. And then all of a sudden, we're going to evaluate that we should also enter with renewable energy sources in solar technologies, and then we're not going to look back at what the strategy says. And when I say that it's not an environmental issue, that environmental protection is the last concern, then I note that it's not easy to solve interests and wider communities and build new capacities. We're not able to find a dump for regular waste and here we're talking about the possibility of building nukes or thermal power plants on coal. So I'm interested in seeing what localities we're going to build them on and we haven't put any assumptions about going into a serious debate at all if we need it, what we really need, and where we're going to locate it. It's nice to write that we need it, but I'd like to see where it's gonna be. And then to conclude, the strategy should be based on real planning without grandomania to achieve greater energy efficiency, a gradual reorientation towards new technologies and renewable sources as a complement to classical and mental consciousness changes in HEP structures, many of which still live in real socialism. I don't take this negatively but as a neutral determination, when everything measured by tons of steel, coal and the number of hydropower plants opened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40517	Thank you. The replica of Mrs. Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40518	I agree with my colleague Pancic that environmental protection is not easy for those structures that see environmental protection exclusively as a cost and not as an opportunity for development which otherwise became a trend not only in the European Union but also in the United States, so I will mention this again. Green New Deal, which in central terms of spectrum has exactly renewable energy sources as one opportunity actually for a different variant of development than we know today. But I'm saying, you have to have courage, and creativity to put such solutions into strategic solutions, and obviously this set doesn't have it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40519	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40520	You're absolutely right, colleague. It is easier for our structures in HEP and in the country to give up something at the beginning than to adapt to some kind of ecological standards. Let's take the Adria Society. When it is said that the problem of ballast water is which of course costs, it was easier to say we will not, we will give up the Adria Society or the Adria Society, of course there are positive and negative decisions for and against than think about how to satisfy that ecological obstacle of ballast waters. Of course, the investor would have to pay for it, but of course no one wants to pay. Or LNG terminal. No one was against the LNG terminal but we were against the way former Prime Minister Sanader said he would build himself and he said it would build no matter what the environmentalists say. And when the issue of additional environmental protection was raised, suddenly the entire project stopped for a year. Well, a foreign partner wants to come to us to build cheap and make a maximum profit. Let's remember Rockwall in Istria. I remember when environmental associations were setting up this problem and no one was reacting at the time, not even the locals should say. And only when the Danes built that factory of course with standards that they wouldn't certainly build in their Denmark would there be a problem. And as long as we don't change the way we think about it, that ecology isn't a cost, we'll be able to make more money and we'll be where we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40521	Ms. Representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40522	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, Mr. Director, MPs and MPs. Surely this energy strategy is one of the most important documents the Croatian Parliament is discussing this year because the foundation of one country's sovereignty is energy independence. The document that is now in force in my court is not good, has not responded to its challenges and the fact is that we should have developed a new energy strategy. There are various objections in the Croatian public about the strategy we are discussing today. I must mention that many respected experts and the most significant Croatian institutions in the field of energy and economy have been working on the strategy, including a wide range of consultants. So, we can say the strategy was done by all those we consider to be the best in our profession and what Croatian knowledge can offer right now. However, no less important, significant contribution to the creation of a strategy but also in the public debate has been made by different NGOs, independent experts who have also pointed to the gaps that this strategy has, which have expressed their disagreements, who have warned of the uncertainty of the proposed concepts through scenarios that occurred during the development of the strategy. After all, we can say that we have a so - called today. final work Proposal for a strategy for energy development of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to point out from this place that all those who have worked on the strategy must be aware of how much responsibility they have for making this document, but they also cannot exempt us from the representatives and MPs in the adoption of this strategy and our responsibility, as I note that we will be deciding exactly what the next ten years will be spent as much as 15 billion euros planned for investment. The frameworks of the strategy are part of the forecasts within the Croatian energy needs and, of course, the obligations of international contracts such as the Kyoto Agreement, the emission quota trading system within the European Union and the frameworks set before us in line with the acquis of the European Union. The instability in energy markets is only an additional challenge for this strategy to meet its flexibility with the aim of developing a sustainable energy system, which involves security of supply, competitiveness and sustainability of the entire system. It is also important to highlight the focus of the Energy Development Strategy itself on the role of the country in energy, which must be focused on ensuring and exploiting energy sources, as well as on ensuring competitiveness and protection of the environment. Here I will mention only some of the elements of the establishment of the legal framework and the verification of the supply of energy, the creation of reserves, the promotion of energy efficiency. What I would especially like to emphasise is setting high targets related to the share of electricity production, including hydroenergy in total consumption at 35% by 2020. It is very important to mention the plans to reduce direct energy consumption by 10% by 2020 with measures to improve energy efficiency. The objectives and activities of 2020 related to industry, transport, households and services are designed to provide both incentive and restrictive measures. Here I would like to point out the importance of creating a framework within other areas of the economy, social policy and the like that which would indeed feel such measures. Why am I saying that? In fact, to buy a hybrid vehicle in England you can save up to £4,000 in the name of a reduction in environmental compensation, while today in the Republic of Croatia you cannot get any incentive when buying a hybrid vehicle. It is also important here to consider, of course, the impact of tax policy by reducing tax rates or subsidies from the Environmental Protection Fund and energy efficiency on investment in the best available technology, as prescribed at the end of the end and by the Environmental Protection Act and of course by investing in energy efficiency, so that these investments in energy efficiency and cleaner production or transport are paid at an earlier stage. The chapter with projections of direct energy consumption is actually one of the most sensitive areas of the strategy. Wrong starting parameters can lead to wrong conclusions and wrong conclusions to wrong investments, and wrong investments to the failure of the energy system due to its unsustainableness. The projections shown in this chapter show a country that expects significant economic growth which is logical to expect and which, of course, is both the heart and the eye are comfortable to see, and for this economic growth, an adequate supply of energy is needed. However, these shows were present during the construction of energy capacities in Western Europe during the 1970s when most nuclear power plants were built with all resistances. I note here that only a competitive energy price can provide good economic growth rates and that, if it is missing, so it is uncompetitive, that the negative balance sheet will have to be replaced in another way or by budgetary expenditure or by reducing tax burdens in order to keep the economy competitive. The price can be competitive if all the electricity produced can be sold and sold, i.e. if the capacities meet the needs. Based on these projections, the need for a strategy, with the initial ratios of the benchmarks from 2000 to 2006, is projected to increase direct electricity consumption from 4.1% in all energy efficiency measures, from 3.7% to 2020. Regarding the above, and through the strategy of building new production capacities, we return again in the 1970s, England, Germany and France when, as a universal solution to those problems of rapid economic growth, coal and uranium were recognized as energy. In this part, our strategy, of course, appears to be somewhat outdated, without fresh ideas, with the exception of the introduction of cogeneration plants and centralized heat systems. For comfort, they look similar, for example. English strategic documents with one difference that England has both coal and companies dealing with the production of parts for nuclear power plants and educated personnel to work in these nuclear power plants, while Croatia does not. And my view is that the Croatian nuclear power plant does not need anything and I absolutely oppose such a scenario. I would like to remind you that the Strategy and the Programme of Spatial Planning of the Republic of Croatia brought by the Parliament excludes the planning of the nuclear power plant by 2015. Furthermore, the duration of the nuclear power plant is at least 30 years, which means that from planning to the end of the use and disposal of the plant, the agony of the risk plant in the neighborhood in environmental damage does not want to provide any insurance company in the world for at least 50 years. However, each kuna invested in the nuclear programme raises the question of eligibility for the next kuna investment because it is then ex ante, without additional investment, in vain. Of course, we have experience with such projects in Croatia, although the rich experiences of the University Hospital or Dinam Stadium which are the most expensive such projects in Europe and are not yet completed. I therefore appeal here to the energy strategy promoters to see European countries such as Denmark that does not have or wants a nuclear option, and in its strategic objectives there is a 100% settlement of energy needs from renewable energy sources, while other systems such as gas power plants represent only auxiliary systems if needs are greater. Such a vision of development has opened up in the country new ideas aimed at fostering energy efficiency and developing small systems for electricity production, including technology development, its storage by establishing clear legal frameworks and liberalisation of the energy market, with the planned opening of 30 to 40 thousand new jobs, and to remind Denmark has 5.5 million inhabitants. And speaking of renewable energy sources whose use I strongly support, they are mentioned in the strategy at the very end, though in the whole chapter, but still in the end. Unfortunately, I must mention that their share in the direct energy consumption sectors in 2020 is relatively small and I believe that significant incentives in this segment and the genuine opening of the market to different small producers can significantly increase the share of renewable energy sources and increase their competitiveness in the energy market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40523	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Representative Mirel Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40524	Dear fellow Members, it is doubtless that today we are discussing an extremely important strategic document, but what is the responsibility of the authors of the strategy best seen from the fact that today this document, I would say one of the three most important strategic documents in the Republic of Croatia does not generally defend Resolute Minister Damir Polancec. Which is why I don't know. I think it is in any case the neglect of the Parliament, but perhaps the escape of the responsibility of the author of the strategy from this document itself, because it is certain that such a document as it has been presented to us and as it has been in the procedure for several months will not cause much public approval.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40525	Replica reply, Ms. Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40526	Dear colleagues Holly, I don't think that anything less important is the Secretary of State and the Director who, as experts, have been in charge and worked intensively on this strategy and I don't think the presence of Deputy Prime Minister Polancec would change anything. What seems important to me to point out that all those who worked on the strategy are truly aware of their own responsibilities, because I agree with you this is one of the most important documents the Croatian Parliament brings. In addition to the high cost of implementing such a single capacity building document, it is also long-term, as it dates back to 2030. I therefore think that it is not a crucial question of who is here today and who is not, but that all those who have drawn up the strategy are aware of their responsibilities for the document that they propose, but also that we MPs who decide on all these investments and about the direction in which Croatia will go when we talk about the energy sector are also aware of our own responsibilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40527	Thank you. We still have three five minutes of club debates. The first club of national minorities, Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40528	Honorable Vice President, Your Honors Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The National Minorities Club for justifiable reasons couldn't take part in the morning debate, so let me just say our position briefly in 5 minutes. Normally, we support everything that goes in favour of the security of energy supply, the competitiveness of the energy system, which will certainly go in favour of its sustainability. We must certainly be aware that energy consumption will grow despite all our efforts and despite all the guidance that energy needs to be saved, that energy efficiency needs to be worked out. We remain on the point that we do not have enough energy, that we are still importing more than 50% of our energy. And that's why I wouldn't be talking here on behalf of the club about what energy we support or which we don't support, because every energy we always have to admit, or every energy source has both positive and negative sides. When we analyzed what it was actually energy derived from the nukes, many just looking at possible incidents we were all against here. But I always analyze what the world does. If almost 500 nukes work in the world today, if the world truly supports nuclear energy as the purest of times, as energy that can truly provide certain security of supply. On the other hand, we know that we can't measure ourselves today with the technology Chernobyl has, that today exactly technologies of protection, and also the technology of storage of waste itself, have far advanced, then I don't see why we shouldn't open that possibility through the strategy, and that for sure, the future of 4.5 years it will take us to prepare one such construction in general, one such nuclear energy, for sure it will be much clearer then. We talked, some of us, and again when we talked at the club, some of us were about to support the coal thermal power plants anyway. And here, it's been determined that the coal thermoelectric power plant is also an import energy, because we don't have it, it's a major environmental pollutant. On the other hand, we must also say that today there are technologies that will certainly show that both the power plant or I don't know the source of that energy can be very clean. Of course, what we most advocate is exactly renewable energy sources, those sources that I say domestically, or on our domestic soil, have a Syrian base, or have their own source base. Perhaps it is indeed the biggest regret that in renewable sources too few places have been given to exploit the sun's energy. We know that Croatia, in certain parts of Croatia, has more than 2,000 hours of sunshine per year, which should certainly be taken into account with certain incentives, which European countries that have far less sunbeams today encourage just to at least host and one large part focus on solar energy. We kind of predicted it less. When it comes to the renewable wind source, just as one part of us is for, one against, and one already sees the accident in the big lobbys when the wind power plants started. Let's remember what happened when the first three wind power plants were built on Pag. We've seen from the fact that it's harmful to the environment, we're going to kill birds, to break the atmosphere, etc. After all, we see that in one part and this energy source can be used and it is enough to go to Austria, to go to the three-way between Austria, Hungary, Slovakia and to see that much energy can also be provided in that part. Therefore, I see that the light has turned on, and I think that all forms of energy should be supported because 20 percent by 2020 will not be able to provide Europe, especially those of us who are coughing and who are going later, and therefore let us not limit ourselves to any source. Let us try to make maximum use of it with as little damage to the environment as possible, and with as much energy efficiency and as many positive effects as possible. The National Minority Club will support the strategy, with little regrets.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40529	Thank you. SDP club, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40530	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the MPs, the SDP club will not support the draft energy development strategy of the Republic of Croatia. The reasons for that are next. Number 1 – The basic assumptions for the development of the strategy are not correctly established. For the past 2 years, there has been a severe Croatian crisis that has not been envisaged by the strategy at all and which has essentially come up with this strategy in the debate, so there is no proper assumptions for the development of the strategy. Number 2 – The draft new strategy is not fully in line with the strategy of the marketable development of the Republic of Croatia from February 2009, with the Energy Act of the Republic of Croatia and also with the draft National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia. Number 3 – The assessment of energy consumption is excessively high in the draft strategy. Far more than we've had in the years 2002, 2007 and 2008 results, not to mention the 2009 projections. That way, our strategy will be overcharged, our strategy will be simply pre-named, so we'll have unnecessary mastodons. So I guess that's why the strategy was assessed with a value of 15 billion euros. The macroeconomic impact of this strategy is neither high-quality nor presented to the public. We are not at all able to assess what will have the macroeconomic effects of this strategy on the external trade deficit? On the responsibility of the Republic of Croatia and in general on the energy dependence of the Republic of Croatia. 5 – The new strategy is highly import-oriented. Import energies of coal, gas, nuclear fuel are favored. Unfortunately, import technologies, import equipment, import equipment installers are favored. Thus, a total oversaw of 15 billion euros in favour of foreigners, not domestic economic industries. 6 – The revitalisation of existing thermal power plants has been neglected and the possibility of spending only 30% on existing thermal power plants instead of 100%. 7 – The Croatian nuclear power plant does not need and should not be defined in the strategy. 8 – The public debate on the draft strategy in 2008, 2009 showed a huge number of objections from the professional public and civil society of the Republic of Croatia that are not respected at all in the debate process and the strategy has not changed in any part under the influence of these remarks. 9 – not enough on energy efficiency elements to reduce energy consumption in some way. And 10 – for Croatia it is important that the potentials of the renewed sources of the Republic of Croatia are defined in the 1990s, unfortunately in this strategy not taken seriously enough, not seriously accepted and presented. Those are the reasons and I mean quite enough to be serious and reject this document.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40531	Thank you. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40532	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is a colleague and colleagues today we have had the opportunity to hear a whole series of debates on this subject and it is quite certain and this whole final on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club I would start with one definition we heard from fellow Jurcic, and that is the energy most expensive when it is gone. That's what we felt. Gas, a gas shortage caused 2 billion damage to the economy, the European Commission warns again something will happen in Croatia. If there's anything going on here, we don't know. My question in the current prime minister's class and I expect an answer, she promised it, we'll see. However, the danger is still ahead of us. Therefore, the fact that when we talk about this strategy, the government has clearly taken a firm political commitment to... the region. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the question is, how sure are we in this strategy? All of us, both sides. How sure are we of her? Secondly, is this strategy just a political issue, not a matter of profession, a question of economic and social development of our entire society? That's the key question. The fact that I will repeat what I said on behalf of the club in the introduction instead of the Government of the Republic of Croatia instead of implementing a whole series of concrete projects under an existing strategy that we have not heard a word about, about implementation, is a logical conclusion that by opening this debate, the government is creating an impression in the public that it is trying to do something in the energy crisis even if the government is creating an alibi for the fact that almost nothing has been done in the past 5 years in energy. That's the facts. Renewable sources, they're said a lot. I'll give you one piece of information that I got during the day. First, 350 million kuna is currently unallocated in the Croatian Power Market Operator for the subsidisation of renewable energy producers. 50 million euros is unscheduled, he doesn't know who. Because we don't have producers from renewable energy sources. I'm talking about solar energy, at the state level we have a limit of 1 megawatt. So up to one megawatt of installed power through photonatonic modules at the level of the entire state can, the manufacturer can get the status of a privileged electricity producer. He can't go beyond that. How much is one megawatt? Unlike wind power plants that are at 780 megawatts or 760. Another information, at this point recently, the European Association of Photovoltaic Industry in Hamburg has provided 3 data. Solar energy will be covered by 12% in the European Union by 2020. In 2008, 130 thousand workers worked directly and 60 thousand indirectly in the solar industry. The estimate of a million and 400 million workers in 2020, and 2030, as many as 2.2 million workers. And another very interesting thing and I'm especially glad that I had the chance to read it, today by looking at the page... at renewable energy sources there is one quote from Edison in '916, and I quote, "You need to know how to use the forces of nature and thus get all the energy you need." Sun rays are a form of energy, wind and sea current are also energy, are we using them? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We burn forests and coals like tenants are burning down the front door of our heating house. We live as wild settlers who don't realize that these treasures belong to all of us. How much renewable energy is represented in this strategy? We heard through the debate today. And the final club of the Croatian People's Party will not support the adoption of this strategy. First, an analysis of the existing situation needs to be carried out, an analysis of the existing situation, the situation in the overall energy sector and long-term objectives to be defined. This strategy doesn't speak. And crucial in the end. And if we adopt this strategy, who will implement it? Who? Well done, Ministry employees, good job. They're trying. But every orchestra is as good as a good conductor. Do we have a conductor at the Ministry of Economy? He's given us a gas crisis and a half-empty warehouse. We have a gas crisis ahead of us again, apparently. Shipyards, Podravka, and now I'm not counting any further. Therefore, our biggest reserve is to change what is wrong. Is it just him or the whole government, about that? But the opinion of the Croatian People's Party is that the state's greatest potential is to change the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40533	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Tamara Obradović Mazal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40534	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. Indeed in the shortest lines and without some ambition to repeat numbers and actually by exhibiting some arguments, one short summary. First, thank you absolutely everyone for the debate. And this is part of a public debate that has been held for 4 months around this strategy and this is an opportunity for our public to see and the responsibility that stands out of this strategy and through our debate whether I am with you today or not. It's what we're talking about, what we're talking about. We're talking about our energy future and security. Once again I would like to repeat someone's very wise words spoken just before, which is that we need to be open to all the potentials we have, we need to be open to energy sources and be aware of their advantages and weaknesses. And don't fall into the glorification column just one versus of the other. Because absolutely all energy sources have their own negative side. Maybe it looks at the fact that we don't have our own production for it, so 50 million euros simply don't have anyone to give. And let's be open and honest and let's say for ourselves that 20% of the total share of our energy potentials, we want to raise in the next 11 years as far as renewable energy sources are concerned. But let's also say for ourselves, that hand in hand we must have science and economy and encourage our own production and create our own experts. Because tomorrow in the use of solar energy or wind energy that we want and which in the strategy exists, and which in the financing strategy itself will be represented in 15 billion euros, because 60% will go into the electricity system. Of course, if they're interested and investors. But out of that 60%, the high percentage goes to renewable energy sources. But tomorrow we have to introduce that technology. This technology is expensive. In the end, she might be cleaner, she might be the favorites of something that's just being restored. But let's be open and honest and say we're importing that technology tomorrow, importing it. We've heard a lot of counter-imports, but we don't have a choice. At this point, we don't have our own domestic production. And we need to reach out for that import. So we have both wind and storm, although we don't have much use for it and the sun, but we don't have our 100%, we can't take 100% capacity. And that's why the energy mix is a common denominator and a guarantee of our energy security. And in January of this year, we were rescued by a mule. As long as he retreats and we know he's retreating, but in January he saved us and the mule among other things. And therefore, as Councilwoman Chuhnil said, let's not disqualify any source, because one can fail, one will take over the other. And that's the point of an energy mix that we as a country are aware of our capacity and size, but also of the economic power and of the simple investment we have at our disposal, we have to objectively look at it. And in this segment here is no further entry at the end of this truly windy day, thank you all for looking back at the strategy. It's just a strategy. It's one framework that gives us guidance on further investments over the next 11 years. After this strategy, what is above all important goes a concrete programme. There goes a program that develops all energy sources, goes a program that has its own hologram, which paves the way for detailing this strategy. And I think it's an announcement of a programme like this by the end of this year, that it's more important to discuss as well as this strategy. Thanks to everyone, I hope once again that if nothing else today has contributed to the public debate on issues such as energy and its importance for Croatia. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40535	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40536	Thank you very much. So I want to correct Mrs. Secretary of State's allegations that we don't have the technology to manufacture. She's in a very nice and logical way trying to defend something that's indefensible. However, I want to say very clearly, and probably the secretary of state knows that at this point we have four productions of photovoltaic modules in Croatia. But I also want to say, and it has already been said through the debate today that this strategy is part of other strategies, so if we're going to have one quality industrial strategy, if we're going to invest in the development of technology for the use of renewable sources, then we're certainly going to be able to use these renewable sources.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40537	I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item. Proposal for a Strategy for Energy Development of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the proposal from the working bodies, I am voting on the proposal for a Strategy for Energy Development of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. I find that with 73 votes for and 1 abstention and 30 against the proposed strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40540	Thank you. Mr. President, Madam Representative, gentlemen of the Parliament. I will show this year's report in just a few short lines, but before I begin, let me thank all the parliamentary representatives and the parliamentary committee for their support of the National Science Foundation so far. And this is my last report so that I expect to be relieved of my board membership soon, so with this report, I would give a brief review of what we have done in these four years, because this year the foundation is entering a phase of intensive transformation that will be very demanding and will require your support. The Foundation had the support of the Parliament, had the support of the parliamentary committee as well as those of several discussions we had over the past years, so they showed clear commitment and support to the Parliament and education and science. However, our indicators are not good and I think it will be necessary in the next period of even greater your support. The main problem we have experienced through our work is that our institutions and our researchers are not competitive enough, they are not changing quickly, especially the university, and I would like to see that a policy is created that will further encourage those who are changing faster. At this point, politics does not encourage institutions to change, especially those that change rapidly. The national science report has tried to introduce European standards into our research space and has tried to be the same as all European foundations. That's why over the past year we've been working intensively on the internationalization of the foundation. And as you know last year we became a member of the European Foundation for Science, we have been intensively involved in the activities and programmes of the European Molecular Biologists' Association EMBO, and we have associated with the Japanese Science Foundation. And what is probably the most demanding and most important thing we have done is to create some kind of coalition between the related organisations of 11 countries from Estonia to Romania, Central and Eastern Europe to create one space for international evaluation and evaluation of projects and to create a sufficient number of scientists to carry out international evaluations. Of course, all the time we insisted on the evaluation process and competence. And what our results have shown in these four years is that there is still competitiveness and this means the competitiveness of research outside of Zagreb is too small and too small. Of the 241 projects we have approved and funded over the past four years, around 160 projects are from the Zagreb area or in the Zagreb area, 33 projects are from Rijeka, 20 projects from Split, 23 projects from Osijek, 3 projects from Zadar and only 2 projects from Dubrovnik. So, out of the total of 45 million kunas that we have shared through projects over 60% ended up in Zagreb again simply because the absorption power of Zagreb and Zagreb researchers is greater than in other research centres and we think it is necessary to design additional financial instruments in order to increase absorption capacity beyond Zagreb. Also, our results over the past four years have shown that there is a huge difference in absorption capacity between researchers of different areas, so that out of 200 projects 95 are projects obtained by researchers from natural sciences, 36 projects from biomedical sciences, 30 from technical, 22 from social, 16 from humanistic and 12 biotechnical sciences. So, of the 211 projects, almost half of them were essentially chosen by natural science researchers, and this shows essentially a picture of the competitiveness and competence of our researchers, and this clearly indicates that policies should be further developed in terms of raising the competitiveness of other research areas. So far, that's the situation. In this year, the foundation started with a transformation it had also inaugurally inaugurally inauguration the amendments to the Foundation Act. The transformation will be quite complex because it is expected to virtually shift the funding of all competitive research to the foundation. In practice, this actually means further insistence on development or on the development of an evaluation process. Unfortunately, in this year we have had a little delay in developing this initiative of 11 European countries in a common evaluation area but we believe that there is no other way to develop research in Croatia but through financial instruments and through competition. Therefore, I ask you not to allow the foundation in the next period to actually turn into what was once a self-administrative interest community, so SIZ and that the funds are not allocated by quotas but solely by the results of the competition and competition. We think that what we started through several financial instruments that we have developed, we think that special attention and additional financial instruments should be directed towards the development of doctoral studies because doctoral studies, doctoral research are not sufficiently encouraged in Croatia at the moment, and we think that this is one of the most strategic weak development points in Croatia. So, Croatia lacks people with research competence, and we believe that additional efforts and policies and, of course, funding are needed to achieve a doctoral study in Europe, but in order to increase the number of PhDs in Croatia. We don't have a doctorate right now, or a doctorate, or for the needs of higher education, let alone for the development of a knowledge-based economy. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40541	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Mr. Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40542	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Rector, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. On 23 September, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the work of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia for the past year, which was delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Management Board of the National Foundation. The committee discussed the issue as a parent working body. The introductory explanation was submitted by the rapporteur of the report. The Committee is familiar with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 22 September 2009 on the issue proposed by the Croatian Parliament to accept the report. The National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia in 2008 acted in unchanged circumstances under which it was established in December 2001 and in this form acted until major structural changes introduced by the Health Act 2009. With a modest annual income from own funds investments and no additional budget support in the 2008 report, the Foundation had expenditures of 11 and 6 million kuna, which mostly amounted to the cost of payment of project funds. These funds were approved through competitions in already known programmes, such as the inflow of brains, cost-senior programmes, after this support to returnees, the establishment of support, then the education of PhDs, the partnership programmes in the basic research of economic operators. Furthermore, sociocultural transition programmes from industrial to knowledge society, measures to support the involvement of Croatian scientists in the European Science Foundation programme and other international projects, as already discussed by the rapporteur. These programmes in the past and earlier years can be assessed as a carefully elaborated way of supporting scientists in the process of training them, returning to Croatia or including international exchanges of experiences. This creates human and organisational preconditions for future successful work on projects. Given the fact that recent changes in the position and role of the national foundation have significantly changed the focus of its work, it is now time to stress that the new and responsible role of the foundation, a direct, direct concern about the financing of scientific and research projects, should not be questioned so far by the Foundation's programmes. So far, the nominally small, but in fact precious national foundation incentive programmes, such attention must still be worth it. In particular, the debate pointed out the circumstance that in the last three years, the state budget had not allocated budgets in favour of the trust, and in accordance with the law which obliged that within a certain period of time from that source of the trust, it had to acquire proper basic property. So far, the special tasks of the foundation in this year are moving towards funding scientific research projects at all. The budget ratio to the foundation will be assessed in the future according to new criteria. The Committee welcomes the expectation that the state budget will provide resources for all the core activities of the Foundation, means not only for new ones but for all the fundamental activities of the Foundation, as established by the legislative amendments giving the Foundation a fundamental role in the financing of scientific and research work. It is also estimated that the situation under which scientific and research areas were unequally represented, and particularly neglected art, should be removed when the foundation's administrative bodies were restructured and constructed in the new composition. This objective should be achieved through the implementation of the provisions of the Law on the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development, which determine that the Croatian Parliament appoints members of the Management Board of the National Foundations on the proposal of precisely established applicants. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously concluded: "The Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to accept the report on the work of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia for 2008. a year." The committee also expressed its gratitude for his work and the former head of the foundation chosen for his new duty, Professor Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40543	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Happy Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40544	My colleagues and colleagues. The Foundation was founded in 2001 with the intention of being a stepping up institution in science and higher education of the Republic of Croatia, to manage the principle of excellence and to do what the ministry cannot do, which is actually experimenting with science and higher education, such as those sectors that should contribute most to development and especially a new development cycle in Croatia. The funds for the foundation were accumulated during that period, and the foundation actually started operating in 2004, in full in 2005. The Foundation is therefore still the best thing that is happening in science in the Republic of Croatia, but as has already been said in part in the report, it has not fulfilled one part of our expectations that I am now going to talk about. I will talk much more about what has not been done, and we think it should be done, but about what has been done, because it speaks well enough for itself. First, we warned in the report last year, both on the board and on the plenary board, that the main bodies of the foundation, and the board of directors are in fact making key decisions and practically manages the way the foundation works, that therefore the administrative bodies of the foundation as regards the areas are very disproportionately established and that this should be changed. This year we have another weight more on the page disproportionate than it was last year, because I remind you that there are six scientific and research areas in Croatia and three artistic areas. Half of the board is represented by people from biomedical sciences, no one from the art field. The State Secretary, unfortunately, answers warnings about the unsustainability of such a situation, the Secretary of State for Science, on several occasions from this speaker, that the staff structure of the foundation is a reflection of the real situation in the scientific and research sector. That's the answer we repeatedly answer that it's an unhealthy state, that it's a serious deformity that doesn't just deserve, but that has to go into serious recovery. Despite all these warnings and demands to change this and also the staff structure of the National Science Foundation Management Board, this has not been done so far. The Foundation by my court and our court should certainly be the place and science in the entire Republic of Croatia in which the areas will be evenly represented and which, wherever possible, will function synergically in their activities. We still have one major problem with personnel at the National Science Foundation. Some areas that prove to be particularly deficiting in projects are not represented by prominent and influential members, but in fact almost completely unknown. This is not considered a good policy nor for such scientific research areas, nor for a foundation that we expected as an organization for strategic steps around it to bring together the best, most capable, and yet the most agile, so that people from the areas they represent will succeed. And finally, it was also said at the board of directors, I'm sorry at the board's session it's unsimpatisfactory that last year's report is submitted by a person who can no longer represent a foundation, regardless of all his merits. Because the Foundation Act makes it impossible, so forgive the university and university officials, so to the managers and as public institute managers to be in the management bodies of the foundation. The answer will of course be, but a man submits a report for the period when he was president. This is not a personal report, it is an institutional report and we believe that an institutional report should be submitted by a person who manages the foundation and in accordance with the positive laws of the Republic of Croatia. So much for human resources issues. The situation with people in science in the Republic of Croatia, I will repeat myself I think for the third time from this pay phone, is quite dramatic. If the sciences in the Republic of Croatia are managed by four persons by the Minister, State Secretary of Science, President of the National Science Council and President of the Management Board of the National Science Foundation, it is extremely illegal for the academic and scientific community, and it is politically unacceptable that all four people from one single research area, we have six in Croatia, we have three artistic areas. And that's what we've been warning you for over a year, nothing changes. With the election of the new minister, the situation has not changed. The situation is more dramatic that three-quarters of the four are employed by one single institution, a higher education institution in the country. And yet the situation doesn't change anything. And we continue to think that such a situation is unsustainable, that such a situation is simply highly illegal and that it is politically inadmissible, and on you colleagues and colleagues from the ruling structures as a whole and in part on us and it is scientific that we are changing this situation. I repeat that about the National Science Foundation report, because it reproduces exactly that structure. The Business Review points to another regrettable fact that is not directly responsible for the trust and its management, but is responsible for the state and we are part of it, which is that the foundation operates on the basis of its initial accumulated assets, all six years or five years. Only one year did the Ministry of Science invest in a minimum fund, for the past three years it has not invested a single kuna and thus contradicted its own statements by ministry officials that the foundation is tremendously significant and strategic. But just as ministry officials did not respond to our warning, no public record of any efforts by the management of the foundation to raise funds from the regular state budget has been made. I say it in public. Were there any internal conversations about it, I don't know, but if there were them, they would have ended up different on a regular basis. But when we look at the foundation's business, then I'd say that in the project's analysis right now, there's a lot more routine than strategic steps. Page 8, I'll read you some. Doctoral studies. Quality assurance. Integrated university, learning outcomes. I think the learning outcomes are one of the basic settings of the Bologna process. Quality assurance is one of the key levers in which high schools should operate in the Bologna process, and not only in the Bologna process. The integrated university was a legal obligation. So these are the jobs to be run by the ministry, i.e. the State in charge of law enforcement. And so, in part, instead of strategically innovative step-out activities, the foundation has devoted itself to the fact that the lack of initiative from the ministry and its budget is being patched up. So we also warn of this information as the need for the foundation to turn far more to its original mission than to do those jobs. It is great that the foundation has jumped in where the ministry has failed, but it is not good that the ministry has failed and it is not good that the foundation has worked for several years, not just one or two, pointing to the ministry that it has all been missed. And finally on page 18, there's one piece of information that worries me a lot, which somehow didn't get the right weight in the report. It's about partner projects, i.e. the projects of colleagues and colleagues financed by the Foundation and by the economy. So, even the ratio of funding can be 90 by the trust, so 10% by the economy, below it can't go, but these are projects that should have connected the economy and science i.e. which should lead to new technologies, or perhaps new products, and thus run development cycles. These projects are falling terribly, so in 2008, there were only two candidates for projects. And I therefore feel that the management of the foundation and the ministry should also be concerned about the situation because the foundation is also a foundation for technology, so the technological development of the Republic of Croatia, and the ministry also has a description of the activities. We just heard about the energy strategy that without proper scientific efforts, there will be no innovation in the energy field. So we can say that for everyone and therefore it seems to us that the foundation should take much more care of strategic innovations than about the usual almost daily jobs, especially those that fall within the domain of the ministry. And from that point of view, we're a little concerned about the future of the foundation. We are concerned about the reasons we have stated, we are concerned that the foundation is taking on one very important function and a very significant duty, so a great task is that neither the foundation nor the ministry have responded to a whole series of our warnings and because it seems to us that in one part of the foundation has not been sufficiently dedicated to innovation as a matter of fact and international cooperation, but only one part. The more we look at the Progress Report, which was published on page 59-60 yesterday, we can read a lot of commendable sentences about how Croatian science is progressing and how Croatian education and culture is progressing, and we hope that we will not deny this report with our own acts, but not because Europeans will not knock us out, but rather in order to make us feel better. In this sense, I also thank the current chairman of the Board of Directors for all its efforts and all its actions, these are our critical remarks on what we believe to be either not good or not good enough, and we point out that in the future development of the foundation it will take over this original mission and that it will be much more innovative and excellent to say, therefore, manage excellence, finance only exceptions, only peaks, what exists in Croatian science and higher education, and not some routine jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40545	Thank you. HDZ representative club, Mr Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40546	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, Mr. Lucin, Mr. Representatives and Madam Representatives. Well, I don't think everything's so catastrophic about the foundation. I will just remind you of the debate we had on the occasion of the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the National Foundation for Science and Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia seems to me in April or here in the first half of this year. This is important to say because this document, or in 2008, the foundation did not work on these changes, which means that the whole system is developing and getting other contours. It would only remind you that the aim of the amendment and addition of the law at the time was to strengthen the National Foundation for Science and Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia as a quality implementation of scientific, technological policy for a key step in strengthening Croatia as a knowledge-based country, so a very complex process that fits into a single syntax. It is about modernising the science funding system in Croatia, which leads it from transition to an example of countries that have developed science and a strong link between scientific research with society and economy, such as Switzerland, Germany, Austria, the Netherlands. The truth is that in Croatian society, the results of science are not sufficiently used in designing or projecting everything we can do. There's still great potential and reserves for our society. The money she then accepted was the financing of excellent scientific projects from the state budget through an independent and professional foundation. This is the first time public funding of scientific activities is entrusted to an independent institution that is guided exclusively by criteria of expertise, scientific excellence and rigorousity and national research priorities, which solves all the meaning of the last foundation. And indeed with this 2008 move, we discuss when we all have already made steps further, and I hope that the next report is going to be even more qualitative. It should be said that the foundation started funding scientific projects in 2004 and since then created assumptions for the integration of European standards into the evaluation, monitoring and financing of research projects and scientists. It's a very complex mechanism and a system to work on and it's certainly not possible to go out overnight on the best stage if I may say so. Such a system promotes the personal responsibility of scientists through contractual obligations, is based on professional evaluation of applications, according to the criterion of scientific rigorousity and encourages strengthening and rejuvenation of the research population. But for all of these reasons, one system is shaped in a way that speaks, and this report can say that the HDZ Club will vote in favour of this report. More than that, when the report is read well what I think is important for us MPs, but also for the public during 2008 only the continuation of what was drawn out in 2004 when the strategic plan being implemented and this should be said to be implemented quite strictly. There are some points in which perhaps less funds have been invested as it is, and later I will look back on a concrete programme. But if we are talking about specific goals such as supporting higher education reform, then it was not, if we are talking about supporting reform of doctoral studies, too, if we are talking about education of PhDs and subdoctors, then supporting networking and profiling of institutions, it was also, then creating intellectual property and technology transfer systems, then including the European Science Foundation programme and supporting scientific teams. This was all done and the system itself is very demanding and it must be acknowledged that the entire scientific academic community should adapt to that, that it is not a small thing. I'll show you a few examples here. In 2008, an electronic application system was made for projects, yet it is a remarkable step. Second. I must say, especially support for higher education reform, too. And on the other hand, when it comes to the flow of brains, and we know that we have a lot of problems in that field, mostly learned people left Croatia. So one attempt to stop the process and bring back to life. It's also visible from the data here that in 2008, perhaps in some parts like economics, it was a little thin unlike other years. But let's just say, like Project Senior, there was nothing going on either, so there was no activity. A subdoctor of the training of candidates who had recently obtained a PhD in science, there was exceptional activity and it should be underlined. The decline was, however, supported scientists returnees and scientists abroad. I don't know why, but there's one obvious drop, pretty much compared to what those funds were looking for. I may have the wrong information, but here's what I think. Constitutional support is a visible one programme activity. The establishment of support enables faster establishment of a quality independent research career of young scientists. Which is extremely important. Like a doctor's education, a PhD scholarship. They can also say that the main objectives of the programme are to increase research standards, raise the quality of doctoral studies and promote international mobility of young researchers during doctoral studies, through the Scholarship for PhD. The way I see it, the item here is extremely high, like, a million and 242 thousand kunas 235. Then national courses and summer schools for PhDs. So entering into the European space of science is not very simple or easy. But I believe that the foundation helps and does and gives its efforts. A partnership in basic research. Also, as the figures here say for 2006, the seventh year, the eighth year, are the million-digit figures that are invested in this. With the foundation providing 70% of the funds and partners 30%. So it's such a system when it comes to partnership in basic research. It means increasing the extra budget share in investment in basic research. Of course it's a little bit and of course there's a big space to go on. But the process needs to be opened and the foundation opened those processes. I could still give very many examples of what the foundation was doing during 2008, but I chose only some highlights here. And I would like to say about international activity, which is particularly important to praise and point out, and these are international experiences during 2008 and successes. I believe that this success must not be silenced, but should be underlined, which is from January 1, 2008. The National Foundation for Science has become a full member of the European Science Foundation, allowing for the achievement of all the rights that members of the European Science Foundation are exercising, as well as participation in the process of making decisions relating to the development of science in the European context. I think it's a very important success. That all the scientists of the Republic of Croatia will be able to enter this space, but it needs to be adapted and all procedures need to be perfected. And I think it's important that this happened. The National Science Foundation also actively participated in the European Research Careers Network in 2008. The network is linked to over 40 European organisations financing research by the European Commission's ministries and representatives. Which is also very interesting. One special activity took place where the foundation had contacts with and a number of workshops with Japanese scientific institutions during 2008, which tried to expand one experience in the scientific field of cooperation. I could mention more, as is the "5 Tempus" project that two of which were completed last year, and the rest continue during this year. So, not to read and elaborate now, but I believe that these experiences are extremely important and useful and that this should also be added to the reason in 2008. And with regard to internal quality assurance as I mentioned that during 2008, the EPP system for electronic project application was released. As I've already mentioned. The system is designed to enable users to register easily and quickly. Also created is the evaluator base, so those who can evaluate projects and very quickly and useful in one efficient way. And that base and the efficiency of evaluation seems to be two deadlines in one year, twice, which is one model. We must also remember that the foundation was presented in public, participated in various gatherings. So that her work is popularized and she understands more in Croatian society than it is about. Then, cooperation with other institutions with which much has also been done. That's all in the report we have very precisely shown. And in the end, I can't help but conclude that as much as we may be unhappy, we can accept that part of the criticism, perhaps in polarising certain personnel coming from one circle, from one area. I'd agree with that, and that's where we need to be flexible. Because there may be a conflict of interest in one side, if I may say so. We need to be correct, and that's where we need to be more careful. But the project is new, the project is young and will certainly be built. The National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia has achieved a number of significant results in the development of systems, financing scientific projects based on the principles of excellence over the past 5 years. And there, surely, with all of these, we can call it perhaps even children’s diseases to be indicated. It will certainly be in the next period and as I began at the beginning of my debate and with the legal changes that have been made we have the right to expect an even better result for 2009. For all these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40547	Thank you. Club of representatives of the CNS Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40548	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished representatives of the foundation, ministries, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party club has always supported the foundation since its draft in 2001 until today, we have always advocated that it is funded in an adequate and stable way to realise the objectives for which it was established. And this time, most members of the HNS club will support the report, and I will refrain from it. I'll explain why. In 2001, and years after that, I often spoke with Professor Lucin about the foundation and the objectives for which the foundation was established. Let me just read you two sentences. "We established a national press for science, higher education and technological development of the Republic of Croatia with the purpose of promoting science, higher education and technological development of the Republic of Croatia and", now the most important part is "with a fundamental goal of ensuring economic development and fostering employment." Economic development and promotion of employment. 25 minutes ago, we closed the debate at the previous point of the Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia. From the government's representative we heard clearly no technology, no own production, no employment, no exports. My colleagues and colleagues, we hear it at every point when we talk about any form of development strategy. You have to agree with me, we keep saying that. A colleague named Flego listed a series of shortcomings. I don't want to repeat myself agreeing completely with you but I'm just going to connect with a few more thoughts that you can actually see what makes me think that we all have to do more and better in this area. If we go through just the report here we go from the program, that's where it starts. Of the 417 project proposals reported for funding, 196 projects were approved, so about 48%. And then it clearly states that the status of the projects and the approved means that the evaluation will eventually change which is correct to more or lower depending on the results of the project itself. But what we're missing and we're always missing and on our round table we've tried to provoke a debate in that direction and we haven't been able to get answers, is next. In fact, if the foundation is founded with the fundamental objective of economic development and employment, then we need to know how and how the triangle works between the economy, politics, scientific teaching institutions and scientific educational institutions, we need to know how this triangle works. We need to know how often Mr. Lucin sits with the minister, with the President of the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce with people clearly from other structures to see in which direction we essentially target the funds, the relatively modest assets of the foundation, but 40 million is not insignificant. We scientists know that right now in the European Union there are ideas about next year's competition. He's talking to scientists. He's talking to economics. You cannot contact yourself in Brussels for any competition or with any project, with any purpose but with a clearly defined objective of development and with these economic branches. We turn out to be richer than Brussels. Often, the ministry has so far funded countless projects that have little or no impact on the country's development. I agree there's no need to underestimate anyone, but it has to be a priority. I as a young scientist when I was in France exactly knew the Minister of Science in France and year said genetic engineering,... fibers and semiconductors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I've said it a hundred times to this Parliament, and I'll do it again. The next minister came with the following priorities, a third minister with third priorities knowing exactly what the country needs and its economy at the moment. We could never get an answer in that sense from anyone in this country. We could never get an answer. I don't think that's good. I think that's where we have to make big moves. The same colleagues and colleagues turn the pages. We'll come up with studio funding models. I agree, it's great to help students of weaker property so they can get involved in a high education system, excellent. But whether they're going to study medicine, biochemistry, English language or something third, fourth, fifth, if there are any priorities. I'm asking if yes or no. The flow of the brain regardless of the small numbers, but it doesn't matter. Guest, Project "Guest" and the coming of scientists for a period of 3 to 12 months. Were we able to make any priorities here, too? Are we primarily going to accept someone who's going to be working on solar energy, biothermal energy, what we talked about half an hour ago? Or we receive anyone because his project is good and no matter what it will not be directly applied to the Croatian economy at this time, in development and employment. I agree, basic research should be supported, but there should be some priority classes. The same goes for the senior, same thing. The "Gust" project went to 2.5 million kuna for nine projects, for the senior three projects over a million and a half kuna. I'm not saying it's great projects, but I wonder if they and the Government are agreed to directly support certain economic branches that we have at this point are important to get them out of recession, to put them on our feet, to help hire people in these branches because we feel that we have some advantage over other countries or Europe or the world. It's nice to talk about the knowledge society, perfect, but I'd like to know some concrete measures and our citizens probably want to know if we can be a society of good shipbuilders, a society with quality meat industry, a society with quality white technique that we'll be producing in Končar. Whether it will be a society that will best use geothermal energy in Europe, produce solar energy, etc. I want to see exactly what direction we're pushing this country in, and so I ask Mr. Lucin to tell us what economic branches they were primarily trying to help, encourage their development, employment, production, technological development, exports. How many people are newly employed in Croatia thanks to these projects? What direction are we going to work next year? How will better co-operation be established for this triangle of policy-science education institutions-economy? Once again, in the European Union they are now agreeing very clearly what and what competition will be opened next year. In my field of biomedicine, I recognized precisely a project that I couldn't contact because it was strictly selective for an English pharmaceutical company. They have not only their own resources, but also European funds, clearly, have taken practical action to target these projects according to their research and what they want to achieve. So if they know where their priorities are, where they can hire people the easiest, where the highest profitability is, we're going to at least do something in that direction. Here's no reason to owe a lot more. I can only say in the end, I am glad that the foundation will take over and evaluate probably all scientific projects in Croatia. I've often talked about their shortcomings. I run a science program that has six scientific projects in it. They're funded, these six projects, no order whatsoever, no criteria whatsoever. Some who have relatively little publications, poor quotes have very many resources, others who have excellent works, excellent quotes, the whole world acknowledges them, invites clear leaders of these projects to be their guests, from America, Sweden, Germany, France, they have little resources. Is that citation, is that a publication number, is that an application in biomedicine I don't know, but it can't happen. There must be order in the system. Therefore, and here I invite you to warn those who will come behind you, Mr. Lucin, that there must be clear, transparent criteria. No one may object if you decide to finance a branch of the food industry as a priority, to encourage it in terms of tourism development or not to know what not. No one will object if it is the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. But let's finally decide which way we're going and what our real goal is, is the real goal of economic development and employment or something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40549	Thank you. House of Representatives Club of HSS, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40550	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Imported rapporteurs of the report. My colleagues and fellow MPs. The National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia was established in December 2001 with a fundamental goal of ensuring economic development and promoting employment. With its programmes and activities, the National Foundation provides support for scientific, highly educated and technological projects, and with its activities it promotes international cooperation in the field of higher education. The National Foundation for Science launched its first programmes in 2004 to provide support for higher education reforms, supporting the financing of new doctoral studies and institutional quality assurance mechanisms at higher education institutions of Croatian universities. The report in question shows that the National Foundation supported 64 projects with over 10 million kuna during 2008. In particular, it is pointed out that the National Foundation for Science has become a full member of the European Science Foundation. During 2008, the Management Board held eight sessions, two of which were two days with the aim of strategic planning for further development of the National Foundation. The Management Board may also appoint permanent and occasional expert bodies to assist in the creation, analysis and evaluation of programmes as well as other tasks under the statutes of the Statute. So far, the Management Board has launched 22 programmes under which it allocates funds for projects, scholarships and awards. Of the 417 project proposals reported, 196 of them were approved, worth more than €39 million. It is important to note that the amount of funding can be changed depending on the submitted periodic report that the project leaders are obliged to submit periodically. The report in question shows that out of the total amount of resources allocated by the National Science Foundation in the period 2005 to 2008, 44% of the funds were allocated to the University of Zagreb, 18 University of Rijeka, 13 University of Split, 4% of the University of Osijek and Zadar. The Institutes were allocated 17% of the total appropriations, 1% of the appropriations were allocated to other institutions involved in scientific activities. The National Science Foundation shall provide support to the institutions in the application and implementation of the Bologna Process. In Croatia, scholarships were introduced without an organised system of state financial support to students and did not comply with the mechanism of granting state scholarships. Therefore, the intention is to identify which of the financial support models should be developed in the Republic of Croatia through an analysis of the financial support programme in the countries of the European Union and existing support programmes in Croatia. The Croatian Peasant Party Club believes that it is necessary to consider possible models as quickly as possible and effectively apply them in practice. One of Croatia's strategic goals is to keep people within our borders. Croatia has faced problems with brain drains for many years due to a number of unfavourable circumstances. Therefore, the key strategic area of investment relates to the area of inflow and brain retention. We are witnessing that Croatia has given numerous brilliant minds, but that in time it could not identify them, so it generously sent them abroad where they did not hesitate to embrace them. Since 2004, the National Foundation has launched programmes aimed at attracting education, educational staff to return to Croatia and simultaneously stop the departure of highly educated experts by providing them with affirmation through an attractive system of education and research. In this regard, the GO Senior feedback and establishment support programmes were designed, since the tenders for these programmes were opened during 2007 and 2008, too short a period of time, a time period for the results of the selected programmes to be summed up. We at the HSS Club support such programs and believe that they will give positive results in the near future, only have to be continuously implemented and modified in accordance with needs over time. The doctoral scholarship programme allows for quality training of PhDs at foreign scientific institutions. Personal scholarships are awarded to PhDs who are employed in Croatia at universities and scientific institutes, as well as PhDs from abroad employed in industry and academic institutions. In 2008, 2 million kunas were assigned to the grant programme for PhD students, of the 30 received, 24 projects were accepted. The attached table of planned and achieved costs shows that double the funds are spent than planned. We feel that we are also asking a legitimate question, which is what is the reason for this poor usability of already reserved funds? Whether this is the inattractiveness of the offered programs or there is some other reason for the lack of interest of young scientists. The partnership programme in basic research was launched with the aim of promoting cooperation between academic institutions and industry and entrepreneurship, thus achieving education and professional development of young researchers at higher education institutions and industry through doctoral studies. This programme is attractive on another basis, which is that it attracts investment in basic research that has a very risky character, because business and industry are not interested in investing in research, since there is no guarantee that a commercial impact will be achieved. The total assets of the National Science Foundation amounted to over 97 million kuna on 31 December 2008. This amount of basic assets was about 51%, and according to the Law on the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development and the Statute must reach an amount of 100 million kuna, so double the current amount. The basic property is growing proportionally by payments from the state budget, and since the national foundation did not receive a single payment from the state budget in 2008, neither in 2007 nor in 2006 did the underlying assets increase. In 2008, the National Foundation had a total of 4 million 810 thousand kuna income from interest on hand-to-hand deposits, a refund from positive exchange rates. During 2008, the National Foundation had over 11 million kuna expenditures, out of which 81% wastes on the cost of payment of project funds, and other costs relate to staff costs and operational costs. The report concludes that the National Science Foundation has achieved a number of results in the development of a system of funding for scientific projects during the first 5 years of its activities. Since 1 January 2008, the Foundation has become a full member of the European Science Foundation, allowing all the rights that members exercise, and participating in decision-making in the development of science in the European context. By training quality staff, by establishing a network of evaluators in the country and abroad, joining the European Science Foundation, and by exchanging experiences, the National Foundation provides the basis for quality evaluation of scientific projects. By investing in people, and by encouraging the achievement of their often brilliant visions and ideas, excellence is promoted which directly contributes to the development of the Republic of Croatia. We at the Croatian Peasant Party Club believe that this project will live actively and effectively in practice and that the Foundation will, over time, coordinate more effectively the circumstances of scientific research in the Republic of Croatia with the standards achieved in developed countries, taking care of the even representation of the programme for all scientific areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40551	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40552	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected professors, colleagues and fellow MPs. The National Foundation has a really important function in the development of Croatian science and supporting further development of science, but it should be said that it does not use its potential enough and I personally believe that much more can be done on this condition, certainly provided that the state helps with more funding, so much more money than it is now in play, and that the convergence of Croatian science to the European Research Area is accelerated. Unlike my colleagues who spoke before me, I cannot be satisfied with the amounts mentioned here in millions of kunas for trust projects, especially when you compare it with the amounts in the European Union, the average amount of projects here in Croatia, projects financed from the European Union funds, and even less, we can be proud of that amount when you compare the money for the trust, for example, with millions that are missing, God knows where in the various affairs we read about. Imagine how many PhDs in the Republic of Croatia could have been educated in the best universities in the world and then got even the funding of projects here in Croatia that did not happen in the various public enterprises. The Republic of Croatia is a small country and many of our documents here in the Parliament say that our future lies in knowledge. Then it was said that we were, we would be a society of knowledge, a land of knowledge, an economy of knowledge. To decide now that we are a country that will be exclusively touristic or agricultural, we still need science to remain competitive in these areas and that we can place our products on the world market. So without science, he can't. The last point was energy. It's already mentioned here. Imagine if without science Croatia can have any energy sustainability. Of course he can't. Without quality education and without quality science in this globalised world, the Republic of Croatia has no future. No country without quality education and science has a future. I'm personally concerned when I see that we don't learn enough from our own mistakes, and especially we don't learn enough from examples that are, so countries that are far more successful than we are about the development of science, which in English would say that at this point we're in a "bad-loose" situation. I will briefly say something about Croatian science in the European context, especially now in the time of this great crisis. When we look at these data again, we have some worrying facts and information, starting with the European Union, for example. in this year, funding or funding several hundred thousand projects with several tens of billions of euros by the end of the year. Now many countries have also seen in these European Union funds one of the exits to the crisis where they are when they look cold and so pragmatic, of course, that if you have some of the costs and some of the projects you finance from the state budget you manage to transfer to the European Union funds you will save at the end of some money and in your own budget. And that's why we, and this year, have a drastic increase in the reported projects for different funds, foundations and foundations that I'm going to say a little bit later in some statistics, on the other hand in Croatia, we're constantly listening, and in the end it's one part of the truth, that we're still under-disciplined, we are, that we still have too little information, the Ministry of Finance has recently confirmed for many of the European Union funds that there's actually not enough information that we're under-cated, but there's even less than knowledge, there's even less will to work specifically on networking our scientific sector and our private sector on projects, especially meaning to research projects. And I think that's where the state failed personally, because it's the state that needs to create a climate and let's just put it under quotes some glue that's going to connect all together to start doing bigger projects. Finally, the number of these projects best speaks about what is happening in Croatia. Now where is science in this European text? When you look at this vast forest of funds, foundations, the foundation of science is almost everywhere. Not always, but I say almost starting if you want the seventh... a research project fully dedicated to social, knowledge and knowledge projects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Starting then from the Competitiveness and Innovation Fund, which is interesting when you look at information in Croatian, it is almost always the most stated that it is a programme for entrepreneurship. When you see topics within this programme, eco-innovation, ICPTSP means advanced technology for everyone it is clear that without science this private sector can't achieve anything again. Even the Public Health Fund, therefore, provides for public health in its annual plan that if the Republic of Croatia wants some money on public health projects, the project must be said to be anchored to the results of scientific projects funded for example. from... the program. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The same goes for, say, the Civil Science Program, for civil protection, I apologize. Everything you need right now means science. Croatia, on the other hand, has no money to co-finance such projects, let alone more actively engage in the development of science with larger resources, and let alone funding exactly networking projects, means not only that the institutes are being financed, but also the private sector. This is where the finance minister was and clearly said that, let's say for community programmes, there's not a single chapter of the budget. You, if you want to co-finance a major project here, told us that you can possibly discuss that the Fund for Co-financing of Pre-accession Programmes means projects from the pre-accession fund "IPE" may also be given something for a larger scientific project. It's the situation we're in right now. The National Foundation's report tells us when there's a cooperation programme with the private sector that we've had such cooperation but that in the last 3 years we've had about 12 million kunas and that the number of projects if I'm not mistaken by the last year has fallen. Quite contrary to the European trend. Take, for example, Germany, we like to often say that we are already part of the European circle. That we are part of the European high education area, that we are already part of the European scientific space. Why Germany had so far, I don't know if you know, from the FP6 program, 90% of all projects in Europe had at least one German partner, from a small partner to a project holder. That number for FP7 is already almost 50%, I apologize. Why is that possible? Well, first of all, the German model was that the national funds were the first to finance such projects with significant resources. That the state had created a framework for cross-sectoral co-operation and that is why they could simply seek these funds. In the Republic of Croatia to achieve this needs much, much more money to be at the expense of the foundation. Recently, the European Agency for Finance and Development Research published statistics showing that in this crisis year, the number of projects reported for research projects by the private sector has increased by 8 times. When they were doing the FP7 project, when they were doing the fund programming, they expected about 15% of all funds to go to the private sector by 2013. It's 2009, and they've already broken that number. Until then, Croatia may have several projects under the foundation, and if we look at the analysis of FP7 projects in Croatia, the question of how many serious Croatian partners there are from the private sector, which is not the branch of some large American or European company here in Croatia. And these are actually the defeating results, I don't know if we could count 10. Without good financial support, without the right process of international networking, without real cross-sectoral cooperation Croatia science has no future what is called a globalised world of science. Indeed, there is no future, because the best of us will go, and those who remain will live in Croatia's scientific space with projects whose average value is 5,000 euros. Our scientific projects, all in the Republic of Croatia, are worth between 5 and 6 thousand euros which can be up to 100 times less than one average FP7 project. That's such a comparison. Which means that if our science doesn't change urgently, if we don't speed up our steps towards a European scientific space, co-operation with the European Science Foundation is certainly a step forward, and if we don't speed up our path, our science will look like a small child in the corner of the room playing with its Barbies while serious people on the latest technologies in excellent conditions deal with real science. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40553	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40554	I would like to correct the incorrect allegations that Croatia has no will or will and there is no investment in joint projects, i.e. entrepreneurship, economy and science. So we're talking about these applicative projects. It's just not true. In fact, we have a whole series of these projects that I will later say should be united and should go from one place, which is the Agriculture Research Council of hundreds of projects funded applicatively in agriculture. It is a marketing preparation of agricultural food products of the same science and economy. There is BICRO which with reason, TECHCRO, VECRO, IRCRO etc., etc. means several variants of these programmes and projects financed by the state, which are now playing a particular role in the practice of the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40555	Please proceed immediately. Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40556	So I can continue to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40557	Not a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40558	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A few words of praise to the foundation, too. First of all, I would say in relation to everything we've had in science so far, and it's been about science and it's about projects, about programs, that there's really been a system of transparency in the approval of projects, that here's the talk of electronic reporting that it's been introduced. Last year, especially when we were discussing the fact that the Regulation on the prevention of conflicts of interest, means the application and application of these projects and the participation of people in science in these foundations. The good thing that's happening is connecting with these 11 countries, means related organisations in those countries. Certainly, this should result in both reviews and in some way in selecting research areas, etc. to help and to ensure that there will be some cooperation, means that it might help this most important part, which is the evaluation and evaluation of projects. But here's a few things we can't be satisfied with, and the responsibility is all of us. In fact, when you look at this graphic representation of income in 2008 the foundation really gets into the eyes of this year 2005, the sixth, seventh and eighth years in which unfortunately only in 2005 there has been no investment in these last three years by the state budget. In fact, it certainly did not matter what the work of the foundation was, but when it is viewed as such, there is a fear that it would be able to melt that one blade that one swing the foundation had at the moment and founding and those first years. So here are all our tasks, therefore, for the parliamentary representatives to in some way support the foundation that despite the opposition and the ruling party, that is, the coalition. So we've all expressed ourselves positively and really the foundation is something we need, which we need to develop in general and science, but also those applications of science in the economy. What would be such a small depression, which is that in order to achieve the best conditions of the extradition, calls for delivery of the terms of the tool are sent to three banks. Reifeisen Bank, Privredna and Zagrebačka Banka. Here I would point out that we would have to put this Croatian postal bank into that story. I first thought they were selected on the basis of a tender, but now I can see that those three were selected to which tenders were sent, right? So there is one remark like this that we include this only Croatian bank in this story. I believe that, given that it is an interesting means, they too will be competitive with their interest and will deliver the right offer. Now what I was talking about and the last report, which hasn't happened yet. I see there's some sort of indication. Namely, we have an example. in the Ministry of Economy, a series of support that was, especially for small entrepreneurship. We have in Croatia a small economy agency also from these guarantees to also a series of support and in the end the story is reduced to that of the Croatian small economy agency, carrying out all the tenders that are granted any support to entrepreneurship. What made that possible? Transparency of the process, data pooling, prevention of duplication of these incentives, so resources etc. I think we should do the same thing right here. Now when I've listed this a little while ago, it's now helping me as a picker for this thesis, so that all these projects that are approved, which are scientific, which have the application of the science of the economy within themselves, etc., that it should actually be centralized in some way and that it should be... one place. This does not mean that ideas about what needs to be explored, which this year will be a priority competition, etc. to go from one place to another, it should go from several ministries with multiple points, but that the whole system is competing in science to unite. There are more reasons than this that I listed for HAMAG even though things aren't the same. One of them is to avoid duplication of projects. It means that similar, sometimes identical projects just under slightly modified titles mean that they are running to multiple addresses and that the state supports them from several places, and actually it's almost the same thing. We have these examples, too. I'm not going to read from one of these college projects right now, but there are projects like this, and we're all aware of that. So what's being financed from the Ministry of Agriculture through the Agriculture Research Council, marketing preparation of agricultural food products, then there are these different technology projects that are now going through BICRO. We have here this program line of ours means through the very foundation where these joint projects with the economy are encouraged. So a series, a series of these projects and multiple sources. So, I think there's a really need for one reunion. I think that this foundation that enjoys and trusts the public like this and that has shown that it can deal with the whole procedure, etc. and especially for the evaluation, to be a good point, a good place where all of this would be united and that future competitions would go from one place to another. What I am holding remains extremely important is that we finance in particular, support and further elaborate these co-financing systems or projects that will be directly implemented in practice in the economy, so projects that solve certain and specific problems. I think that's where things started to move for the better. We know that according to some statistics and the Europe helmet for America and we also for Europe but that this level of scientific research of these applied projects in the economy speaks in some way about the level of economic activity, about the performance and competitiveness of the economy, so here it should certainly continue to be an emphasis. There was some information that exactly about 70% is going into these applicative projects which is actually good and I would, perhaps not agree with some colleagues, but I would be extremely pleased with the structure of the selected projects, especially because they are represented by much of the work of these engineering that are clearly catching up to certain problems in practice and going towards its resolution. Here's so much for the trust. I say, with these remarks, I think that the work of the foundation as a transparent institution that helps develop science and the Croatian economy should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40559	Thank you. And Mrs. Representative Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40560	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Lucin, Mr. Secretary of State. Here, at the end of this debate, I am a little sorry that every year about this national foundation, and it seems to me, even when we passed the law in 2001, 2002, we always discuss the foundation like this at a very distant time when very few representatives are here, and in fact it seems to me that in all these years, not once again to the media, we have been able to reach a debate on the national foundation and what we would actually, and I agree there, I think that what my colleague Flego said in Croatian science and in this sense of technology Croatia has been unable to get past a few or a few of us interested who from year to year repeat ourselves in our discussions. I just called to warn you of two facts. One has already been mentioned here several times and for us colleagues and colleagues in the Croatian Parliament is a sad truth which is that in 2008 as in 2007, as well as in 2006, the only June from the state budget did not come into the national foundation. It is the responsibility of a colleague and colleagues of our representatives in the Croatian Parliament that we are bringing. The ministry was wrong because it proposed a budget where there were no funds. In several cases, I personally wrote amendments to change that budget, most of them refused each time. Even when the budget was passed by some very small funds for the foundation, it seems to me that it was last year or cut somewhere a million kunas, then the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the redistribution of the budget took off those funds. And we can't talk about top science, about investing new technology and top science and science generally costs a lot of money without simply investing money. We don't invest money because we don't want to, I can't believe we don't want to because if anything else everybody says they want to. We don't invest money because we don't have it because we have it. We literally threw over 300 million kunas last year with a project of free textbooks, so there's money just a question to define what our priorities are. Here most of the proposing, voting on the state budget as voted, which had resulted in the fact that none of the only Junes had gone to the foundation from the state budget in the last three years obviously did not care or obviously do not consider it a priority, no matter what is said here today. It is not just a matter of saying political responsibilities, a matter of priorities in terms of policy in some way is our legal obligation. The law defines that the trust is financed, among other things, by State budget funds. And what will happen to colleagues and colleagues by the time of the year? How we changed the law and the funding of scientific projects was actually transferred to the foundation will happen to us that when we have this report by the year, we will look at these tables, these powerful zeroes that we have from the state budget and we will have a terribly big leap in the funding of the foundation for 2010. However, this will not result in us investing in the primary treasured purpose for which the foundation is founded to finance excellence, etc. And all that my colleagues spoke of before me. The jump will be because one part that has been done by the ministry so far will be financed through the foundation. And it seems to me that we simply have to stop this practice. With this practice of not funding the foundation from the state budget won't stop overnight or we won't just do it on our own. It's just that most of you who keep refusing to do it for years should vote in the state budget, point, simple. It's one thing because we're not investing too much, and now we have too few projects, and if this kind of foundation survives in rotation now so to say and fertilising the funds it received in this previous year primarily in 2002, in 2003 I think those funds will melt at some point. Not to mention, by amending the law, we've reduced the amount of trust that can't be touched, so these funds that we can make money to make it less and less. It's not the same thing if you make 100 million or 10 million kunas if I remember correctly how we cut. 50, okay. Anyway, we're down by twice. It's not the same interest at 50 or 100. So it seems to me that if we're anywhere in the great distance between what we want, what we declare as a national interest, literally a national interest and what we really do, then that's the case here. There are no bigger steps in any area that we deal with here in the Croatian Parliament. So I repeat science is expensive, top science is even more expensive, new technologies are still not how many times more expensive to come by. But it's our only way out, literally the only way out. And the other thing I wanted to say was about the science's return project. When the project was launched, there were many enthusiastic people who returned to the Republic of Croatia, especially one smaller number of truths but I think that each person is worth, young scientists and scientists who returned to the Republic of Croatia. I spoke to some of them, and many of them are eager to leave Croatia where they came from. They came back enthusiastically, got some kind of support, got some kind of projects. However, our entire system is such that it chokes any innovation, that it chokes any progress or even too much of the steps that these young people who have been raised and educated in another world, in another system, to say one of them has always said that they seem to have fallen from Mars to Croatia, are simply very different from how things work and these particularly young people, one part of them, are eager to return from where they went. And that's where we're going with the science return project. It's not a matter of getting them back, it's a matter of keeping them in Croatia, and this kind of behaviour and scientific policy not only will we not keep them, but we will not attract both our sides and anyone, and our scientific production itself is simply not good enough. I join at the end all those who have discussed this foundation have warned of the disastrous fact that in our sciences people who are very good, but who are simply all from the same scientific area and that is something that I think we must change and in that part I hope that we as the Croatian Parliament have influence, so to speak, in the appointment of some councils and some bodies, at least some who pass through the Parliament, that you will have a lot of understanding because so far there has been no understanding. Since this report of the foundation shows one to say correct work, but not in the way that it was expected and the opinion that some of us have been discussing here for years, I will personally not support this report, because small steps and those small, small, but very small ones that the foundation is working on are good, but it's not close enough and it's not what we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40561	Thank you. State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports Drazen Vicić Topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40562	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam MPs, gentlemen of the Parliament. I'll just comment briefly on some allegations. I thank you, of course, for the discussion and suggestions I've recorded. There's one thing I have to point out. When it comes to the administrative bodies of the National Science Foundation mentioned by the esteemed representative Mr. Flego, then there was misunderstanding because he says we have disproportionateness in scientific areas. Yes, we have disproportionateness in scientific areas because actually the function of the foundation when it was founded, or the one on the complementary body of the Ministry of Finance. That's what they do in all countries. Let's say we have Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft in Germany even though Landern and the Bundesun union also finance the ministries. We have a national Swiss Foundation for Science, etc. I don't want to pick it up. So there are such foundations, they are complementary to the ministries and they insist much more on so-called. Let's call it metricocracy, competitiveness rather than the ministry. The ministries are concerned that the whole system is working, and the foundations don't have to do it. But when we talk about bioscience, unfortunately I have to tell you, and I don't think that's sad, I think it's great for Croatia, that we have, I have both OECD data and ours, 36.6% of all units in research and development in Croatia are bioscience. 36.6. 47.1% of all persons involved in research and development in Croatia work in the field of bioscience. So 47.1. 43.9 of all published works, but that's what I say to those who are on world bases, Karen Conte, and they're similar in the field of bioscience. 42.7 of the total domestic product is funded in bioscience, meaning that it is one sector that is extremely strong with us and it would be tragic that something that we have good, that because of some logic of the mammals who have financed everything, now it... That's me thinking the first thing, but I agree that we can always talk about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second is when there are four people that are from this scientific area, and in this person here and my smallness is always mentioned, the same is not true. I beg you to do this more, Your Honor, Mr. Representative, do not repeat... I'm a chemist, I'm from the field of natural science, and I'm working on Ruđer Boskovic, and now my position is frozen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have nothing to do with bioscience, except some research I've been doing in that area. That's not true. At this point, says Mr. MP, j of those four are employed in the same institution. That's not true either. I work at the Ministry, I'm frozen on Ruger, and I'm a front-page, regular professor without a job in Rijeka. It doesn't mean anything. So if I'm not going to meet that minimum six hours of class, I'm going to lose it, and I'm elected in 2000 in natural sciences. I mean, we really have to tell the right data because then we get lost in all of it. A colleague Fuchs is a bioscience, but a veteran, and colleagues Pavelic and his colleague Lucin are biomedicine. But that's the situation she is. I might be happy if they were all from natural sciences, but they're not, and the happiest I'd be if they were from humanistic, but they're not because it's not a reflection of a picture in this country. Here lies quality, but this does not mean that these other areas should not be financed. Now I'm going to tell you something, to see in the European community that Mr. Honorary Representative Mondekar mentioned, 50.5 billion euros are invested for Framework 7, that's true. However, there are nine priorities. The first priority is ICT, we know it's strong everywhere, 28.23% of the funding goes that way. Then Health, Health, 18.75, and Social Humanity are the ninth with 1.89, but that doesn't mean they're bad but they're just such trends. It's not good at all to compare areas, to speak better, which is worse because everyone has meaning. Technically, biotechnical, bioscience and nature push society forward, but that society might go in one wrong direction if there were no humanistic and social sciences. They're terribly important, they're in control, they're just funding relationships everywhere in the world. It's not our invention, it's something special. In addition, it is often mentioned that the 5,000-euro projects are on average. That's not true either. I'm sorry Mr. Mondekar, the honourable representative, isn't here. First, the projects are 73 thousand 500 kuna on average, but it is only for material costs, and the projects include the salaries that scientists receive, the scientific money that costs this country 105 thousand kuna gross each year, instruments, capital equipment they receive, small and medium equipment. That's pretty good money. I agree that they are not enough, I would agree with Mrs. Maria Lugaric, and we need to strengthen it, but it is not that black and white. I would also point out as to the integration of the university if the ministry hadn't done enough. I agree, and it's neither black nor white, but look. We had a law that was passed in July 2003, the Law on Scientific Activity... In fact, the law has derivated to a large extent the work of the ministry, given some excessive autonomy to universities, and then we changed it in 2004 and we had the next amendment in 2007 and now we are going to new laws where things will be put in place. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No one is against university autonomy, but university autonomy refers to something else considered by the academic community. This refers to the autonomy of research, knowledge, and not funding. Everywhere there's funding, there's responsibility. As for a good remark, then, I thank the esteemed representative Nevi Šetić for reducing this programme in the national foundation, no longer having the effectiveness of the scientific return. Of course not. Why? Because we're based on a World Bank loan for so-called. STP, for science and technology in Croatia of 31m euros, which we received from scientific technology policy in 2006, we have a program called Knowledge Unity and with this programme came to Croatia 124 returnees, which is not a small number for a relatively small country such as Croatia. Of course it should be even bigger. And of course there has to be one part of the dissatisfied people in that percentage because not everyone can just expect the same that there will be working conditions as in America and Australia. But many are very pleased. Finally, I'd say, I'd just like to say that I'd like to call my priorities just for a little while longer. I've got to point out, and that's what professors are going to do. Lucine says, the foundation has absolutely its own priorities, and it just as an independent institution that is thanks to this high body and founded, which I think was a great idea that there's a complementary source of funding, has its priorities that don't have to be in line with the country's priority. But I'm telling you, there are the priorities of this country, only it's obviously not announced enough, it's on the net, we're talking about it. The scientific technology policy adopted in the 5th month 2006 by the government of the Republic of Croatia defines four priorities. These are energy materials, health, environment and Croatian identity. Within Croatian identity we have language, humanistic science, culture, and that means we have priorities, and priorities are now seen as the most funded this is from bioscience, because that means we have both quality and priority. So of course it needs to be improved. I repeat, nothing is black white. And I would finally just conclude about going out, brain as Drain says, and we have brain gas, but actually today it's much better to say, everyone says brain circulation, and you have brain circulation. Look, actually, for scientists, it's positive that they go out when they're done, but now we need to find a way when they go out to get them back home as many as possible, and those who stay out there to get them to cooperate as best they can. Otherwise, the World Bank's latest data, the country most outgoing scientists are Malta and immediately Ireland next to it, which are countries that are in the European community, which certainly have a far better standard than we are. And then Bosnia and Herzegovina and us. So it is, I mean it's also a little relative stuff. Of course, we have a part of going for economic reasons, and the most important part is going for learning, because of new ideas and returning these ideas to home. Here's what I'd like to finish. Yes, and I say we can't artificially even all six areas, but the ministry has a task of helping an area where maybe we're not that good-quality. Because we have in every area of quality individuals. But some areas are a little, as I say, we have good soloists, but our orchestra isn't set. Now this is the task of no trust, the foundation must have competence to force excellence completely, and our task is to strengthen certain areas of what we do and we will continue to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40563	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Agent Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40564	I'd like to correct three allegations. Mr. Secretary of State, it is not true that there was too much autonomy in the 2003 law, because autonomy either has or does not exist. You can't be a little bit in a different condition, a little not be in a different condition. It's that you didn't know what to do with that autonomy, that's another thing. That's just saying that guilty people have found themselves in the wrong places. Secondly, it is not true that Croatia is not an exception in the world's European structure of science. You now said yourself that Helt is 19% and in Croatia 50%. And as far as I'm concerned... So the amount of health projects or whatever you want is 20 percent in Croatia is 50 percent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And third, as far as your area is concerned. Please don't correct me in a way that's inadequate. The truth is, I know very well that you're a chemist, but equally, you're an organic chemist. I know you worked on Ruger Boskovic, but I also know that you came to the University of Rijeka after you became State Secretary at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40565	And final review. ... No, no, there isn't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's not unfortunately, it's not. The chairman of the board of directors, Mr. Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40566	Mr. Chairman, dear MPs and MPs. I know you're tired so I'll try just a few telegraph lines to say my final letter. First of all, to thank you for your support, and as I said at the beginning of this whole time, but perhaps what's more important, and to thank those five people who have been doing this job that we've been talking about all along. So it was forgotten to point out in all these discussions that the job was done by five people and seven board members. These seven members, of course, are appointed by you, named on a proposal from different interested parties, let's say or... and legislator, therefore, the Croatian Parliament which envisioned the management of the foundation has just imagined that management should be autonomous, independent of politics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, I can't imagine that politics can ask a rectorial choir or scientific institutes or the National Science Council or the Croatian Academy of Science to be nominated by the candidate. The purpose of such a constructed board of directors was for the foundation to be independent of politics and essentially insisting on any quotas is nothing more than political pressure on the foundation, and the foundation was just established to make science as autonomous as possible from politics. This is what all European countries have done, and that is what we did in 2001, and I think it was, at least as far as we scientists are concerned by one of the best moves of the Croatian Parliament. So, at the same time that we established our National Foundation for Science, therefore, in 2001, an Irish Foundation for Science was established, with the same principles and very similar principles, with the Irish Foundation for Science, or its fund being paid exactly a billion dollars, or more precisely a billion and 200 million dollars, and 100 million kuna was paid in our foundation, of which, of course, half was prescribed to be a basic pension, so 50 million kuna could be used for programmes, or when we translate it into euro about 6 and a half million euros. So I think it is absurd to ask any MPs, especially my friend Miljenko Doric, of whom we have already discussed a lot, that with 6 and a half million euros a national strategy can be realised and that national priorities can be defined and determined, and in particular that employment can be increased. So what we decided to do with this money, and what we presented to you every year was to make an institution like all European countries and how it works on the principles of how such institutions work in all European countries. And we pointed out several times in the report that we were in Switzerland, that we were in Germany, that we were in Ireland, that we were in Finland learning from them and tried to do exactly what a advanced European state should have in science. Of course last year we even took a step further because that initiative that some MPs mentioned, which is the IPRO initiative or "International Prewiev" and what O means in Opatija is exactly our initiative and Hungarians to create space or a coalition of 11 European states to ensure enough evaluators. I think that, I also said that in my opening statement, and I call you once again because I will no longer submit to the report because I expect you to resolve me, until I am relieved of my post as president, and the function needs to be done precisely because of the responsibility of those people who competed with us at the 4th month, who competed now at the 10th month waiting to realize their scholarships waiting for their projects, waiting for the evaluations. I don't think I should tell you how exciting and important it is for a young scientist who's just trying to stand on his own, reporting his first project and waiting for an evaluation, and if that evaluation waits for a few months or if there's even worse if he feels that this evaluation isn't fair or that it's not done in an appropriate way. So, precisely because of our responsibility to these people, we continued to function as a board of directors, and among other things because the law was amended and that we submitted our resignations to the Croatian Parliament, the board of directors would not have members, could not decide at all. Not to mention the job that needs to be done. So I think, I ask you once again in the end, don't let the Sistifian logic and philosophy be introduced into the functioning of the foundation in the staffing of the foundation because the foundation was an important man, the foundation was an important project, we never saw which area, which scientist, which institution. We can analyze, we can say why it was one way or another, but I repeat once again that there would be no confusion 40% of the resources went into natural sciences, not biomedical sciences. That money went to physicists the most. Why? Because our physicists as one group are actually the best, and that's what the results show. Whether we like it or not, I was a medic, but they're more competitive, especially with a larger number. I'd just like to answer some of the MPs some of the things they've set up, I think I owe them. So why did we cancel the "Returner" program? Because we transferred him to the Unity Fund with the help of knowledge. So, let's not double the funds and financial instruments. Why didn't we spend money on programs? You've seen that there's always a program in the report how much funding is planned for each programme and how much money we spent. Because we did not allocate funds by quota or to spend money, but only to allocate funds to projects that had passed the quality criteria. And if you look at the results of any program we haven't been able to spend until the end because we didn't want to allocate money to projects that didn't meet quality criteria. Unfortunately, this is not, unfortunately, the way it has to be. Our score is somewhere around 45% passable, but if we have a really competitive science system should be below 25, so there should be even more rejected projects, but our people should get used to it. You've probably noticed and you're probably going to ask why there's high passability in postdoctoral and doctoral programs? For a simple reason because they're good. So the frequency, the number of our post-doctorates and doctors who are good is far greater than we think and we think that our obligation is to provide them with a transparent system and a society where they can develop, and that's why our evaluations are the result. The evaluations are always independent, very often involving international experts, based on principles that are good experiences in Ireland, Switzerland and Germany. The regulations or rules to prevent conflicts of interest have been developed together with the German Science Foundation, so they have developed their own we have joined and developed our rules to prevent conflicts of interest and these rules are very detailedly elaborated and they are nothing different than in the German Science Foundation. Just to remind you, the DFG German Science Foundation has an annual budget of 2.5 billion euros. So, in the end, I'd like to be when you talk about the trust. When we talk and when anyone talks about the trust, we don't talk about the trust fund giving. The Trust Fund does not grant, the Foundation finance, the Foundation invests in those scientists who have fought for their funding. So we didn't give anyone the funds we invested in those people, those projects that fought. Thank you very much and once again I would like to thank you because I will soon stop as chairman of the board of directors of the five people who have done their job, who have done all this work, so all you see, everything you know about the foundation is essentially done by those 5 people who are highly organized, well trained and who are essentially their working capacity, and among other things, the usefulness of their working time that moves to a level of over 95%, and who, in fact, with exceptional team work compensates in fact far more, are doing the whole job and represent the future of course not only for the development of the foundation but let us also hope that all who try to develop what we will very often mention, administrative capacity, they are not administration, they are much more than that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40567	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Agent Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40568	I did not intend to, but I simply can't leave the impression that in fact the whole series of remarks was an attempt of political intervention into an independent foundation, but it is said that the foundation was also created in politics and that interventions were simply related to malformations created in the foundation and the entire system of science management. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-15-0.u40569	I'm closing the debate. I interrupt the session, resume tomorrow at 9.30 with a debate on the report on the implementation of the national strategy and action plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2008 and probably with another report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. At 13 o'clock, the vote is scheduled. Annual report of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia for 2008, submitted by the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Annual Report of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 is accepted. a year." Please, let's get on with it. To vote. Score. I find that with 76 votes for, 2 abstentions and 24 against the proposed conclusion.
