ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40571	Honorable MPs and MPs. We're starting today's session. The item on the agenda is which is announced. - A report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2008 The Government submitted this report on the basis of Article 111. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Health and Social Care. You received the report at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Djurdja Adlesic, Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40572	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs. On the basis of reports and data from the competent ministries, we produce one such report each year on the implementation of the National Strategy to combat drug abuse and the Action Plan. Two are the main objectives of the national strategy. Reduction of supply and reduction of demand for drugs. The report contains united data for the past year and details the state of abuse of intoxicating drugs in the Republic of Croatia, European trends and the review of the situation of the Republic of Croatia in relation to the state of drug abuse in Europe. Croatia is unfortunately on a geostrategicly important smuggling route called the Balkan route, which makes heroin and cannabis from South-West Asia smuggle towards Western Europe. The change in trends in the drug market in recent years has marked illegal trade in synthetic drugs from the west towards the east of which Croatia is neither excluded. According to data from the Croatian Institute of Public Health by the end of 2008, a total of 27,000 345 people were registered from the abuse of psychoactive drugs, representing an increase of 6.6% compared to 2007. During 2008 there were 7 thousand 506 persons who were treated for the first time or were 22.6% of those who first turned to treatment. The total number of drug addicts treated in 2008 increased by about 1%, showing that there was a stabilisation of the number of treated persons and the proportion of new people in the system of treatment of addicts continued to decrease and represented the lowest proportion of newly treated subjects over the past ten years. Because of the abuse of opiates during 2008 there were 5 thousand 832 people who had been treated for the first time for 769, the lowest share of newly arrived opiates users. Among treated subjects, the highest number of opiate addicts is 78%, which is about 1.3 more than in 2007 and then because of the abuse of marijuana is about 13%. According to data on the total number of people treated for 100,000 from 15 to 64 years of life is the most registered from Zadar County, followed by Istria County and the City of Zagreb. The highest rate treated for opiate addiction is Zadar County, Istria and Sibenik-Knin County. In 2008, 116 people died due to drug use, down by 29.7% compared to 2007 when 165 people died. According to mortality, most people died of an overdose of more than 70%. During 2008, 5 000 879 drug seizures were made in total, representing a 10% reduction compared to the previous year, noting that there was an increase in seized amounts of heroin, hashish, amphetamine, heptanone compared to 2007. So far, the burning process has destroyed over 4 tons of seized drugs. In 2008, a total of 7000 882 crimes were recorded, which is about 1% less than in 2007 related to drug abuse and smuggling. For the initiation of those crimes in 2008, 5 thousand 225 persons were reported criminally, about 8% less than in 2007 and 4 thousand 655 violations were filed, representing a decline of around 11.5% in 2008 compared to 2007. In 2008, for the first time in ten years, there was a fall of addicts in the prison system who had not previously been given a precautionary treatment measure. During 2008, there were a thousand 58 drug addicts who were directed to support the sentence. It's somewhere around 15% of the total number of prisoners. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The penal code is the most represented and participated in the total mass of drug abuse by more than 75%. During 2008, 218 minors were reported for all modes of this crime and a decline in juvenile crime related to drug abuse of 22% was observed as previous years and even 77.5% of minors were reported for the mildest form of this crime, which is possession of small quantities of marijuana for their own use. In the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of the programme of prevention and control of drug abuse, the implementation of the National Strategy for the Prevention of Drug Abuse and the Action Plan for the Prevention of Drug Abuse in 2008 spent 84 million 827 kuna, the largest spent amount in the last five years, even more than 26% more funds than we spent in 2007. During 2008, a whole series of activities were carried out specifically to highlight the implementation of drug-related resociation projects, the creation of an Action Plan to combat drug abuse for 2009-2012, the development and implementation of the '08 Action Plan. year, implementation of education for working with young risk management and other educational and co-ordination activities. In addition to this, the Section for the Construction of the National Programme for Prevention of Dependence for Children and Youth in the Educational System and children and young people outside the education system was established. There were a number of projects in collaboration with the media that also played a major role. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the prevention of drug abuse has also been drawn up. During 2008, there was much international cooperation, particularly with European institutions, and good bilateral co-operation was established with European countries, as well as regional co-operation with Southeast European countries. Although we are presenting a 2008 report, I would like to stress that in early July of this year, an agreement has been initialled between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community for the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the work of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction. During his study visit to Lisbon, the director of the European Centre said we could expect the signing of the agreement early next year. We attach great meaning to this because we care about experience and cooperation with European countries. I would also like to commend a number of civil society associations that have made a significant contribution to the fight against drug abuse and have launched and continued a number of preventive activities, thus enabling rehabilitation of addicts in rehabilitation communities. However, I want to make a point that there is too much time range from the beginning of consumption, developing addiction to seeking professional or medical assistance. This period lasts from 4 to 7 years and the average age of first reporting for treatment is around 26 years, and data suggest that children encounter drugs long before 14 years ago. In keeping with this account, we need to step up the implementation of preventive activities in the education system. The creation of a National Programme for Prevention of Dependence for Children and Youth in the Educational System is under way, but also for children who are therefore outside that system. One of the priorities will be the implementation of targeted schools education on the harmfulness and impact of drug abuse, as well as the activation of local communities, in particular county commissions to combat drug abuse in order to play a more active role in the development and implementation of these programmes. From 15 November to 15 December, we mark the month of the fight against addiction and then, in cooperation with the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, we will present these programmes by county and school. We must say that we already have examples of good practice in some school institutions of certain counties, but they unfortunately very rarely get media space even though they have successful programs to resociate addicts. So here I would just specifically mention the Association "Exodus" to help young people fight addiction, then the Association for Prevention and Assistance in solving the problem of addiction "New Way" from Sinj, then the Association "Independence" in Vrbnica near Osijek, which even got a boost from the Ministry of Economy because they founded a cooperative for social cooperative entrepreneurship and thus prepare to get out of treatment. I sincerely hope that you will support this report after the debate and that we will get more useful suggestions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40573	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Jeljana Kalaš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40574	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Deputy Prime Minister, representatives of the ministries. Very often in society, even here in this House of Higher Education, we can hear that many of the current pains in Croatian society are only remembered on occasions of marking some significant dates. Maybe someone could say something like that about fighting the monsters of a new age, drug abuse and drug abuse, but I couldn't agree with that. Let me say on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club on this occasion that this is exactly the document that we have just begun the debate to deny. The statistics and exhaustive report give us a picture of the efforts that the state institutions and institutions are making in the fight against drug abuse, their cooperation with NGOs and their significant contribution, on projects that are being implemented in accordance with this problem, and on all other entities involved in solving this problem. And unfortunately, despite all these efforts, the problem cannot finally be solved. But such documents, a strategic approach and a concrete action plan can certainly make progress. As the Deputy Prime Minister said, exactly one month from November 15th, the month of the fight against addiction begins. It is marked at both local and national level, but it is not the only time when we should be sensitised on this issue or access to this problem is uniform. It is certainly multidisciplinary, with particular delicacy and importance of cooperation with institutions and for education and education, health institutions, social care, state attorney's office, judiciary, family and religious institutions, NGOs and all organisations of the local community. The following data on the report on the work of therapeutic communities and associations dealing with the prevention of drug abuse have shown that there has been a significant improvement in the number, type and quality of programmes and services provided by associations and treatment communities, and I believe that this is particularly important to highlight. However, there is still the need to invest additional efforts aimed at improving the quality of services and programmes implemented in the non-governmental sector in order to achieve some of the key guidelines of the overall national policy in the area of the prevention of drug abuse, which is currently derived from the National Strategy for the control of the abuse of intoxic drugs related to the period 2006 to 2012 and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse for the period 2006 to 2009, thus. Among other things, this is primarily an improvement in the quality of treatment and psychosocial rehabilitation in therapeutic communities, professional and ethical principles of work in them, and the creation of a network of therapeutic communities in the Republic of Croatia, which will be part of the overall health and social care system for drug addicts. In 2008, it was noted that the quality of services and treatment in existing treatment communities was significantly improved and greatly aligned with the guidelines for the standards of the therapeutic communities and the proposal for a procedure for issuing a work permit for the treatment communities, which was developed by the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse in the Republic of Croatia in 2007. Given that the proposing representative had an exhaustive exposure, I would point out for the very end in particular, and that I certainly believe that it is extremely important in line with the national strategy and action plan to talk about projects to resuscitate addicts, retraining and schooling addicts, because in this report we saw about the structure of their education, statistics on this, and the promotion of employment and self-employment of treated addicts. Because you will agree with me that after successfully completed rehabilitation and withdrawal treatment of addiction, the main objective in the treatment of addicts or former addicts is to systematically and permanently address the issues of their social reintegration. Everyone needs a second chance, so that's how it is in this case. In addition to the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse in the Resociation Project of Independents since the activation of the government project in 2007, and this report refers to 2008, a large number of state bodies are involved in the project, so state administration bodies, institutions, both at national level and at local level. Additional measures for the employment of rehabilitated addicts in the 2008 annual employment plan and for the employment of special interests tailored to this population, the promotion of self-employment and the like are also significant measures in terms of encouraging the rehabilitation of addicts. And lastly, this report may be summed up in several of the most important items. During 2008, in the Republic of Croatia, the total number of drug addicts was increased by 0.6%, indicating a stabilisation of the number of drug addicts treated. It is also said that there has been a reduction in the death rate of people dependent on psychoactive drugs, and reports show that all resolution ministries have actively implemented measures of national strategies and action plan to combat drug abuse, and that a stable functioning of the prevention and non-patient treatment services has been observed. And that is exactly why the HDZ Club will accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40575	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40576	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, MPs and MPs, Madam Deputy Prime Minister with his associates. The Croatian Peasant Party Representatives' Club will support a report on the implementation of the national strategy and action plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2008. I want to begin by commending the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse, Master Klaric, his associates and, of course, all those bodies of state and local administrations that are making great efforts to combat drug abuse. Through a report that is before us today, it is evident that during the first six months of 2009, better coordination was observed in the design and implementation of general and special programmes to combat drug abuse, and it is also evident that there has been a stabilisation of the number of treated persons, and the proportion of new people in the system of treatment of addicts continued to decrease as we think it still shows some shifts. In addition to the decline in the number of persons reported, and hence the number of accused and convicted persons, all other drug abuse-related ratios correspond to the situation of earlier reporting periods so that we can conclude that in the area of drug crime in recent years we have not seen any major shifts. Better coordination and efficiency of the system as a whole has been observed as reflected in the more efficient implementation of the measures, better organisation of system-treated addicts, a greater number of drug seizures, more active involvement of local administrations in the implementation of the prevention of drug abuse in their territory, and a greater number of preventive and educational activities carried out throughout Croatia as part of the school system. A whole series of activities have been implemented that we would particularly like to highlight in the HSS club implementation of the drug addiction resociation project, the development of an action plan to combat drug abuse for 2009 to 2012, the development and implementation of the 2008 and 2009 action plan and the implementation of education for young people with risk management, and the maintenance of education for journalists who report the problem of drug addiction and crime and other educational and coordinated activities in written and electronic media. We also highlight the implementation of preventive activities aimed at promoting and developing healthy lifestyles and prevention of addiction, and to this end a expert working group is established to develop a national programme for prevention of child and youth addiction in the educational system, as well as children and young people who are outside the education system. In addition to the above, the activities of the media campaign are carried out on a continuous basis, printed and distributed educational and promotional materials intended for parents, children and young people in collaboration with the Croatian Radio are also produced by radio singles broadcast in the Croatian Radio Network, a television video on the subject of addiction broadcast in the media. What is also less important than the above mentioned is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the control of drug abuse, which is proposed to delete the termology intoxicated, and the new system of control of precursors as well as the reduction of the deadlines for the destruction of drug use in such a way that drugs can be destroyed even after carrying out the necessary evidence actions is important because, of course, it is also in accordance with the prescribed Article 190. The law on criminal proceedings. What we consider particularly important at the HSS Club is exactly a project to resociate drug addicts and we would like to commend the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which decided at its meeting on 21 May 2009 to adopt a national employment promotion plan for 2009 and 2010 with all implementing measures. That national plan includes, among other things, measures to encourage employment aimed at drug addicts. A meeting with representatives of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, the Croatian Alliance of Cooperatives, associations and therapeutic communities providing assistance in the resociation of drug addicts was organised at the initiative of the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse. The meeting aimed to representatives of associations and treatment communities as potential founders of social entrepreneurship cooperatives to explain in detail the conditions for applying for a public call under the 2009 cooperative entrepreneurship project, as part of which the Ministry of Economy is a supporter for the measure to encourage the development of cooperatives that develop social cooperative entrepreneurship. Users of these measures are cooperatives that develop socially cooperative entrepreneurship and employ people with reduced working capacity and include them in work and economic processes or provide them with assistance in adverse personal, economic, social or other circumstances and include them in the wider social community, where they are naturally and treated drug addicts. I must therefore say that these efforts made by the Office certainly deserve commendation because the objective of the meeting itself was to improve the implementation of measures to encourage the employment of treated addicts through the establishment of cooperatives. The specific activity focused on the development of regional cooperation and the presentation of an initiative to create two projects of regional importance. A project relating to the implementation of a regional initiative to strengthen cooperation between the countries of Southeast Europe through the establishment of a regional office as a mechanism for the exchange of knowledge and information and the application of good practice, which will deal in particular with all aspects of reducing drug demand and monitoring the situation in the region, and others relating to the establishment of a regional training centre for guides and training of official dogs. In addition, negotiations on the full participation of the Republic of Croatia in the work of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction and the initial agreement with the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction have been concluded. I would also like to say here an example of life through which drugs and addiction are evident to be a great evil. A heroin addict, since he's mostly unemployed without a working habit, deals with begging, stealing, prostitution, or robbing to get money for the required daily dose, and there's nothing he won't do to get that single dose. According to a former heroin addict who managed to get off drugs after 20 years, he even spent money on it to bury his own mother. His mother was lying in the morgue for 15 days. As I say when you're an addict with no emotions, no feelings for a close person, no friends, he finds his way out of that hell, which is welcomed by a society that closes his doors because of prejudice and his struggle to form a life without drugs makes it more difficult. Drugs destroy the future of society by killing and destroying the health of our young. But it also destroys their families, parents who must face the fact that their child is addicted to heavy drugs. The thefts in their own home, which must watch their child fall from day to day and experience attempts at withdrawals that often fail many times, and the awakened hope again replace despair and helplessness. Drugs are hell, hell for everyone and for the addict and his family. She's an evil who steals the lives of young people but also lives of the whole society. Unfortunately, some people are happy to rub their hands over the bundles of bloody bills, and I think that's the way it should end. I would therefore once again, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party, warn of the importance of strong prevention and the support of the entire state apparatus to be given to the family as the most important link in society. Family is the first school of human relations, the family learns the language of culture, religion, anthem learns the identity of its own people, learns what kind of man it should be. A stable and satisfied family is the first test that if we pass, we will know that we have taken the first big step towards society, in which it is known that drugs are not in, companies that will have the strength to curb drug abuse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40577	I would like to thank you on behalf of the HNS Club, the distinguished representative of Danica Hurs, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40578	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Deputy Prime Minister with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I will say that representatives of the Croatian People's Party Club will accept this report. In the opening statement, we heard a comprehensive report from our Deputy Prime Minister, so let me just underline some of the parts in that report. In the implementation of the National Strategy to combat drug abuse, the implementation of measures and activities aimed at preventing drug abuse at local level is extremely important. So, in counties, cities and municipalities. The state of spread of drug abuse in every environment depends on a number of factors that certainly include socio-demographic characteristics of the population, the degree of economic development, the level of employment of the population, the availability of drugs and many other features. Unfortunately, there is a steady growth in the abuse of intoxicating drugs in the Republic of Croatia, which took the scale of the epidemic in the mid-90s after the Homeland War. In recent years, there has been a stabilisation of the trend of new addicts in the treatment and treatment system and in general a stabilisation of trends related to drug abuse, which raises hope and desire for all of us to move towards the continuing decline of the number of addicts and only then can we start talking about our National Strategy and Action Plan having a really good effect. The 2008 report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the 2008 Action Plan shows an increasing application of the decentralisation principle as one of the main principles in the National Strategy for the Prevention of Drug Abuse for the period 2006. In 2012, it can be said that there has been a more intensive decentralised approach to resolving the problem of addiction in a way that points to more uniform distribution of different programmes and content throughout the Republic of Croatia in line with the real needs of certain local environments. According to the Croatian Institute of Public Health, this was already mentioned by the total number of people treated in 2008 with 7 thousand 506 persons, for the first time being treated with 1700 or a percentage of 22.6. From this, 769 people asked for help because of their addiction to opiates, 931 people came to be treated for addiction to another type of opiate. The number of newly treated persons is reduced, primarily treated for opiate addiction, and it can be concluded that in Croatia the operation of a system for prevention of addiction and beyond hospital treatment of addicts has had a positive impact but is still insufficient. According to data on the number of total people treated for 100,000 working-age residents aged 15 to 64, according to the counties in 2008 the highest rate of treated persons was mentioned in Zadar County, second place is Istria in which the rate is 531.1. The following is City of Zagreb with 424,8 and Dubrovnik-Neretva County and so on. According to data for opiate addicts, there has been no change in rates compared to last year, which is encouraging. The highest rate of people treated for opiate addiction, so I said to 100 thousand people in working hours from 15 to 64 has Zadar County, followed by Istria, Sibenik-Kninska, Dubrovnik-Neretvaska and so on. Other counties have a lower rate than the rate for the Republic of Croatia, which was 195.5 for people treated for opiate addiction to 100,000 people of working age. Data from the Ministry of the Interior on the number of criminal and criminal offences and the number and quantity of drugs seized by police administrations also show that the counties that have the highest rate of treated addicts to 100,000 people of working age are also the counties in which the largest drug confiscation has been obtained and that these counties have the highest number of reported criminal and criminal offences by police. The entire national policy on the prevention of drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia is based on a multidisciplinary approach and includes the joint action of different sectors in the field of social protection, health, education, justice, internal affairs, finance and defence, as well as in order to achieve 2 basic objectives of the national strategy, which are to reduce supply and reduce demand for drugs. In 2008, significant funds were allocated for the implementation of county action plans to combat drug abuse. Thus, a total of 8 million 922 thousand 922 kuna and 72 June were allocated from the 2008 county budget for the implementation of the county action plans, which is 14.7% higher than in 2007. These funds were mostly allocated to the implementation of the programme of prevention of addiction and other programmes implemented by NGOs while the work of the county centres for prevention of addiction, social care centres, family centres and educational institutions was financed by the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and the Ministry of Health and Social Care. And in the end, the education of young and old, so children and parents, I would especially underline the parents, I think that's missing. Because here's the information that only after four years of drug treatment, the first treatment tells us that parents are under-educated, so I am particularly under-instructing education at all levels and across all forms as the most important prevention in the monster that is present in our daily life. This education must, of course, go hand in hand with current developments in the field of supply and consumption of harmful substances by human health. Here we have recently witnessed young people reaching out for cheaper opiates, alcohol taking a special place here, and I think we need to mobilize all possible institutions in order to put an end to that monster too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40579	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40580	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Parliament. I keep asking myself why are we not more successful in coping with this drug abuse? Croatia wanted me to admit it or not, don't literally understand me, a significantly militalised country. What do I mean by "militalized"? Well, at this point, we at the Home Office's salary have about 33,000 officers or employees who are tied up there, so in the MUP. We have the same, I guess, at least that or twice as many ex-cops retired, one cop always a cop. Okay, well, whoever's retired doesn't need to call, but he can tip you off some important information from his neighborhood. We've got a couple thousand people in the intelligence community, I guess two, three times that in retirement. And they could in some way engage in that criminal, repressive apparatus and several thousand judges, state lawyers, which I know 20 thousand professional soldiers, etc. So one word of 150 thousand people we have either directly or indirectly related to that repressive apparatus, and on the other hand we have 4.4 million inhabitants. So if we turn down old people from that number if we refuse children to age 14 even though it's fraternizing that children like Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister said already 14 years ago come into contact with that drug and even heroin, then 20 people come from that repressive apparatus. And how come year after year we have more and more opiates on the street, more and more junkies, more and more deaths thanks to that drug, and one individual from that repressive machine sort of covers 20 people? Okay, maybe it's too easy to say that, but that's how that relationship in society could be translated. I mean, if that's the case, if one individual is under quotes in a situation that in some way 20 of them are being watched, then I guess everything should be known, and every time it comes to drugs, we're actually surprised. Clearly, no one is, and neither will Croatia control the drug use 100%, but the man is just asking himself if it is possible for the drug lord to put an end to it? I just want to believe that it's possible to do much more on this matter. I'm afraid even some individuals in the system, I don't mean the Parliament, or the Government, that we understand each other, or at the top of the police, might be involved in all this and doing work for someone. Earlier, both the Deputy Prime Minister and some parliamentary colleagues quoted the highest rate of treatment. He says: "Zadar County, second place Istria County, follows the City of Zagreb while the highest rate of people treated for opiate addiction again has Zadar County then Istria County and Sibenik-Knin County" etc., etc. Not to quote the whole chapter. Although some who deal with it in Istria assure me that they are not the biggest problem or that Istria is not the biggest problem, I see these data that kind of deny them. They're telling me that they might be better organized, that maybe more, differently, I don't know, they're doing better than others, but once again I'm going to say that the problem in the county that I come from is simply eclative. In 2007, we heard it died of an overdose of 165 people. It's just a tragedy. Okay. In 2008, there was something smaller. But when one person dies, I dare say with it her whole family dies. And now you're really a man asking a question, how do you end it? What do you do? I'm going back to those 150 thousand people in that either direct or indirect repressive apparatus. Clearly, perhaps this problem may not be seen in a way that or how I simplify it, but the problem is enormous and understandable that we are all trying to find a solution. Also, I have no intention of calling anyone on this occasion, because someone might call me what I did about it, but I have reason to be frustrated, because year after year, that problem is getting bigger. So it's said that the number of addicts by some indicators has grown from year to year. During 2008, 10% of all types of intoxicating drugs were seized, and we claim that the problem is getting bigger, so not this year before. Noting that there has been a significant shift in the quantities of intoxicated drugs, heroin, amphetamines, heptanone and LSD, etc. During 2008, 0.88% less criminal acts related to the ban and smuggling of intoxicating drugs, etc. were recorded, and I am deeply convinced that the problem last year was certainly not smaller than in the case of deaths, but in 2007, and I am afraid that the 2009 problem will be greater than in 2008. To understand each other the same, I'm an aprecior against the legalization of any drugs, so that's also easy, if we can use the concept of easy drugs at all. All drugs should be listed in the Penal Code and then it should appear in the Penal Code of Dissistance, for example, between one joint, marijuana, heroin, etc. But the more we talk, the more I get the impression that it's getting worse on our streets every day. There's another problem. Clearly, it is easy to call out others. It's always the easiest thing to call others. But the problem is that somehow I see what parents are silent about. Instead of saying the words, saying what hit them, pointing the finger at the one who poisons their children, we simply, somehow or they don't find themselves, silently, shut themselves up and simply run away from it. Those of us who have children, we have a little problem. The next day when they come to the age of 14,15,16,17 or I don't know how many years, that problem can, don't let God escalate with us. It's clear what should be sanctioned in particular, it's a smuggling that happens next to our schools. And there simply shouldn't be any mercy. Understandably, those involved should be left without property. We don't know who these big drug dealers are. It's as if we're blind, as if we don't see, who lives, how much time is spent, how much time does he spend on yachts, where he lives, how much he spends. And on the other hand, I'm going back to that repressive apparatus, either directly or indirectly of 150 thousand people. That the crisis that I'm making is that we're not in Europe yet, even when it comes to drugs, it says that there's a cocaine addict who appears in Europe 8.65%, in Croatia "all" or even 1.97%. Whether it's just a crisis or a higher society elite, we're letting it go, like, on another occasion. On page 10, it's about smuggling. Here we have, among other things, given and priced. So says cannabis purity, so I know how much there is, from 3 to 11 euros, marijuana from one to 12 euros. In Croatia, one gram of marijuana moves between 1.5m and 4m euros, hashishes between 5m and 7m euros, I don't know amphetamines, the price is stable, ranging between 10m and 20 euros. And Croatia monitors the above data, one gram moves between 10 and 15 euros, etc. So it's like we're on the payroll and we get the price of it all. The purity of the brown heroin sample ranges between 15% and 30% and the price of one gram ranges between 30 and 80 euros. White heroin samples as much as it costs between 31 and 151 euros, etc., etc. It's almost like we're on the payroll. But it's a good thing we got that data, because it's certainly a crime where there are no "more divisions" on Croats, Serbs, Bosniaks, Albanians, Roma, Istrians, etc. We're all the same here, and somehow we come to the fact that one addict is either in a family or in a society, or I don't know who, at least a thousand to 2,000 euros. So that's clearly about this extra crime, with the theft, everything else. But what we need most to worry about. Why is he keeping quiet? Why, say, the police aren't more effective, so that whole repressive machine? How effective is health care at all with regard to this resociation? And clearly why parents keep their mouths shut? It can't be like I said before, just on the other finger, like you don't do your job well, Parliament doesn't work well, the government doesn't work well, the police don't work well, and on the other hand we see that parents who have the biggest problem then shut up. And yet it's understandable to all of us the same goal, to contain that vice of vice. Okay, the methods are different. I'd be extremely radical here. But I think, another detail. When it comes to all of this, I think we need to be maximum and budgetary, meaning that the institutions involved in this vice, the communities, these health services. Because you have to admit that drugs don't always happen to other people. On page 15, we're given one plate, number of persons treated. 95th was 989 persons, 2007. Five thousand 703, 2008. Five thousand eighty-two people. So, you have to say, you have to admit that something is still going on about it. For the first time, they were treated for the opiate type of addiction here, we see that for the first time in 2000, 2001, something was dropping today. Is that trend a sign that it falls to say that it's not an interest in that monster, but to have a drug problem, about that to some other time, maybe next year when we get that report back? It's another interesting piece of information, just to find it, on page 154 where it's said what and what are the activities of the Ministry of Health, Social Care, Ministry of Science, Justice, etc. where, among other things, it's about resociation and so on. However, let me conclude. We have to help people get back to life. How easy it is to say. These people who gave themselves up to that vice should in some way be hired because the only way we can get them off the street is by layman's means to heal myself and return to society. What's going on with that drug? Everybody's kind of going round and round. First the drug experiment goes on, then the theft goes on, then the dealing, then the prison, then the treatment, then the dealing, then the stealing, then the prison, and in the end, often with many, it ends with death. That's what that road means from experimenting to eating. In order for this chain to break in here, it is also necessary to put in business, rehabilitation, treatment, clear repression, but we need to enable these people to return to the family again through some work, they return to society because without a job, it will not happen clearly. I know it's easy to say, at a time of this crisis it's very difficult to do, to hire a treated addict in these small environments where everyone knows it's almost impossible, but maybe it's something that should be dealt with more recently by the state itself. So let us give these people the opportunity to return to their families and society as a whole after successful treatment. The IDS Club will support this report, I think it's quality, well, extremely extensive, and we'll see what the results will be next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40581	Thank you. All I have to do is intervene from your debate where you said there are about 150 thousand people in Croatia in the repressive apparatus. We can't say that retired police officers are a repressive apparatus, that it's members of the Croatian Army that it's a repressive apparatus. Don't let God get to that, dear representative, you know best what that would mean if the judges were a repressive apparatus and that the MUP had over 35,000 employees. There are about 27, 28 thousand employees, about 18 thousand police officers who are truly the only repressive apparatus. And please, make sure we don't send a message to the world that Croatia of 4.5 million inhabitants has 150 thousand people in the repressive apparatus. It's not going to work that way. Thank you very much. We're moving on with the club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Branko Crljenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40582	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In the register of persons treated for the abuse of psychoactive drugs of the Croatian Institute of Public Health who monitors all data on people treated for drug abuse in the healthcare system by the end of 2008, a total of 27 thousand 420 people were registered. The number of newly treated subjects decreases, primarily due to opiate addiction. Even though the drugs in society are increasingly available and cheaper, there is no significant increase in the number of addicts. However, not knowing about drug abuse is alarming. Apart from tobacco and alcohol, parents are the result of the failure of state mechanisms and neglect of prevention. Studies have shown that parents of today's primary and secondary school students in 80% of cases do not know what the joint consists of, not what Extasya tablets look like. They don't even know that in every drugstore, they can buy simple and cheap saws to detect drug consumption in their children. Home and school are the original places where children have to, should not already have to get the necessary knowledge of the devastating consequences of drug consumption. The responsibility of school principals, educators and psychologists in this context is even greater than parenting. Their moral obligation is to make their parents an imperative commitment to obtaining at least the most basic concepts of the dangers posed by drugs in the family and the state community. In practice, however, that element has been neglected and the conscience stands down because of new imposed work and obligations. Rare enthusiasts are the exception. The truth about the state's insufficient concern for its young citizens, for the perspective and future of Croatia, is unknown to the general public. A lot of the share in this negative context has parents. With their head in the sand, they often run away from the reality that is happening before them and cannot accept the objective possibility of their child being drugged. The second group, so that group of about 27 thousand addicts, undisputed, has a relatively better treatment. An addict lives in eternal fear that he will not be able to secure a daily dose and think only about drugs. Every day, he constantly commits crimes of buying and possession of drugs. In 90% of cases, other crimes, theft, robbery and others are committed because they cannot otherwise obtain the substantial and constantly needed drug resources of between 15 and 50 euros a day. That is why this group is easily identified and self-exclusived from the general community's tissues. The effects of drug abuse are various diseases. Hepatitis, pulmonary disease, broken liver, AIDS, scars and ferocious fixed wounds, rotten teeth because heroin anaesthetizes pain, so there are no caries warnings, etc. An elderly addict, late 20s or early 30s, has only years of drug savagery and nothing more. Unless death of overdose occurs after 10-15 years of drug abuse, an addict is most often tried to stop due to physical damage and complete psychological breakdown. But very few addicts manage to get rid of drugs. If they do not re-reciprocate most often stay on welfare because they do not know how to work, they have no occupations or work habits. It's clear to all of us that this is a group of people who need help and who get that help from the state. On the contrary, young potentials, as holders of life and development of Croatia, today's pupils of primary and secondary schools are not sufficiently educated about the harmfulness of drug consumption. Programmes or projects that do not offer a elaborate scheme with numerically defined lectures and workshops within a certain period and at a certain age are only endless delays. In doing so, the education of parents and teachers is inevitable. The necessary funds for such concrete programmes are far less than those spent on addicts, and the benefit for the community is incomparably greater. The drug breach on our premises is clearly escalating, especially marijuana and synthetic dance drugs. It is known that in addition to the physical damage to this teenage drug, they damage the brain, act on memory and on working discipline. Changes in the light of the world, obligations and responsibilities come into play. It's fun and a waste of time in the first place. Infrequently, joints and candies, i.e. ecstasy, result in weak grades, school leaving, and moving towards addiction. If the competent authorities do not make radical changes in primary prevention, i.e. do not organise a much better education in schools, we will have an increasing growth of weak students and poor workers without ambition to advance, and thus we will not reach our European role models. No doubt he's so-called. primary prevention, education in puberty in primary and secondary schools neglected. Compared to the correct care of those 27 thousand addicts, the protection of invaluable, far more numerous, complete populations of children and young people is insufficient. The sooner it is necessary to change the rooted opinion that the prevention of drug abuse is just a concern for addicts. Drug abuse is a problem that can affect any young man, and hence his family and the wider environment. The result of drugs caused by individuals, families and communities is considered one of the most difficult sociopathological phenomena of today. Every young person is able to get in touch with drugs, whether he has much or little money, whether he was raised strictly or leniently. The motives of young people who start using drugs are many and different. Curiosity, inability to solve conflict situations and so forth. A third of young people enter the world of drugs because of false information that drugs are not harmful and dangerous. The problem has also been proven to be the trombone of parents, with their children facing problems, and one of the major problems of this type is certainly the problem of drug consumption. The Republic of Croatia faces the problem of drug abuse as well as criminal activities, organised international drug trafficking groups. The problem is complex due to the geographical position of our country, which is the shortest road connection from the countries of the drug producers to the consumer countries. The prevention and fight against drug abuse is a very complex activity that requires a good knowledge of the problem and the continuous and coordinated action of all social factors both on the plan to prevent drug demand and on the plan of disabling drug supply and raising the overall social awareness of drug harmfulness. It is known that in drug prevention, one of the basic requirements is adult education, especially parents and teachers, how to deal with the dangers threatened by the youngest from drug abuse. Statistics show that adults or parents and families learn that their child is an addict only after two to three years. The number of heavy heroin addicts in Sibenik-Knin County is double the national average, and given the total number of residents per number of treated addicts, the highest rate of people treated for opiate addiction to 100,000 inhabitants has Zadar County, followed by Istria County, Sibenik-Kninska. According to data, 71.5% of deaths were associated with overdose in 2008. An increase in heptanone overdose was observed in the observed period. In 2008, 20 deaths from heptanone overdose were reported, about 17.2%, therefore, in 2008 according to incomplete data. In order to establish systematic work to prevent drug abuse, it is necessary to ensure the creation, implementation and sustainability of quality prevention and early intervention programmes. In doing so, it is important to cultivate a multidisciplinary approach and to develop different forms of cooperation between institutions for education and education, health, social care, family and religious institutions, state attorneys, judiciary, NGOs and local communities. Particular attention should be paid to early detection of drug consumption among children and young people, and the possibility of testing intoxicated drugs should be considered by respecting the dignity of a person, professional ethics and the Constitution of guaranteed individual rights. Finally, the SDP club accepts this Report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40583	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40584	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's what I'd do to correct the incorrect quote of my colleague, Blackie, when he claims there's no sufficient concern for the state. On the contrary, Mrs. Crlenko, because the report shows that we have a very stable and good system in the fight against drugs, intoxicating drugs. The reports also show that the condition in Croatia is such that the percentage of treatment is due to opiate dependence on growth, but is also due to treatment for non-intoxication in decline. We were equally able to see what everything and what efforts it put into expansion and networks, not only the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse but also the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40585	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Đurđa Adlesic, vice-president of the Croatian government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40586	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We listened very carefully to the presentation of the MPs. I have to say, here's an interesting fact that this is exactly what they were talking about except for Kai's exclusive representations on behalf of the clubs. Well, that's what I'm saying because of another piece of information that's equally statistically interesting, which you warned about speaking for the clubs. And that's the trombone of parents, according to the esteemed representative of the Blackie. Parents' meetings, and they generally address for help only when warned by police or school, in 90% of the cases come mothers. It's a piece of information that we all need to imagine because a child needs both parents. I thank Representative Klaric for this correction I have also prepared. Since our model against addiction in the European centre and in Brussels has also been given the best reviews of what representatives of all political parties who have had the opportunity to hear. Of course, however, this does not mean that we should just be satisfied and stop working on that program. I thank all the clubs that support this report, so to all of you, and I especially thank the MPs who have very precisely detected the areas in which we still have to work. It's a resociation or retraining, which is what MP Kalash was talking about. Also, MP Petir warned of the necessary measures to encourage employment, which the government is implementing, which it is working on, but also needed to work on these programmes on county centres. You can't expect everything to go from country to country alone. Representative Crljenko warned of the trombone of parents who are a serious problem because of the fact that we had the opportunity to meet by working on these reports and getting information on who first reveals addiction to their youngest. The first, unfortunately, are the Ministry of the Interior, or the police. Second school, parent only third. The parents obviously need help like MP Hursa said. She needs help from her parents, needs help and teachers, especially in education, in identifying behavior, and then to whom to turn for help. It's a job where county centres work together, where the state works together through the ministries, which you've had a chance to see. I just need to draw attention to some inaccuracies brought out by Agent Cain in such a very lively discussion. Speaking of which, here's a reference to a sentence where he says we failed, the dead are getting more and more. It's not to the satisfaction of all of us exactly. In 2008, I repeat, 116 people died due to drug use, which is a terribly large and worrying figure, but compared to 2007, less by 29.7% when 165 people died mainly from overdose. So strategy and programs give results, we can agree with that, but of course we can't be satisfied until we have one dead. When we talk about the data that needs to be corrected, and it's important that both the representatives and the public know, the means on which it really wasn't saved. In 2008, 84 million 106 million 827 kunas were spent, the largest allocated funds in the last 5 years, with an increase of more than 26% compared to 2007. So the Croatian model that received support is of course very expensive. The information to turn to help is only after 4 to 7 years when they turn for help, or until the first occurrence in which young people are on average at 26 years old on average is the space where we have to work together. And in the next period, in the month's fight against addiction we will present new programs that are programs of work in schools, with schools and with parents who, unfortunately, speak only when they get a call and a parent comes mostly. Another piece of information when we talk about counties, which may also have something to do with statistics when we count it. I'm sorry there are no representatives of Caine, but I'm going to say that unfortunately Istra, the town of Pazin refused to share the space of therapy with the women's therapy community, so the funds from the CARDS programme were lost. They're back. Unfortunately. I hope something like that doesn't happen in other counties anymore. We will, of course, be careful and continue to listen to your debate, and I expect that once I see it, we will work together on these educational programmes that should be presented within a month. Well, I'm inviting MPs, but I'm inviting MPs to help us with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40587	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. And he's the first respected representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40588	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Deputy Prime Minister. I will begin my discussion with the report that in 2008 27 thousand 345 people were registered in the treatment system, probably covered in that category by what we call occasional consumption and addicts together. So this is what is recorded, people who have either appeared themselves or in a different way were covered by one of the measures or methods of treatment. Experts dealing with drug and drug markets always say that we need to multiply this white number by 5 to understand how many people are covered by this evil. So it turns out that we actually have about 150 thousand people in Croatia who could be classified as temporary or occasional consumers or addicts. There is a difference between those who appear as temporary or occasional drug users and those who are addicts. Mrs. Adlesic mentioned that in 2008, the state invested 84 million kunas in various programmes, and that is significant progress but I took on another bill, if we take into these 150 thousand that occasional consumption and addicts, daily consumption of 40 kuna is the average, the annual drug market is about 3 billion kuna. So, with 84 million kunas, we're fighting a market worth about 3 billion kuna, that's our reality. I'll talk about the repression and the repression data when there's a police report and a state's attorney's office. On data and programmes from the domain of treatment and healthcare when this topic is special, I just have to mention that Croatia lost 2 to 3 years, when there was an intense conflict of two doctrines on how to approach treatment, then it was among those who advocated communicable and financed only communes and those who advocated methadone therapy in difficult addicts and only methadone therapy. By following back a year and a half, it seems to me that there has been some compromise and that these conflicts that have often been and on a personal level are no longer and will not be. So in my debate, I will look back at the prevention in that part of the school program. School preventive programmes that began in Croatia in 2000, according to what I saw in this report in the Department of Education, Science, Education and Sports from the very beginning, did not move one millimeter and this is the weakest link of prevention in Croatia. The educational plan and the basic and secondary education programme shall contain preventive school programmes. Nine years of demands from the educational authority that school prevention programmes be part of the curricula and programmes did not bear fruit due to bureaucrat resistance in the ministry, the heads of school prevention programs, which for years gave a lot of themselves and never got their time to get that job into their classroom. Funding school preventive programmes at the Ministry of Education has not been systematically solved for 9 years. By following and working on this project, I've met a number of people and any resistance to why individuals are against it, I've realized that in this Ministry, it's decided on the subject and why it is today. There are parts of schools that have gone far but not thanks to the system but thanks to the enthusiasm of either the principal, whether the educators of school or other teachers and teachers who have accepted to be head of school prevention programs and the systematic solution is persistently rejected and so long as the preventive school programme will not be part of the curriculum and programme, while the head of the school prevention programme will not be an employee of the school with that task that enters his captain's monthly fund hours and while the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Education will not have an item of regular funding of such programmes much will not be done. With that part of school prevention programs facing students still working that way, but the problem is parents. In small areas, drug addiction as well as any other similar problem in Croatia is still a taboo issue, attempts to discuss this topic at school meetings fail, parents do not want to face the fact that they need to discuss it, to be present and help their children, and can only help when they are educated. The teacher, head of a preventive school program, student and parent only then can we expect serious shifts and results. Look at the age structure data, and when according to the surveys conducted, in which age children come in contact with drugs, who have tried drugs once or twice or who know who the occasional consumer is. 12 years, 12 years. The time of initiation of treatment is 5 to 7 years. So, from kindergarten to kindergarten. Do not leave it to the counties and county commissions to torture themselves with a preventive school programme, it must be a centralised system of planning and funding. Winter Spring, school holidays every school has to leave an open door with different school programs, because when children are free then they are most often exposed to the risk of getting in touch with those who can get into that horror. And eventually cured addicts, whether it's been seven, eight years, through a commune or in a different way, have been stripped and cured. The problem of their resociation begins with employment. The Employment Office has programmes for different categories of the weight of employed citizens, you know, whether there is a programme to encourage employers to hire cured drug addicts about alcohol or similar problems. People, employers resent the employment of that category. Sometimes justifiable, sometimes because of prejudice, non-information and false information. Huge money, effort and involvement of a large number of experts to heal one person, and when that process is over, he doesn't have a great future unless he finds a job. Therefore, an integral part of prevention must be the part of the state government that designs and provides money for putting and allowing these people to be active in the labour market and to be employed. Otherwise after a year, we can expect them as new figures in addict statistics.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40589	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. First respected representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40590	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's to correct Mr. Lesar's claim that the school's prevention programs haven't moved one millimeter. Inaccurate Mr. Lesar, exactly the opposite because the school prevention programs are actually making up every educational institution. From kindergartens through elementary schools to high schools and actually in 3 levels. As part of regular activity, leisure activities and leisure time. Also, as Deputy Prime Minister Mrs Adlesic stressed, pedagogical workshops, parlages, stands, targeted thematic lectures, as well as particularly stressed the importance of parental meetings are being held. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40591	Thank you. And now we have two replicas. First is the distinguished representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40592	Dear colleague Lesar exactly the opposite of what counterpart Klaric has now said. Last year, according to this report, 226 thousand kuna were allocated for school prevention programmes. Less than 1 kuna per student. And I agree with you that we have not moved, with unfortunately going to happen when we talk about 2009 we conclude that we have moved backwards as well as in many other things regarding this government. In rebalancing, more than 60% cut funds for school prevention programs and what you're saying about including actually these to put some kind of formal position, so to speak, prevention programs you're right. However, the drafts of the new curricula do not go in that direction but do not involve it at all. So your finding that we haven't moved will unfortunately in the future turn into going back, that we actually have a full regression in preventive programs instead of moving forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40593	Thank you. And a reply to the replica by the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40594	Thank you, fellow Members, for reminding me of the new curricula, and not yet predicting that the school prevention program is part of the system. And you're right about the finding that we'll be able to only realize that we've moved a step but backwards. I really find it hard to understand why so much resistance to it. How much data, how many things have to happen that something educational government realizes that it has to be part of a system, not individual programs? It is not the Ministry of Education that will finance civil society or civil society organisations to implement some sub-programmes or programmes. It's good that the state and some of them finance. However, children are at school 4, 5, 6 hours a day. Contacting a child's parents at school is the place where first, fastest and most quality work can be done. And so long as those responsible for the education system, and unfortunately they often change so every change the minister has new education systems in this country, but not one of them I remember has really talked about or been present in the assembly when we talk about this problem, and they send an assistant advisor to the Department of Wrath for working meetings.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40595	Thank you. And another replica, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40596	I am not going to correct you because of those Croatian citizens who are following us because you have said a sentence that is very important, but it may not be clear enough. You said that a compromise was reached between those who advocated the exclusive use of medical treatment procedures and those who advocated exclusively the treatment communities. Here I have to say, and I'm a doctor, and I want to point out, that medicine and one doctor have never cured any addicts or completely gave up on addiction. Medicine is needed at the stage when overdose occurs to save life. After that, work takes over the community, and parents need to know. That's why it's important that you said that, but it's important that we also say what are the options of which segment of this program.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40597	Thank you. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40598	My colleague, Doric, thank you for this supplement or for the warning you gave, it is really important that the public understands because you are an expert in medicine and that is why your word and finding is very important, but I mentioned this problem because in Croatia 2, 3 years, this conflict took two different concepts and approaches first, and in the background it was that those who advocated one or another approach were in the leading or possible frontal positions, which decided on the distribution of money that the state had set out for it. So it seems to me that the struggle for money through position and money was in the background of the conflict of the two serious approach concepts. And therefore, I ask Mrs Adlesic if there are still things that are unknown to the public so far so I can't argue that any outwitting in all of this is that you have to harshly prevent, cut and prevent such potential conflicts from affecting the determination of the amount of money, and especially its use.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40599	Thank you. It's our guest, Mr. Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40600	Honorable Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister, Prime Minister, Secretary. I am extremely pleased, today are really I would say the strongest powers of government here when this topic is and when we are discussing this topic and in this way really gives meaning to this topic. As far as the report is concerned, I find it exhaustive and correct. It is a collection of statistics that I must say I think only partially show a real state of drug addiction in the Republic of Croatia. Although according to the report, the number of newly treated people decreases because I think it's not good, because of the total number of registered addicts, we all have 27% of those being treated, which I don't think is enough data. Because the number of addicts and drug dealers is unfortunately increasing year after year. For example, '94. In Croatia, there were estimated 41 000 users of some of the intoxicating drugs. Ten years later in 2004, according to estimates of certain competent institutions, the number of consumers increased to as much as 100,000 addicts. That's 20,000 of those who were registered addicts. In 2008, the number of registered addicts rose somewhere to 28 thousand or more specifically 27 thousand 420 persons as recorded here in this report. But they're registered addicts. These 27 thousand and 400, as I said unregistered addicts and drug dealers, are growing more and more every day. Because many see that in this area they can easily make a fast profit, get money in a cheap way, by dealing drugs. That's why I keep the alarm bell ringing, especially if we're wondering where our youth is going? What's their age anyway? And the normal question is what it is and how questionable our future is with such youth. That's why I appeal to the Office for Drug Control, then to the Ministry of the Interior, and especially to the justice that I consider to be too mild, and sometimes even over-indulgent in giving sentences on criminal police charges. To help our youth together, additional measures are being taken to prevent and stop the increase of drug dealers and drug addicts. I think that these very institutions that I've listed should be far more involved in local environments, local communities that I think have worked for as long as they've done for me and there's still not enough active in curbing intoxicating drugs right in their fields. I also think you should work more with the prison system administrations. Because according to the reports, we have data that no matter how many prisons some educational facility has been, that drugs are being introduced and that we have a prisoner not those who are addicts, but also new drug users. I think you should see how to stop it, because it's inadmissible to put drugs in jail. It is illogical that in 2008, our courts sentenced 20% less or less than 3,000 180 people compared to 2007, that the police filed fewer criminal charges in 2008, than in 2007, and the number of addicts and drug dealers is on the rise. Well, you know, if the police had more control over those rioting groups, they were running wild on sports grounds, then they'd come up with interesting indicators of just how many of the biggest riots they create, how much are you under some of the opiates or drugs. I don't think those who are even alcoholized less are making riots and about can be controlled more than those who are under some opiate. But I do believe that one big problem is that the police obviously in this area of drug trafficking have reduced their activities lately. I believe that it should do exactly the opposite to strengthen them in order to achieve better results in the field of drug dealing or opiate control. More or less in every neighborhood every kid knows who deals in drug dealing. Who are the dealers and the places where the drugs are sold and sold. In every neighborhood, I can especially talk about Zagreb. And we know that we also have neighborhood cops who, unfortunately, don't know it and are just bypassing those dealers and those drug dealing places. Why? I think the police should really see it if every kid knows it in the neighborhood. I walk a dog in my neighborhood and I can detect every person I know and know places, and I walk every night. It's pretty clear, there's nothing to be recognized, especially so that a neighborhood cop doesn't know and recognize the kind of person who deals with this business. Then why did the police give up more frequent driver checks, not just on alcohol, but on opiates. We remember that at one point they even checked it out. When it was introduced it was something, and then it was often checked not only for alcohol, but also for various opiates. I know it costs money, but I don't think the police are allowed to save. That it's more of a shame if it saves on that than that, and that just through the driver's checks, it also eliminates addicts who are endangering our lives in traffic. The particular problem I'm going to raise here is the employees. It's a problem for workers who are under the influence of intoxicating drugs at work. According to the Report on treated persons, such permanent employment workers are 37.6% and occasional employment is 12.7%. So when self-employed or self-interest is added to it, then we get over 50% of those employees who are treated by some of the opiates. That's not so bad on this number in the report, because that number's not that big. But what does it reflect? It reflects the situation in our society, which is very, very similar to this report that is here as far as the day is concerned. Now, that's alarming data. These are data that are very damaging to society, as well as data that destroys our economy, economy, economic development, etc. Imagine a bus driver, a train, a boat, or a plane that drives under the influence of the opiate. I cite these examples because workers of such a profession carry out tasks that directly depend on the safety of our lives. According to my knowledge, and I've tried to get some knowledge, I'm not going to name them here, not to hurt anyone, even though I don't rule out other professions other than those I've listed here right now. There are individuals who are treated for addiction, which is for every praise and there is a society to support, no matter what profession he works in if a man realizes that he needs help, that he wants to be treated, that is. And I appeal to employers not to fire such people. It's just that they're helping people like that. It's human and it's human. But what about those who conceal their addiction? They're basically a real bomb and a danger to this society. The report mentions legal regulations, in particular the Labour Protection Act, which allows employers to verify the working ability of workers, the testing of addiction. But it rarely implements any company and company because it saves on it. I think it's a barren savings employer. I've never heard of it personally in case the work protection inspection was checked by a worker or manager at any company, whether he was under the influence of some of the drugs or addictions. I'm calling for a work protection inspection to do this job, and there'd be some interesting data if they did that kind of checking. And finally, with this to end, my proposal would be to supplement the Labour Protection Act, the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse in a way that determines a list of professions that would be in the treatment of mandatory testing on individual addictions several times a year, and I especially think about those professions that in some way depend on the safety of the lives of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40601	Thank you. It is up to Commissioner Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40602	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, the State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. A country where there are so many drug users, a country where there are so many drugs, is certainly not a country where happy people live. We should, we've heard a lot about how to resolve the consequences here. It seems to me that the report is doing a good job. However, what are the root causes, above all, of the growing need for drug use, and of the second that our drug control policy has been fully put in place. Those are basic questions and then all this comes after that. The underlying cause must be a deep conflict of an individual, especially a young man with a society like this. It's an inadequate resistance, but it's still the resistance of young people. Secondly, an inadequate way to set up a fight against this evil and this monster. We have seen what is essentially happening, that policy so far has not led to adequate results, that since we have so many strategies and specific tasks of individual ministries that unfortunately the number of drug users has increased, it has almost expanded. And unfortunately, that's exactly what Zadar County has foreclosed on by the number of drug users. There's more and more drugs on the market, it's everywhere. There has been a mention here that unfortunately there are in prisons, that unfortunately there are even easier to get to the drugs that support there due to drug abuse. It's one big absurd. How do you end it? How do you deal with narcotics, drug cartels, drug dealers? Those who stand at the top of that pyramid are repressive for our entire system and the judicial ones remain untouchable. However, they are often benefactors, they are prominent citizens who are never in any way and never themselves drug users. How do we get here, how do we help the repressive system get to those people? In a way that he was placed primarily in criminal law. As we conduct criminal justice policy, it has led to our police and judicial system simply atrophied. Every day of 8 o'clock, from 9 o'clock go to municipal courts all over Croatia you will see confused young men and girls who do not understand the seriousness of criminal prosecution and who fall under criminal repression and who do. These people are for this government, for this society dangerous criminals. They first need to see the victims of these dangerous criminals who remain outside criminal repression. The data is impertinent, the year-to-year ones show that you've set things wrong. In 1996, when our leading national weeklys announced the ways to come and who deals in Croatia, then the government felt called because these weeks clearly spoke the way of drugs, that drugs were coming to Croatia and under whose patronage all this was happening. I repeat, the government felt called upon by these articles that were common and retaliated at the time. In what way? In 1997, the so-called Minicasual legal reform is introduced for the first time into our criminal trial or our criminal law, in the legal order of drug possession as a dangerous crime. Okay, that's how the government responded. What are the consequences of what we have today? To keep young people on drugs, to a greater extent, to atrophy the prison system, to be sent to prisons, to schools of crime because prisons are overcrowded, so any overtreatment is almost unnecessary because these young men and girls primary delinquents are often in rooms, in cells with hard criminals. And so, we sent them to a great lesson. Instead of the system being set up so that it reacts immediately in a way of course and shows society that it does not agree with such behaviour, that it is dangerous for themselves, for the family and for the society to be held accountable but primarily to include mandatory treatment. That's the point. And besides, they would have them as precious, preserved as precious witnesses in the discovery of the chain and the discovery of the pyramid, and to the top of the pyramid who gave it to them, in which way, which are at the top. Because for the first time in your life, they're consumers, and then they're street dealers. They are at the bottom of the pyramid and we sanction that bottom and the top remains untouchable. That's what we've been telling you for seven, eight years and more. We had a system that was set up differently in 2003. The answer was that drugs were dangerous. It's true. So we don't send a message to young people in such a way that it's harmless behavior, but it's an inadequate reaction to what leads to this situation that is devastating, year after year it's defeated. More and more indicate the mistakes of such a policy. Namely, here's your statistics. Of the crime of drug abuse more than 2/3, in fact, 80% now, a few years ago it was 72, 73, 75, now almost 80%, our courts are exhausted in possession, in the easiest form, in processing and punishing drug possession. So what do we have to answer that? A few years ago, a completely inadequate government reaction that has already been passed, changes to the Penal Code where even the slightest addition to another drug is considered a trade where a minimum of three years has been prevented without the possibility of mitigation. Those who deal with it, or by suppressing, even in repressive bodies, and in the judiciary, they manifested themselves. The judiciary then made it clear to you that it was simply nonsens, to send a young man and a girl for the first time for three years to an education where, in prison. And what do you have an answer for? That's what they told you. Because what my colleague Kunst is saying is why there are fewer reported, more drug users, and less reported, because both police and state attorneys are using the Institute of Insignificant Crime and are not reporting. But it's not good that they have to react that way, because then you have an unequal criminal policy. Someone's going to come to justice in the same way, be that young man or girl convicted, the other won't. That's why things really need to be set up. Some talk was about how the government could propose changes in an adequate way to prevent this evil, so that just those who light this evil would come into the hands of justice, and those who first treated their victims and acted preventively against them. Here, that's one way to set things up because this way from year to year, by reading this report, we see that in that sense, it's getting more and more devastating. So this is not a conflict of any policy, this is a way to start reacting as anyone would react if we were here, every father and every mother in their own home with this problem would look for causes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40603	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. It's the esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40604	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's an incorrect quote from Mrs. Prosecution that states that nothing has been done. As if you hadn't read this report, because the vice president herself said that 30% of the deaths were low, and you could also read the report of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Addiction with this report that is really great. If nothing else, you could read that during 2008 there were 7500 people who had been treated for the first time during the treatment, representing the lowest proportion of newly treated subjects in the past ten years. And the number of newly treated subjects decreases, first of all, from opiate drugs. And it would have been really good if you'd read a set of this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40605	Thank you. And the second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40606	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the thing, even though the esteemed representative came out of the hall, so I won't be able to hear this, I have to make it clear to the public that she said it was the possession of drugs in '97. So many young people or many young people are put in prison. It's simply not true, because the possession of drugs has been found to be a criminal offence, but an easier form for which no prison sentence has been prevented. It is equally true that there is an institute of excruciating crime, which is therefore not a criminal offence if the circumstances of the initiation are so. It is not true that courts deal with 70 or 80% of these cases, but that the number of applications, but also the number of rejections from the state's attorney's office, is 80% in cases of such acts that have no consequence and the circumstances of the initiation as serious crimes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40607	Thank you. And it is up to the honourable representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40608	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Vice President, Secretary of State. This report on 165 pages, I dare say, is one of the best quality reports that can be given at all. Therefore, at first I point out that I will support this report anyway. As for the epidemiological situation in the Republic of Croatia, I will try to list those data that are not highlighted. It has already been said that 24,000 420 people are registered in the register of persons treated for abuse of psychoactive drugs. Among treated subjects, the majority of those who come for treatment due to the abuse of opiates have been continued. The proportion of opiate addicts among those who first requested treatment is 45.2%. As far as gender is concerned, it seems to me that this is not mentioned, the distribution of persons treated by sex has not changed significantly in 2008 compared to the previous years. Most of the treated persons are men, so 7506 total treated were 83% male and 17% female. As for the ratio between treated men and women, it is 4.9:1 and has also not changed significantly over the past years. The average age of treated subjects in 2008 was 30 years. The rate treated in the Republic of Croatia is almost the same as the year before and is 251.4 treated persons per 100,000 adults. I don't think the station health facilities were mentioned either. In 2008, 13.5% more people were treated in station health institutions than in 2007, and the number of hospitalizations that were from the number of hospitalizations in 2007. It increased from 1.2 hospitalization per person to 1.3 times per person. As far as education is concerned, it seems to me that this is not mentioned, data on the acquired education of opiate addicts show that the largest share of treated persons has completed high school, 4035 which means 69%. The primary school completed 837 or 14.3%. As far as college education is concerned, there are 157 treated for the abuse of opiates. Data on the acquired education of unsuspecting drug addicts show that the highest number of those treated is high school, which is 52.2% Motivation to go to treatment because of the abuse of psychoactive drugs is different from the means of addiction, and people treated for the abuse of opiates usually come on their own, which is 68.3%. An analysis of the data of deceased persons from 2000 to 2008 reported an increase of 177 deaths in 2000 to 165 deaths in 2007. In 2008, 116 people have been reported dead in connection with drug abuse. And just in conclusion about the resociation project. So the report on the implementation of the resociation project shows that it started to take place and that in 2008, a significant number of users were involved in the project than in the previous year. During the implementation of the project, problems have been identified that have made it impossible to include more treated addicts. First of all, these are problems relating to lack of public sensitisation, especially economics for resociation projects, but also lack of confidence in treated addicts who believe that if they discover their status they will not be able to achieve employment. Once again a big commendation to the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse, Mr. Klaric, next to the Croatian Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Secretary. Of course I'll support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40609	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40610	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the report actually shows that almost all, in fact, the resolution ministries have actively implemented the measures of the national strategy and action plan to combat the abuse of intoxicating drugs, as well as the observed good functioning of the outpatient treatment services. Unfortunately, as we all know, there is always an increase in the number of addicts from year to year and we can talk and be perfectly satisfied to talk about the success of the program only when we have a continuous drop in the number of addicts. It is also evident from this report that there is still a problem of unequal and segmented implementation of school preventive programmes, as well as a lack of cooperation from all institutions that provide assistance to drug addicts, which, of course, I find inadmissible. When we look at one side, everything is phenomenally implemented, it works, and on the other hand we have unequal and segmented implementation of school preventive programmes and insufficient cooperation of all institutions indicated. It's not really a logical relationship, or we actually have a strategy that's not being implemented properly, or it doesn't give good results, so whether it's a weak exercise or it's a bad one. As far as the data from the report itself is concerned, the data on the increase or decline of the number of treated addicts in the treatment system, i.e. the prevention and non-patient treatment departments, the specialised departments of psychiatry and communes, talk about the effectiveness of these services, or their capacitation, the number of experts working with addicts, the quality of services they provide, but do not talk about the movement of diseased addiction. There is one rule, for example, in this case when the number of registered opiate addicts is multiplied three to five times, and there is an approximate number of opiate addicts in an area. Here, for example. I'll take our county, Dubrovnik-Neretvanska with a number of 246 heroin addicts, and as we've seen five of them sent to the commune. What does not say here is that all these 241 are treated medically with various medicines that are either a substitute for heroin or prevent it from working. This would be great if they didn't know, which also doesn't say here, if they were mostly younger people, younger than 30. European practice has shown that these persons are only successfully treated with short medical therapy until abstinence has been achieved, and subsequently with long psychotherapy in stationed treatment systems, communicables, clinics and the like. In our case, what's happening is actually called maintenance, patients, we give them drugs for the sole reason they don't reach for legal drugs, so they're given this way. Who's making money here? The patient is maintained in a sick state, they are denied the possibility of full recovery. I don't even have to say that part of that drug that's legal ends up on the street in illegal sales to those who are gray or black numbers, and that prevents them from going into the treatment system, and it won't even be registered. So there's that number times three, or times five. This is also happening because medical therapy is very often conducted in the wrong way. Namely, medicines are given in the hands, not in the mouth as prescribed by the rules of the profession, and then they deal with these medicines. Then something about the data on the increase or decline of the number of arrests of drug-owned persons also speaks about the effectiveness of police in their area, then about teamwork, organisation. We also see how many specialized police officers there are, and so is the technology they have, but there is no talk about the movement of disease, the number of addicts, experimentators, etc. Data on the increase or fall of the number of persons processed in possession or reselling of intoxicating funds within the judiciary and the judiciary also speak of the quality of the material and procedural laws adopted, and of the sublegal acts regulating this area, and of the teamwork of the State's attorney and court in certain areas, and of their education in this area in the decision-making of the measures. Of course he's not talking about the movement of the disease. In addition to this education and quality of the work of these services goes part of the report which says that 41, in fact, 43.1% of minors arrested in possession of intoxicating funds have been rejected from application according to the principle of purpose, i.e. they are sent to counselling, it is in the department of prevention, i.e. off-patient treatment of addiction. Well, when they did, there was a rejection, and now that we're watching, that's great. But they were not meant to be punished, but to work on their reason for experimenting. It's a parenting measure again. Unfortunately, in the report, the same sentence goes immediately: “18 or 8% of the total criminal charges reported have been rejected because of the insignificantness of the crime, which in practice means that minors have been found with a minimum dose of drugs, most often marijuana, that they have never been reported for criminal activity and the work is of little importance and there are no harmful consequences.” In this way, discarding the principle of purposefulness and rejection due to insignificantness of the act reduces repressive access to people who owned intoxicating drugs for their own use. However, anyone who deals with minors or helps them grow up and mature knows that a minor who has been arrested and with the lowest amount of drugs is a highly risky person for the development of disease and addiction. The fact that he is no longer in relapse means that after arrest, he will become more cautious, and the development of a chronic type of disease when addicts are very visible and recorded in various services occurs mainly after 20 years of life. Of course, as such, they are no longer actually treated as minors. It is interesting then that this report, when talking about the European movements of a particular type of drug, refers to the survey indicator, which speaks of systematic monitoring of the incidence of disease addiction through research, through some studies. It's the only way to get an approximate incidence of disease, addiction with us. Unfortunately, in this report, I did not notice that trend with us in the ministry except in establishing some departments that should be a way of working. We still misread the statistics of individual services in the system of repression and treatment, as indicators of the monitoring of disease of addiction and not as an analysis of the work of these services. Also one small conclusion that has been carried out from this report, the emphasis of monitoring consumption is still heroin addicts although in fact most, even though we know that it is no longer a drug but a stimulating drug team of Cocaine, amphetamine, Methamphetamine, Ecstasy, drug consumption today is more of a sport that happens occasionally at parties, before sex, before sports activities rather than an old way of heroin clogging in dark streets and rooms. I see I've got a red light somewhere, then I'll cut it short. A short time ago, the Vice-President said that the aim was to reduce supply, i.e. reduce demand, and reduce supply by repression and reduce demand by prevention. It is also from the discussion, I think that you stressed that it is very necessary to help parents, or to help teachers, to return to education and I am just supporting that the school prevention program cannot remain at the stage at which it is, but must be part of the curriculum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40611	Thank you. It is next to the honourable representative of Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. It is up to the honourable representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40612	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Vice President with his associates. This is one big one, I would say for many well-intentioned very grateful subject because it can and should achieve consensus on all those who deal with education, prevention and curativeness of this extremely important and very pronounced social problem. The Republic of Croatia has the misfortune that it is geopolitically or geographically positioned on some routes serving narcotics in the Western European and Northern European markets. In this respect, it is irrelevant that the Republic of Croatia has a very long divorced state border, it is not important that there are all organised crime systems in the Balkans that rest on the trade and distribution of drugs. In that sense, the role of the Republic of Croatia is certainly great, I would say, in some things crucial when it comes to the state of the drug market in Western and northern Europe. That is why, with everything that we must do to prevent drugs from coming to the Croatian market, we must be aware that we are helping many others in Europe, because everything we do not see, what we do not sanction in principle, can end up in other countries and be fatal to youth in Europe. It is not good if all power, strength, will and money are concentrated only or mostly on curative programs. The fact is that the state can't do everything by itself, the fact is that the NGO, NGOs can and can do in terms of prevention, but also a part of the curative work with far less money than it is on the disposition of official state bodies. In this context, this communication and cooperation should be constantly strengthened and made possible in the NGO sector as much as possible, the more active it is on this problem. However, we must be aware that the non-governmental sector rests mainly on enthusiasts, on people of good faith, on volunteers who have come directly or indirectly to this social problem. Among the activists of NGOs is a multitude of former addicts, including many members of the family of former or current addicts. However, it seems to me that there is not enough sensitivity and the incentives of the state itself to include this area of non-governmental action as many volunteers as possible who are not necessarily involved or directly or indirectly in this problem, but who can significantly help to implement education and prevention policies more effectively. This report, or a small part of him that he would like to look back on, which is the part that concerns the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity, shows some contradictory information. On the one hand, the ministry boasts that the work of 37 youth clubs in the Republic of Croatia has been financed, and 4 macro-regional youth information centres. However, it is said in the next sentence that these were not necessarily meant for prevention programmes, but that these were funds intended for the work of these clubs. If we put in line a million-and-a-half kuna amount of 37 youth clubs in the Republic of Croatia in 2008 we will reach a defeat figure of less than 40,000 kuna per club. We do not need to convince each other that with 40,000 kunas it is not possible to do almost anything excessive, and especially not permanent. I'm afraid the programs are concentrated mainly on the month of the fight against addiction, and that's not good. It's only one month a year, and I'm afraid the work of these activities is about the convenient activities they aim to commit to a certain date in June when it's about to fight addiction, that is, the moon itself. Why are youth clubs extremely important? You shouldn't be particularly smart, wise, you just need to look at what practice is in other countries. We should go to Slovenia and see how many youth clubs they have. We need to go to larger European cities and see how their multifunctional youth centres work, and we will see that they are stops for phenomenal free time programmes, active leisure, but also for a whole series of prevention and education programmes. I would like the Government of the Republic of Croatia to understand and accept the possible role of youth clubs, but not only these 37, but many more of them who need to be helped to establish themselves and act as key points from which they can act on a permanent basis, from which not only experts can act but also activists of the NGO sector, from which all young people who want to spend their time actively, particularly on peer assistance, on self-help, and then on co-ordination of work in local schools. I'm sure the Youth Club Institute can be very helpful. Especially if it has quality spaces and sufficient resources. Otherwise, it will focus on local initiatives that work on weekends, which work conveniently, which work from concert to concert, and thus we have not achieved the purpose. I would therefore like to take this task seriously and the Ministry of the Family as a parent ministry, as well as the Ministry of Science, which also implements formal education programmes not only educational staff but also parents as they boast here. But if all the action on marking the month against addiction comes down to the ministry instructing the county to find two cities where the action "Creativeivity against Drugs" will be carried out, then we give a big shower to our own desires and intensities to help young people. We know very well how many cities in Croatia, multiply the county minus the City of Zagreb, it is 20 with 2 cities, you will get a fact that is simply ridiculous, which is that the action was carried out in 40 out of 400 and some units of local self-government. Each kuna invested in prevention and activities of people considered part of the NGO sector is worth around 4 kuna. And if we're aware I'm going to help expand the front of the fight against addiction, to get closer to a larger number of young people who are in constant death because drugs today are unfortunately very cheap and very available and to oppose numbers. We can convince ourselves that they are getting better and better, but we know very well that the official statistics of our activities, our activities do not cover the whole problem and certainly do not include all addicts and those who are under attack. Everything we do doesn't work for ourselves, we do for our children, and every kuna will be paid to heaven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40613	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. She's gone? He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40614	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy Prime Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to say, first of all, that in the report in front of the HNS, you heard that we're going to support this report, but I'd also like to say a few words of criticism at the expense of the report. I've been sitting in this House for six years, and I have to admit that 90% of the annual reports, not just this, don't think that's just about this report, but generally I'm saying they're essentially made by copy-pass technology. Same titles, same subtitles, similar charts, tables, pictures. I regularly participate in the debate, at least by this point, because I find it extremely important and I would like a few notes here. Look, every year over a hundred lives are shut down for an overdose. Every year we have similar data related to the distribution of drug abuse, I mean local and regional self-government, more or less are always mentioned in the same county, the same cities. We receive similar data every year with preventive measures and therapeutic procedures. Every year we talk about the need for certain elements to be improved in criminal proceedings. Every year we talk about the need for better resociation. Every year we talk about the need to transfer good European experiences. We have now heard that next year we will also become a full member of the European Centre. Every year we talk about the need for better regional cooperation. Well, I'd like to hear something new after so many years, something different. What am I referring to? Namely, I'd like to know which programs were unsuccessful? Here, I'll just let the secretary of state finish, and I'd like to know what the programs we've funded so far are? 84 million kuna is big money, for me big money, which was unsuccessful and we will no longer finance it, which were successful and we will further finance it and try to transfer it clearly to other areas within Croatia. I would also like to know further which treatment communities were extremely successful, which were less successful and which we will finance reinforced, whose opening will we ask to be in other parts of the country? I heard a very significant piece of information from the vice president today. She said the opening of the center was denied in Pazin. I find that very important. We all have to help break such barriers, break through. It's an extremely significant project, and I'm sorry it happened. That's what we need to talk about. I'm interested in what didactic projects, education projects and school programmes were successful, which were less successful, which were unsuccessful. What schools were successful? Not that all schools in Pula are worse than all schools in Slavonski Brod. Because we talked about Istrian County in general. I believe that some deserve to be commended and also a reward for their work. So let's try to finally apply both carrots and ass. Let us try to objectively talk about those who are and those who are not successful. That's important. Let's try to be concrete, very clear and very specific. Let's try to shorten that period from an average of 4.5 years to the appearance of a young man in front of an expert who will help him. I don't believe it's the same case everywhere. Let's say again what centres in which cities, in which areas, in which institutions these results are, where they are worse. Let's not talk about averages, let's not generalize. That's not good. That's not good. Because we should commend and keep successful, and clearly stop funding those who are not. So I am not satisfied with these general findings, especially that the parameters related to the fight against drug abuse have stabilized, where the term used has been stabilised. Because then they probably also stabilised funding mechanisms, including those institutions and projects that were not successful. My colleagues and colleagues, it's my message, let's not let the fight against drug abuse become business. I repeat, let's not let the fight against drug abuse become business in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40615	Thank you. Five-minute debate, SDP club Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40616	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. State secretaries, vice presidents, colleagues and colleagues. There's no sure man in this assembly, so I'd say there's no responsible man in this society who's not for the war on drugs being fought successfully and efficiently. That drugs are evil, I believe we all agree. That evil should be won, and we all agree. By reading this report and the indicators that are listed in it, and less reported crime, and less convicted, and less treated, and even less, it could be the impression that we are winning this war. And I still don't think that's the case. We're afraid that war is slowly losing, because the drugs are growing, because they're getting more and more affected, but they just don't show up. It is recognised in this report that there is much in the gray zone, there is much that cannot be detected, there is much that cannot be entered in this report. The fact that we understand each other doesn't diminish the importance of this report, but it doesn't reduce our responsibility to the drug problem we're facing. What's he worried about? One piece of information about the total criminality of drug abuse goes to 75%. Which means we mostly fight the owners. 75% of crime cases. And I have to ask myself, along with all of us, who's our opponent? Are we opposed to them or are we opposed by the organizers and drug dealers? If our opponents are owners, then the results are phenomenal. But if our opponents are organizers and drug dealers, then our indicators are defeated. When it ends in court, we have the highest parole rate of 62%, then 26.7, then prisons only 6%. What do these numbers show? That these are banal acts and that courts then give parole or eventually fines. And the ones they put in jail, they're only 6%. You're supposed to be our target. They should be 75%. Which means we've been misdirected and these numbers can fool us and that in this fight we have to turn the direction of action, if we want to deal with this problem effectively. There was a word here about education. I'm thinking and calling on the government to consider the program, to consider the idea that the subject of addiction must be introduced into primary school for all eight years. Look out, it's not just drugs. There's alcohol, there's tobacco, there's especially new addictions. The phones, the computers, the whole new ones that bring technological development. Because only by education can we try to fix this defeat picture. The spread of drugs amongst the most endangered, among the adolescents. We'll treat them, heal them, try to cure them. With a small chance of success. But if we manage to preserve the most endangered adolescent population, and we can be most effective in education. Then at least in front of us, we'll be able to say in front of our conscience that we've tried to do everything we can. Until then, we won't have that right. Well, it's just one mandatory subject more. You usually learn about drugs in elementary school in one class along with alcohol and nicotine, 45 minutes. Well, that's too small. So that we can show young people what a hell of a drug means, they come in once and they'll never come out again. So here, on behalf of the SDP Club, consider this proposal, put it into some kind of strategy because it can only be an effective fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40617	Thank you. Final review by Deputy Prime Minister Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40618	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thank all the MPs and MPs who debated. And I consider it a truly significant success to be 30% less dead, but each dead person is one big loss, and that's why these numbers need to be kept working. I must say, I am very pleased with the way the Parliament has been debated here and that our political differences when it comes to these problems have been barely visible. However, due to some information that is not accurate, I will correct it for the public. In fact, some MPs have collected the number of addicts in previous reports so that they could actually reach numbers that were incorrect and that would rightly concern us. By the standards by which we can count and measure, we can speak of about 25 thousand addicts and that gray number but about 45 thousand who occasionally come in contact with some drug either weekend or some other process. So about 70,000 mostly young people have that problem. And what almost all MPs were talking about is the main goal that we have to set before ourselves, and that is that the number of 6 years in which they are mostly reported for treatment and until then many of them are no longer living is the number that we have to work together to reduce, not only by repression, but as the distinguished representatives spoke and the necessary education so help schools, help parents, it's a program that we're going to say next month. And I have to tell Agent Richembergh it's not gonna be a convenient program, but it's about the programmes that should be applied throughout the year and that should be done by certain clubs and associations that will be financed according to the quality of their programmes. When we talked about these 70,000 young people who come in contact with drugs, we can't put a group we call polytoxics. These are people who use different combinations of medicines, alcohol and other preparations, so it is very difficult to detect them. To help both parents and schools, we will adopt an amendment and a new drug law with a register of new substances that can be used as drugs and new drugs on the market next week or a few days behind the government. We believe that this will indeed be an important aid. This international co-operation certainly came to Croatia and was pleasant in Lisbon where representatives of other political parties heard that our model was one of the best models. We continue to bring national legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union in the area of drugs issues. Also, you can see that we could become a member of the MSDD at the beginning of next year. The possibility of opening regional training centres for guides and training of official dogs is all ways in which we want to reduce this black figure even more strongly. I hope that the next month, when we start with these programmes, we will have full support for the MPs regardless of our different political colors because this is a problem and reports that are repeated regardless of the government's composition, which will repeat that MP Doric has been sitting here for six years, some sitting and longer, the problem remains. The goal, of course, is to make this figure less and less every year. Thank you very much for your support and for your helpful suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-16-0.u40619	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. A report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2008, is submitted by the government. In line with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The 2008 report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan for the Prevention of Drug Abuse in the Republic of Croatia is accepted. a year." Please, let's get on with it. ... Who doesn't? ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Please vote. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Score. Unanimously, with 102 votes for the proposed conclusion.
