ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26902	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. In short, a few words about the proposal for a Customs Service Act. So first of all, what's going on with this bill? Therefore, arrangements shall be made, in part, to the administration of customs services, powers, responsibilities of customs officials, specialities in the workplace and material rights of customs officials and disciplinary proceedings. As regards the reasons for the adoption of the proposed law, I think we will all agree that, in any case, both the practice and the responsibility that is given and which is on the back and in front of the practically customs administration, it is in fact necessary to further improve the effective work of the customs service, the clear determination of the rights, obligations and responsibilities of customs officials, and also to put this law in the context of our accession to the European Union because further harmonisation of the entire Croatian customs system and the position of customs services as a whole with the customs system and customs services in the European Union. It should also be said that for this law and the general recommendations of the Special Unit for HITRORez in part of the customs service and the activities of the customs officers went so that we took a whole series of recommendations, in fact the proposals and suggestions of this body. What is wanted by this law? So, more effectively suppressing crime, all forms of smuggling, organised crime, terrorism, money laundering and the gray economy. Also, preventing abuse of customs control measures, as well as protecting the integrity of the state border, human health and safety, product safety, protection of intellectual property, cultural goods, protected plant and animal species, as well as supervision of dual-use goods. In addition, it is of course intended to speed up the flow of goods without jeopardizing the security elements, but to keep it going uninterrupted. By increasing the powers of customs officials of the customs administration of the Republic of Croatia, they would be more effective and more active in their role in the overall system of protection of the common customs territory and in carrying out measures and customs surveillance and verification actions. And finally, what it wants to achieve is the provision of material rights and working conditions for authorised customs officers to increase their powers, but also in any case the dangers ultimately, of course, of their lives. What's changing? What are the most significant changes, I would say improvements to the current Customs Service Act? In the part of the increase in powers, therefore for the purpose of detecting customs and other offences, as well as other criminal offences committed by breach of customs and other provisions whose enforcement is placed in the jurisdiction of the customs administration, it is proposed to increase the powers of customs officials in such a way as to give them greater authority to control all types of transfer and transport resources throughout the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia. Also, in order to strengthen the fight against smuggling and other forms of cross-border crime, if there are reasonable doubts about the enforcement of customs and excise offences or criminal offences, this law proposes that authorised customs officers, under the condition of course that special training has passed, may issue orders under certain conditions and also use the means of coercion. Also, changes in this law that are actually regulated in more detail than existing ones concern both material and other rights of customs officials, and are also related to, of course, these restrictions, i.e. the dangers that I said earlier, therefore related to death and permanent disability. In order to protect authorised customs officers who carry out smuggling and the fight against other forms of crime in international transport as well as their families, it is therefore proposed to allocate specific financial resources in the event of their death for their families, as well as for them in the event of permanent disability. Likewise, what should be specifically mentioned and mentioned in this proposal for a Customs Service Act, so it should be put in the context of a comprehensive strategy and in general the fight against corruption. Therefore, this law also provides for the adoption of rules implementing measures to be taken by the competent internal control service in the customs administration over the legality of the work of customs officials in customs proceedings. The establishment of disciplinary courts is proposed, and in order to make work more efficient and unique and objective, everything is ultimately for the sake of the independence and efficiency of the work of the same. It should be mentioned that all these are measures that are envisaged by the action plan that goes with the Anti-Corruption Strategy. This law also defines the work of customs officers outside the Republic of Croatia. A few words about it. Therefore, for the purpose of enabling operations to be performed at the call of international organisations or obligations arising from international obligations under law, it is provided for the possibility of sending customs officers under certain conditions outside the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26903	Thank you. Legislative committees? The chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26904	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee at the 46th session held on 27 January 2009, discussed the proposal for a Customs Service Act. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law and gives the following comments and suggestions to the text of the proposal itself. In accordance with Article 3 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. It is also not acceptable for point 16 to be in the very text of the law. In addition, Article 40 and other provisions comply with the Personal Identification Number Act. In Article 41(2), legal and non-technically supplement the statement. For the purposes of Article 53, consider the solution referred to in point 6 of paragraph 1, whether the compensation is at all, and in particular whether it is one-off if it is paid for each three months. In Article 56, the decision referred to in paragraph 2 shall be reviewed. It is also necessary to make an express statement legally and nomotechnically on Article 96, as it is not a matter of the time of entry into force of this law, and the termination of the work of the Central Commission for Customs Infractions is not specified and neither is it determined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26905	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26906	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, dear secretary of state, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At the 24th session held on 28 January 2009, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Customs Service Act as a home working body. The committee discussed the issue of temporary transfer of officials to another place of work more than 80 kilometers from its place of residence. The question is also asked whether this distance is in line with the provisions of the Labour Act. The representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia explained to the members of the Committee that the provision of Article 53 is stated. The proposal of the Customs Service Act is more favourable than the provision of the Law on civil servants, which stipulates that a civil servant may be temporarily moved to another place of work up to 100 km away. It was also given an opinion on the need to review the over-authority of the Director of the Customs Administration regulated by this proposal for a law on the withdrawal of the right to carry out the job of an authorised customs officer. In connection with the provisions of Article 40 of the Law, the need to replace the number of citizens in paragraph 2 of point 5 with the words "personal identification number" because personal data on natural persons will be contained in the OIB rather than in the unique number of citizens. After the discussion of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament, he decided to unanimously propose to the Croatian Assembly the conclusion that the proposal for a Customs Service Act was adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26907	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club Mrs. Nadica Jelas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26908	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The application of the Customs Service Act dates back to 2001. However, in recent years, a number of new jobs and tasks have been included in the jurisdiction of the customs administration, which necessarily led to the need to update the Customs Service Act. In this context, this legislative proposal clarifies the tasks carried out by the customs office, more clearly distinguishes transactions between the customs administration's administrative units, hence the central office and customs offices, the powers of customs officers in customs duties and the supervision of special taxes, customs checks and customs procedures, determines the data collected by the customs administration, their registration, processing and protection in the customs office's work, as well as the manner in which customs criminal proceedings are conducted and fines for infringements are prescribed. A significant step through this law, and related to the harmonisation of the Croatian customs system with the European Union customs system, has been made to improve the work of the customs service through clearer determination of the rights, obligations and responsibilities of customs officials as an absolutely important factor in the efficiency of the entire customs system. In fact, customs services within the European Union do not only have a fiscal task, although it is the most important task, so to collect customs revenues and fill the state budget, they also have a very important security task that involves the suppression of all forms of smuggling, organised crime, terrorism, money laundering and the grey economy. Then I intend to protect the integrity of the state border, the protection of human health and safety, the safety of the product, the protection of intellectual property, cultural goods, protected plant and animal species, and control of the transport of dual-use goods. In the end, I will task at speeding up the flow of goods without jeopardising all the safety elements listed above. It was precisely because of the more effective achievement of the tasks listed, that it was necessary to regulate in more detail the special powers of customs officers such as the carrying of arms and the use of means of coercion, and then the procedures of carrying out customs controls such as stopping means of transport in the entire customs territory of the Republic of Croatia, all with the aim of more effective combating customs fraud and smuggling. Also, in order to implement customs procedures more quickly and efficiently, which is precisely in the function of speeding up the flow of goods by this legislative proposal, much wider powers have been given to customs officials with medium-sized expertise. This is clearly one fire measure conditioned by the lack of personnel of more professional training and time will certainly show whether this measure is good. This draft law provides for certain specificities in the first but also obligations and responsibilities of authorised customs officers in relation to other civil servants, particularly related to admission to customs service, second-place transfer, internal control and control, and particularly specific responsibilities for infringements of official duties and conduct of disciplinary proceedings for such infringements. In this respect, the powers of the Director of the Customs Administration have also been significantly extended. Namely, the Director shall be authorised to initiate disciplinary liability proceedings due to an easy and serious violation of the official duty but also to take a decision on a distance from the service in a situation where criminal proceedings or proceedings have been brought against the customs officer in the first instance of the customs administration's disciplinary court for serious infringement of official duty. The Director shall, therefore, decide on the justification for the stay of a servant in the service or his distance from the service in the event that his continuation of the business could harm the interests of the customs service. Such a legal provision, by the way, was sharply reacted by the Independent Customs Union, assessing it as unconstitutional for the reason that in such cases a customs officer who was away from duty could be deployed to a lower-ranked workplace even if he was not proven guilty. On the other hand, due to the nature of the job and the special working conditions, an extended range of benefits for authorised customs officers in relation to other civil servants from benefits related to temporary transfer to another place, a distance from the existing more than 80km through various awards and recognitions, cash aid of course in line with the needs and resources available until recognition of the insurance standings in the increased duration. And at the end of this general review, one remark mentioned by the chairman of the Finance Committee. Therefore, Article 40 of this legislative proposal concerns the chapter on the collection, recording, processing and data protection. It also mentions the home number of citizens and the home number of citizens of responsible persons and the birth number of legal and natural persons of craftsmen. The bill was submitted to the Assembly on December 19th last year, so just at the time of the most intense promotion and the personal identification number campaign. Among other things, of course as important anti-corruption levers and regardless of the fact that the Personal Identification Number Act came into force as of 1 January 2009, all these wrong terms should be corrected in a way that is therefore replaced by the OIB. And now I would return to that most important function of the customs service, that fiscal or fiscal function of collecting revenues from the state budget from customs, from special taxes or excise duties, from VAT and other charges charged in respect of imports, exports and goods exports. As citizens and business people, we individually have positive and negative experiences and impressions of the customs service doing this job of billing revenue for the state register. However, what does the State Audit Office think about this as an independent and independent state body whose legal duty is to judge objectively and impartially about the collection and spending of public money? Now, that's something else. And the fact that the Customs Service has carried out its legal obligation has been giving a conditional opinion on the State's ongoing audit for years. Such a conditional opinion has also been given for 2007. And what reasons led to the State's review of giving a conditional opinion for 2007 as well as for previous years, because the reasons are actually completely identical. For the first reason, I will try to quote it, "Requests for customs and customs duties which, according to the list at the end of 2007, amounted to €2.4 billion and claims for special taxes, which, according to the list at the end of 2007, amounted to €1.3 billion, were not shown in the main book and financial reports of the customs administration or in the main book and financial reports for the state budget.". And another reason: "For special taxes, a united claim report at the level of the customs administration has not been drawn up and a full analysis has not been carried out with proposals to address the problem of the claim which is estimated to be non-refundable.". So, from this we see that at the end of 2007, the customs office requested 3.7 billion kunas of unpaid customs duties and customs duties and did not actually do anything about the charge. When a SDP representative club last week defended its anti-recession programme, you asked colleagues and colleagues to whom to be taken into the state budget to, for example, be paid in full by the lack of HABOR core capital which we proposed among other measures so that our Croatian Development Bank could monitor projects of Croatian entrepreneurs that are under pressure, we can literally say so, on their knees. The outstanding claims of customs duties are clearly higher than the amounts that I should be paying from the state budget for the missing share capital of HABOR. Therefore, it is clear that no one should be taken into account in the budget. In fact, the problems wouldn't either be or they would be much less dramatic, so they would be easier if the state institutions were doing the right job for which they were founded, specifically in this case, if the customs service had to charge what they had to pay under the law and thus increased revenues in the state register. Obviously, then, unpaid customs revenues are a major problem but not only customs services but also states as a whole. It is certain that one objective reason is the enormous amount of unpaid customs duties escalating the indifference of economic operators or their inability to pay for invoices, but it is also certain that there are also many internal reasons and failures which are manifested in a major inequality in the operational conduct of the customs service. The existence of these large differences in treatment from area to area, from customs offices to customs offices very illustrating the concepts of hard and soft borders as something that is quite common in Croatia. In the north we have a hard border and the south it's softer the border. Certainly and certainly not because it's colder in the north and warmer in the south. The fact is that in Croatia there is a very strong perception of the customs service as one of the most important areas of corrupt activity. In recent days, we remember, he reminded us of that again, so, those... channel whistle from the smuggling administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And here, precisely because we want to believe that the adoption of this Customs Service Bill will contribute to the removal of these internal weaknesses and problems of the customs system and the organisational strengthening of the customs service in order to increase its overall efficiency, therefore, not only in terms of the contribution to the SDP State Budget will support this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26909	Thank you. HDZ Club, Mrs. Representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26910	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and fellow MPs. The Customs Service Act adopted in 2001 provides for conditions for consistent application of customs rules and lays down the powers and responsibilities of the customs administrations in accordance with the powers and responsibilities of the customs services of the European Union. The existing law regulates the structure, the part-circuit, the conduct of operations and the operation of customs services, the authorisation of customs officials, the powers and responsibilities of collecting, recording, processing and data protection in relation to customs duties and other matters. In order to further align the Croatian customs system and the position of customs service as a whole with the customs system of the European Union and the position of customs services in the European Union, as well as to the start of negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of the European Union, this proposal for a customs service law is aimed at improving the work of the customs service, clear determination of the rights, obligations and responsibilities of customs officials as well as the way in which the customs service is financed. The proposal for a Customs Service Act proposes the possibility of giving higher powers to customs officials with medium professional training, so that they can carry out some of the tasks that are in the section of officials with higher professional training, all in order to carry out customs procedures more quickly and efficiently. Furthermore, changes have been proposed in the course of customs controls on the entire customs territory of the Republic of Croatia in order to combat customs fraud and smuggling as effective and as effective as possible since the customs administration is carrying out customs controls and customs verification operations with a view to detecting customs and other offences and other criminal offences committed by breach of customs and other regulations whose enforcement is within the jurisdiction of the customs administration. The tasks of customs services within the European Union are not only the collection of income and contribution to the common budget but also the operation of the customs service has an important role in security through the prevention of criminal activities, all forms of smuggling, organised crime, terrorism, money laundering and the grey economy. In addition to that customs service, it plays an important role in the integrity of the state border, human health and safety, in controlling the transport of dual-use goods and others. That is why, and in order for the customs administration of the Republic of Croatia to be more effective and active and to achieve its full role and mission in the complete system of customs control and verification protection, it is necessary to regulate and, in accordance with national regulations, to increase the powers of customs officials. The proposed law clarifies more clearly and more precisely the tasks listed by the customs administration as well as the tasks which are within the jurisdiction of the Central Office of the Customs Administration. It is also trying to address the issue of ensuring better conditions for estimating the work of customs officers. Some of the issues raised by the proposed law should be regulated by the management of the customs administration, its establishment units and their internal bodies and issues related to their headquarters, areas of action and the start of work. The customs authorities of the customs administration assigned to carry out customs controls and supervision of special taxes, customs checks, customs duties or the use of goods, other customs procedures, conduct of the infringement procedure shall then be prescribed. In addition, infringements which are placed in part of the work of the customs administration and the way in which customs infringement proceedings are conducted shall be governed. Criminal provisions are prescribed and fines for violations by violation of the provisions of these laws. Finally, due to all the stated club of the Croatian Democratic Community, it fully supports the proposal for a customs service law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26911	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26912	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. Perhaps a little regret that this Customs Service Bill is not listed as a law that must be in its own nature, by its content, as a first-rate means of combating corruption and organised crime. It is only mentioned on the way along the way, as stated in the action plan to fight corruption. This really law, actually the customs service with the tax administration, must begin to fight corruption and organised and every kind of dangerous crime. Not the Justice Department. But what's going on out there, it's just that people don't sign up like this, after all, and the independent union that Mrs. Nadica Jelash has been saying on behalf of the SDP club and mentioned, is simply hard to believe. The explosion of new employees has just exploded in the customs administration and in certain outposts where people are employed, which don't even exist. Of course they're all political likers. Who can take it more? What economy? What economy can support it more? Absolute politicization of customs. And then the results are what they are. So, I'll speak only on the basis of relevant papers, not my own personal impression or from talking to people who don't always have to tell the truth. Here's what the State's Attorney's Office says. Is it possible, therefore, that the application, criminal charges for the avoidance of customs controls, is almost gone? In 2006, there were 543, last year 439 and 2007 respectively. Applications are filed here and there to find drugs, but for other criminal acts of smuggling, so also cigarettes, other goods most commonly used by the mafia that are the subject of their interest is not at all. And for bizarreness to be even greater among these 439 procedures, there are proceedings against customs officers who have not been knowingly doing their job. Even in the opinion of the superiors, they committed crimes, so amongst such bizarreness, you can find a dangerous customs officer here on one side here in customs and customs controls who sees what he's been doing, in conjunction with one father who has two twins and 10 small tuts, the pyjamas have not been reported. And that's why this man is suspended from work, and that's why criminal proceedings are being conducted. So where do we live? The independent customs union just ignores itself, shuts up. People who say anything are being replaced or deployed to places like this that they don't have to do anything, and as it happens, people who are active are only waiting, so they quit themselves and go somewhere to work. Because it's the worst thing to do again. So just a whole series of such lawlessnesss being done in the Customs Administration itself as the union, the Independent Customs Union states. It lists persons who are even assigned to management posts and there at a facility that does not exist at all. Then you don't even talk about friends and best friends, and you don't even talk about them, the mayors of the municipalities that are employed there doing two jobs, and then friends of people who are in the headship. So when it's all revealed by an independent union, and, of course, by those who resisted such phenomena and phenomena, they're being replaced or they can't dream of making progress. But to that extent, when the public gets excited, then these people, like in the case of a woman, quit themselves because they didn't have the right conditions. Of course, all these jobs are carried out beyond the Customs Union’s opinion especially in these leading posts. That's what the number of these officers is now, these exposures are hard to say now at all. But just at the time of the European Union's approach, when the European Union has already stated that we must reduce that number as one component, and the administrations here you see there and there are new jobs happening. The law is as shy as the law, which will still fight corruption and organised crime. How, then, the situation can happen that the terminal, that is, the warehouses and who will get that space, is given the mercy of the warden or the head of the customs office, and does not go to the public tender. How is that even possible? And then do you have any good intentions, because this isn't some kind of mistake, tipfeller. So, systematically avoid competitions and public procurement wherever possible. So then a different name is given in certain laws so that parliamentary MPs would not think about it or the public would point to such serious shortcomings. So here I think now I don't read all these phenomena and all these individual cases that have happened to certain people who have warned about the smuggling of goods, what has happened to them, how people have been employed and how they have entered the system. I think it's already this one, so this one situation that the union warns about is enough for us to have an existing law, so we haven't been able to apply here, or the government has not been able to apply it. Because in essence, there was such politicisation that it fell into the eyes and the European Union which specifically warned about these problems in the Croatian Customs Administration. So, what will happen to this, the application of this new law if and the existing law in its elementalities, above all, in the fight against corruption, organised crime, smuggling, cross-border crime of every kind is not respected. So if we don't stop this dangerous politicization of the system then we'll have what we have. Mrs. Nadica Jelash also warned about this kind of behavior suffering the state budget. So, with such lawlessness and illegal treatment that is tolerated or simply omitted, the state budget suffers enormous damage. On the other hand, increased control in small craftsmen. So we don't want to deny a few taxes. They're already having two inspections a week. Bizarre works here's a small shop and the owner is punished because 3mm were at the window on the door of a smaller letter than prescribed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26913	Thank you. One correction to an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26914	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, that's where the MP listed a series of incorrect allegations, first of all, that they were only employed on customs political counterparts. I think so, so she normally took over as a spokesman for an independent union. Since I'm one of the founders of the Customs Union, and that union was in my company until I left that association. That union you're a spokeswoman is one small union with a couple, a few maybe dozens of members, and normally there's this mutual problem and tension even among the unions. But it would be a good idea if when you talk about it then you need to inform other unions that are large, which are the largest, most numerous. [[Listen up and you'll hear it's a correction. Don't lift the handle, listen.]] Are these problems that you're talking about or aren't, because this story of yours is not convincing because you're just a spokeswoman for a small, small union?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26915	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26916	Kunst was replicating me, and he was not correcting the incorrect assumption, and he gave his opinion, which is what he finally said, so he violated the Rules of Procedure, the provision of Article 209. But it's just that what he said is that I'm a spokeswoman for small and small unions and small people. That is certainly true, therefore, according to all that ye have not yet put on your paw and boot.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26917	You're wrong, pal. Representative Boris Kunst was correcting your incorrect claim, your claim, let me put that out, if you'll be so good, and you'll let me. Well, you're no good, here you go. You argued that in customs, they were employed on a politically similar basis, and MP Kunst denied it as an incorrect claim and it was a correction of an incorrect assumption. A school example of correcting an incorrect quote by agent Boris Kunst, and a school example of injury to the Rules of Procedure by you. Mr. Representative Ante Kulusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26918	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. A new modern and improved Customs Service Act is needed for several reasons. The duty of the customs office is not only the collection of budgetary revenue. The necessary customs service is active with an ever-increasing role in curbing smuggling, organised crime, terrorism, money laundering and the grey economy. The Customs Service also plays an important role in protecting the integrity of the border, human health and safety, product safety, intellectual property protection. In view of the above, it is important that the new Customs Service Act increase the powers of customs officials in order to be able to implement measures to protect customs territory and customs controls and checks. It is also necessary through the law to ensure mechanisms to promote effective work because the aim, at international level, is to speed up the flow of goods, but not to endanger security. It is these elements that the law successfully edits. The powers of customs officials are increased, they are given greater authority to control all transmission and transport resources in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Special powers of customs officials shall be introduced to strengthen the fight against smuggling and other forms of crime. Customs officers may issue orders, use coercion funds. In addition to increasing the powers of customs officials, the control mechanisms, the quality of their work, the internal control service will exercise supervision of the legality of the work of customs officers in customs proceedings. The law also introduces transfer mechanisms, i.e. second place of work of customs officials, to ensure the objectivity and quality of operations. Of course, in order to improve the quality and efficiency of work, there are important ways of rewarding and motivating employees, which is why the law proposes the adoption of a regulation that would define, among other things, rewarding the above average results in the work. Since the proposed Customs Service Act introduces essential preconditions for improving the work of customs services and preconditions that allow for quality changes from the traditional customs service aimed at collecting revenue into a modern service aimed at curbing different forms of crime and different types of protection of borders and populations, I fully support the bill. However, any law proposed by this Croatian government on the prevention of crime or anything was welcomed on the knife, as it should have been like this or like that. When something isn't brought in, it should be done again. We all know in this country and in this House how and in what way they hired, especially in customs services employees, the directors of individual services from 2000 to 2004, I think that colleague Ingrid knows very well, but apparently every law must be more politicised than discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26919	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26920	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, thank you very much on behalf of the motionor, of course, for the comments and suggestions and for the debate. I think it is very clear that everyone practically supports this bill because we are all aware that it brings certain improvements and improvements to the existing system. But also, let me just finish by looking at a few segments that we heard in the debate. Two specifically related therefore to new employment over the past few years. So, right now, 3200 employees have been employed in the customs administration compared to 2004, when there was about 3100, so you'll all agree that it's very small, or we can say a slight increase, but in any case we should consider that in the period from 2004 to today there was a natural course of action, i.e. out of people, and on the other hand, you know that we have spoken several times and in this assembly, and we all agreed that just before the customs administration there would be a great challenge and responsibility in terms of joining the European Union, so that a good part of that employment is in any case related to the construction of additional administrative capacities and the accession of the European Union. But I repeat once again, though when you compare the total data, you see that there has been no major employment. And the other thing I'd like to say here in the final, so still a few figures that I'd like to share with you here to hear what customs administration is, or what the customs administration is doing, which it did, is here specifically in 2008. The number of infringements committed was 6250, with some of the values determined, we can say in certain customs offices small to one million kuna to a total of 147 million kuna in one customs office. As for surveillance and the type of surveillance control, the total number is 5731, most of which, of course, was over the excise goods. We all know very well that the customs administration is practically responsible for the payment under the current draft budget of 9.5 billion of the specific taxes. When you add to that even customs revenues, somewhere billions and 900, and a good part of the income of value added tax on imports, you see how much their responsibility is, but you actually need to recognize their work, i.e. the work of the customs administration. As for excise goods of these 4836 controls that were carried out in 2008, the majority of them concerned oil derivatives, 3.5 thousand, which should indeed be mentioned that controls were done both on legal persons and on natural persons. That's what we said several times in the context, which is what the esteemed representative said, whether we've promoted this bill enough or not, in terms of fighting corruption. I can take this, of course, as a suggestion in some way and criticism, but I think I also initially said that this law is not in line with the action plan, and it is certainly also intended to continue to fight corruption. With regard to these identified irregularities and to legal and natural persons, the main part concerns irregularities in terms of the use of oil for depositing and euro diesel fuel, colored in blue for purposes not intended. It is also worth mentioning 22 million pieces of different kinds of cigarettes seized during 2008. So, just a few figures that I wanted to document, actually, and show the work of the customs administration, for example. In 2008, I think you'll all agree that in no way is he negligible, but that I think he's also commendable. Anyway, here's another time for my thanks for the debate, and we'll take some comments and suggestions anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26921	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposed Customs Service Act, first reading. I am voting on the following conclusion: “The proposal for a customs service law is being adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." To vote. The result? With 107 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26924	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. You have before you the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on mutual protection and exchange of classified data. Representatives of the two governments signed the contract in Zagreb on 30 September 2008 between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on mutual protection and exchange of classified data. This is one contract that created a legal framework for the regulation of matter, so the protection of classified data. To say classified data, that's the information that's been marked and determined by a certain degree of secrecy. This contract accurately provides for a way of exchanging such data, a way of creating such data that the authorities are authorised to act throughout this process, and therefore this procedure regulates all relevant issues relating to these data. This is a contract that the Republic of Bulgaria has confirmed in its parliament, and contracts are being prepared with other countries in the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26925	Thank you. The committees? The Legislative Committee, chairman of the board, Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26926	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. At the 46th session held on 27 January 2009, the Croatian Parliament Legislatives Committee discussed the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on mutual protection and exchange of classified data with the Final Proposal for the Law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 29 December 2008. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law and does not object to the proposal of the Proposer to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. And thirdly, the text of the final proposal does not have any objections to this, both constitutionally legal or nomotechnical in nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26927	Thank you. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security? The Constitution? I'm opening a debate. The club of HDZ Representatives Mrs. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26928	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on Mutual Protection and Exchange of Classified Data with the Final Proposal of the Law as a logical sequence of the overall arrangement of the information security area. During 2007 and 2008 the Republic of Croatia adopted a series of legal and sub-legislative acts governing the area of information security such as the Data Security Act, the Information Security Act, the Security Checks Act, the Information Security Measures Regulation as well as a series of regulations. The Information Security Act also lays down the measures and standards of information security which provide for the establishment of specific funds for classified data submitted by the Republic of Croatia to another country, i.e. an international organisation or institution with which the Republic of Croatia cooperates. The Republic of Croatia is also a member of a series of conventions and international agreements that regulate state co-operation to exchange data and information mainly in the fight against corruption and organised crime, the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, the processing of war crimes and a series of civil legal relations. It is therefore an imminent need for the State to through bilateral contracts and to negotiate specific relations, rules, standards of mutual protection of classified data created jointly or exchanged between the parties to the contracts. This Treaty lays down identical degrees of secrecy, obligations relating to national measures for the protection of classified data, the competent authorities for the implementation of the contract, the mechanisms for the transfer of classified data as well as the handling of classified data, the procedures for breach of security and the costs of the implementation of the contract shall be laid down. The adoption of this law will provide guidance for future negotiating procedures with other countries, as we will soon have proposals to confirm new international agreements in this area and in order to ensure effective international cooperation in the exchange and protection of data. Croatia has signed contracts with Albania and Macedonia so far, contracts with Estonia are being signed and negotiations are being held with other countries. The Croatian Democratic Community Club therefore supports the adoption of this law in order to make the treaty provisions an integral part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26929	Thank you. Mr. Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26930	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The need to coordinate action to address sovereign and particularly security problems that are often complex and complex cross our national borders and frameworks and require international cooperation or exchange of information and information. Often such material is classified and marked by a certain degree of secrecy and the exchange of such information requires close foreign-political relations and increased co-operation between the two countries. A package of legal provisions governing the information security area was adopted as part of a national plan relating to the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Therefore, we believe that by confirming this Treaty or by adopting this law, we will create a legal framework for establishing rules for mutual protection of classified data with the Republic of Bulgaria and thus make a positive step in the area of security issues. As particularly important reasons why we support the content of the proposed law, we point out that Croatia recognises through foreign and security policy the important role of international security and mutual trust with countries in the region, which are members of the NATO Alliance and the European Union. It is also recognised that the text of the contract in question is written without any intention of imposing interest and will on some of the parties and we consider it a formal legal framework for cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Bulgaria on the basis of which our interests will be developed and coordinated. We hope that this will make it easier for our competent institutions to work with partners from the Republic of Bulgaria in particular on issues related to national measures for the protection of classified data, national measures for the protection of classified data, mechanisms for the transmission of classified data, treatment of classified data, the manner and the achievement of visits and meetings of experts, the handling of security infringements, and a series of other measures that are more detailed in the contract. We believe that there is a great interest in the Republic of Croatia ending its internal legal procedures as soon as possible with the regulations of other countries and thus with the European Union, and therefore the Croatian Peasant Party club gives full support to the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26931	Thank you. An individual debate. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26932	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26933	Thank you. He's giving up the debate. Dear Representative Ivo Grbić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26934	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Based on the National Plan for the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union for 2008 during 2007 and 2008, a number of legal and sub-legislative regulations have been adopted which are governed in a unique and comprehensive manner by an area of information security, thus establishing a basis for establishing professional standards for adequate regulation of the protection of classified data both internally and internationally. This need for an international exchange of information or material classified or marked by national legislation is derived from close foreign-political relations between countries and the increased need for mutual and coordinated action to address all those problems, which often go beyond national frameworks by their complexity and comprehensiveness. A contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on mutual protection and exchange of qualified data signed on 30 September 2008 established a legal basis for ensuring the protection of classified data produced or exchanged between contracted parties whether it is a matter of establishing the same meaning of degrees of secrecy, obligations regarding national measures for the protection of qualified data or the determination of competent authorities for the implementation of contracts, transfer mechanisms and handling of qualified data, arrangements and methods of visits and meetings of experts and handling in the event of breach of security as well as issues of costs incurred in the implementation of contracts. For this reason, I support the adoption of the Law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on mutual protection and exchange of classified data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26935	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on mutual protection and exchange of classified data. I am voting on this final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 11 for 1 abstentions passed this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26938	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The Law on the Areas and Headquarterss of Violent Courts in the Republic of Croatia has now established 114 misdemeanor courts, while 106 are being established and operated. 8 misdemeanor courts, including Bujama, Donji Lapcu, Dvora, Gvozda, Novalja, Topusko, Vojnić and Novi Zagreb, have not begun their work. Such a large number of misdemeanor courts have proved ineffective and overpriced to the state. It was therefore necessary to approach the process of rationalising the network of these courts since implementation of a series of measures of the justice reform strategy also depends on the future network of courts in the Republic of Croatia. The government of the Republic of Croatia concluded at a session held on 9 March 2007 in line with the adopted strategy for judicial reform that the process of rationalising the network of courts in the Republic of Croatia was launched. The rationalisation of courts will be carried out by joining courts of the same kind. With this conclusion, the Government of the Republic of Croatia tasked the Ministry of Justice with supporting judicial system reform in 2003 with the basis of which the number of courts will be reduced and so that individual courts will connect. Thus, the Law on districts and courts has implemented a rationalisation whereby the number of municipal courts of 108 courts was established by the merger of 67 municipal courts, this law also proposes to implement the rationalisation of the network of criminal courts and to establish a total of 59 of 114 infringement courts in the Republic of Croatia. In order to implement the conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the criteria which objectively determine the number of infringements have been taken into account, given the number of cases in a particular criminal court, their annual inflow, the number of judges in a particular court, and that the distance between courts is less than 50 km. Of the currently established 106 misdemeanor courts in 33 criminal courts, only one judge works and in 33 criminal courts, only two judges act. It has also taken into account the criterion that in a criminal court the judicial duties must be exercised by at least three judges, however, this rule has been waived only by infringement courts in the islands where it is detained that the criminal court may have less than three judges and for reasons of distance from the island due to inadequate traffic connection and due to a number of specific violations in the tourist season. And especially with regard to the sailing of domestic and foreign vessels. The proposal for this law made sure that it was in line with the network of municipal courts and municipal state attorneys, although it was not, I must say primarily because it is about the different procedures that are being conducted in the context of municipal courts and also different and different proceedings in the context of infringement courts. The bill also suggests that the Ministry of Justice will provide work space and technically equip the misdemeanor courts in the seats that were created by merger by 2019 at the latest. The Minister of Justice shall, within 60 days of the entry into force of this Act, adopt a regulation laying down the dynamics of the provision of these conditions. The Minister of Justice shall also be empowered to designate, by a special decision, the establishment of permanent services outside the seat of the criminal court until a decision has been taken to ensure the conditions for the court to operate in its seat. Therefore, both this law and the rationalisation and merger of municipal courts and this law will be possible to establish permanent services outside the seat of a particular court and also the judicial days where this needs to be demonstrated. So, I want, like when we brought in a new network of municipal courts over and over again, it's not about abolishing, it's about joining up. It is far more appropriate for us to have courts within which we will have more judges, within which we will have more officers and tenants because they will simply be used better. This way when we have a fragmented network where we have 33 courts with one judge, 33 courts with two judges, a burden of trial and a burden of work simply isn't even distributed. We therefore propose that the Parliament accept this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26939	Thank you. The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. The chairman of the board, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26940	The Honorable Vice-President, State Secretary, the Committee on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government, held on January 21st, discussed the proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Violent Courts with the final draft law delivered by the Government to the President of the Croatian Parliament. Within the meaning of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the Committee considered the act in question as an interested working body. The applicant's representative pointed out that when proposing the merger of certain infringements, account was taken of the criteria which objectively establish the infringement, the number of infringements in relation to the number of cases in a particular criminal court, their annual inflow, the number of judges, and the distance between them is less than 50 km. In the debate, most committees support the adoption of a law implementing the rationalisation of the network of criminal courts. In the opinion of the Committee members, the criteria set out above are not fully respected when proposing the merger of certain infringements. External member of the board, Mr Ivo Gavranić, in accordance with Article 51. The Rules of Procedure asked for his opinion on the proposed merger of the Blato criminal court to be particularly segregated to the criminal court in Korcula. According to Mr Gavranic, the proposed solution in which the blatant court in Blato is joined to a mistrial court in Korcula is not acceptable in accordance with criteria or a declared policy by the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the existing state institutions on the islands will not be abolished in order to stop the depopulation trend. Furthermore, according to Mr Gavranić, for the same reasons, no solution has been accepted by which the Court of Justice of Lastovo is joined in an infringing court in Dubrovnik, where the possible merger of an infringement court in Lastovo, because of the traffic connection in distance, would be more logical to connect it with the criminal court in Korčula. Also, an opinion has been held in the debate to review the proposed solutions whereby the misdemeanor courts in Đurđevec and Križevci are joined by the criminal court in Koprivnica, and the criminal court in Pag, to the criminal court in Novalja. In the sense that those misdemeanor courts retain their status. The applicant's representative informed the committee members that the applicant would carefully consider the comments and proposals made and, in the event of their justification, to arrange the final draft law with its amendments. After the debate, the Committee concluded by majority of votes that the Croatian Assembly was proposed to adopt the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of Violent Courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26941	Thank you. The Justice Committee, chairman of the committee of Ms. Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26942	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and fellow MPs. At the 19th session held on 27 January 2009, the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Proposal for a Law on the Areas and Seats of Violent Courts with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 12 December 2008 with a proposal to pass the law by an urgent procedure. The Committee discussed the draft law in the capacity of the home working body in accordance with the powers set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the opening explanation of the applicant's representative, the proposed law was briefly explained. From the current 114 infringement courts in the Republic of Croatia, the proposal establishes 59 misdemeanor courts in line with the judicial reform strategy and the process of rationalising the network of courts. The criteria for the rationalisation of criminal courts are the number of cases in a particular court, the annual inflow of cases, the number of judges of a particular court, and the distance between courts. In the debate, members of the Committee on the Proposal for a Law on Areas and Headquarterss of Violent Courts presented the following views, proposals and observations with the Final Proposal of the Law. The position of the Committee is that, in order to regulate the area and the seats of the infringement courts in addition to the criteria for the merger of courts, the Ministry of Justice should also respect certain specificities especially when the rationalisation of courts in the islands is carried out, the tradition of the judiciary should be respected, the distance from the seat of the court to which it is attached. It is thought that the final proposal does not contain valid reasons why several misdemeanor courts are established in certain counties and only one in some counties. For example, in the area of Krapina-Zagorje County, Licko-Senj County, three infringements are established until a single court is established in the Zadar County and Koprivnica-Kryzeva County. In view of the tradition of the court and the fact that the Criminal Court in Novalja did not live, it is proposed to the head of the IX in Ličko-Senj County to establish the Criminal Court in Pag for the area of the municipality of Povljan, Kolan and the towns of Novalja and Pag. It is proposed in Chapter XIX of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County in addition to the proposed Criminal Court in Korčula the establishment of the Crime Court in Blat. It is proposed in Chapter VI of the Koprivnica-Krysjeva County near the Criminal Court in Koprivnica to establish the Criminal Court in Križevci for a long distance between these courts. It is proposed in Chapter XX of the Međimurje County in addition to the proposed Criminal Court in Čakovec the establishment of the Criminal Court in Prelog, given the number of residents and the tradition of the judiciary. An individual proposal that the Justice Committee submits an amendment to the establishment of the Criminal Court in Pag has not received the required number of votes. Most of the votes of the board members supported the adoption of the law in question, with the suggestion of the applicant, to consider and to show about the proposals and objections made to the Final Proposal for the Law until the law was passed in order to improve the proposed law. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice decided, with 6 votes in favour and 4 abstentions, to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on the Areas and Headquarterss of Violent Courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26943	Thank you. Legislative Committee, chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26944	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the 46th session held on 27 January 2009, the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee discussed the Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Violent Courts with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 12 December 2008. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law and does not object to the proposal of the Proposer to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. And on the text of the final proposal, the Committee has no objections to the fact that both the nomotechnical and constitutional nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26945	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Ms. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26946	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. For many years, the Croatian judiciary has faced a problem of effective functioning, which was parallel to the problem of insufficient efficiency, independence, impartiality and professionalism, and then this reflects on the overall situation in Croatian society, economic development, dissatisfaction with Croatian citizens, the slowness of obtaining the right and the general picture of insufficient rule of law. Therefore, the problem had to be tackled by a strategic approach already several years ago, and the result of such a strategic approach was the adoption of a Justice Reform Strategy adopted by the Government at the end of 2005, which was confirmed by the Croatian Parliament, i.e. at the beginning of 2006. The main objectives of the reform strategy were strengthening the rule of law, independence and impartiality of the judicial system, strengthening the effectiveness and effectiveness of the judiciary through a reduction of the number of cases left behind, speeding up judicial proceedings and resolving new cases. The strategy for judicial reform is successfully implemented today through a strategic document and action plan with a strategic document adopted in 2005 and through the revised action plan that the Croatian Government adopted in 2008. The revised action plan contains 144 measures for the implementation of the strategy. The strategy for judicial reform through action plans has been successfully implemented so far, with statistics on the reduction of the number of cases left between 2004 and 2007 by 40% of the discharge of courts, etc. Unjudicial cases, a reduction in the number of old cases considered to be cases older than three years, and European progress reports on Croatia are also talking about this. Following an analysis of the cause of ineffectiveness of the Croatian judiciary under the Justice Reform Strategy, it was assessed as necessary to implement structural changes in order to reorganise and rationalise the judicial network and the state-law network in order to reduce the backlogs of pending cases, rational use of the expensive judicial system, discharge of non-judicial cases, development of alternative dispute resolution systems and a number of other measures. In relation to the rationalisation of the network of courts, it has been found that it must be implemented in a way that ensures citizens access to the court, that the proposed rationalisation of the network ensures a faster trial, more efficient and quality trial and that this rationalisation is economically rational. Within the framework of the CARDS 2002/2003 project. an analysis of the existing situation of the courts with data on the number of judges, the number of cases, judicial advisers, trainees, officials and substitutes for each court according to the framework criteria for the work of judges has been carried out. Then, as a result of an international project, a pilot was identified as a project for the merger of municipal and criminal courts in eight cities involving small misdemeanor courts with one judge. After an analysis of the impact of such merger, the pilot project proved unsuccessful and failed to achieve imagined advantages in terms of judge specialisation, settlement of cases, more effective organisation of duty, and rationalisation showed that it was necessary to implement the merger of courts of the same kind. It was then shown that the very purpose of rationalisation was not met by a mere physical merger which achieved savings on buildings, heating, material costs, human savings, although this is very important. But the main purpose is precisely by uniting the so-called. Court cases, i.e. by bringing these judges' cases together in order to more equilibrate the burden of judges and to specialise judges and the possibility of greater flexibility in the work of judges. In line with these recommendations, the Government of the Republic of Croatia concluded in March 2007 that the process of rationalisation of the network of courts, by joining courts with the same type of foundation which, as part of the KARC 2003 project, developed criteria for the merger of municipal and criminal courts. In parallel with this, a proposal to streamline the state-guarantee network was also made. The Law on Areas and Seats of Courts was adopted in July 2008 with the beginning of full implementation on 1 January 2009, the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers was adopted in December 2008 and here, now before us the Law on the Areas and Seats of Violent Courts as the final phase of the rationalisation of first-degree judicial bodies. According to the revised judicial reform action plan under the project Improving work in the High Violent Court and selected misdemeanor courts, it will certainly be the result of a proposal for a rule on the dynamics of physical merger to be adopted by the minister under this law. The rationalisation of misdemeanor courts is mainly followed by the model of rationalisation of municipal courts, i.e. maintains the principles and criteria of this merger, therefore taking into account the number of cases in a particular infringement court in relation to the number of judges, inflows of cases, the distance between courts, while respecting geographical specificities and traffic connections, mainly in relation to the islands and the development of the island. In the system, it retains those misdemeanor courts as a rule which, according to the inflow of the case, have cases for at least 3 judges. For all these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community will support the adoption of this law in order to achieve the goals of rationalising the judicial network, which are precisely an even burden on judges with cases, faster resolution of lagging cases, speeding up court proceedings, the possibility of specialising courts and resolving disputes within a reasonable period of time. We firmly believe that this rationalisation of the network of criminal courts will certainly result in the intended results together with other measures envisaged by the Action Plan, the revised action plan in the judicial reform strategy, and above all I think the results after the start of the application of the new Criminal Code that we adopted in this Chamber last year, and where we have the first statistical indications that the number of inflows of criminal cases has been reduced by 25%, which is numerically 120 thousand cases, of which, of course, now in the first phase, a small part of the High Court because it is not yet in the proceedings, these cases have not been brought there, and this is the result of the imposition of a compulsory infringement order procedure and an increase of a possible limit for a college criminal order. We therefore support the adoption of this law as one of the quality measures with the Justice Reform Strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26947	Thank you. One correction to the incorrect allegations, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26948	Well, I'll just make two allegations right. Mrs Lovrin said that the attempt to merge, i.e. the merger of criminal courts with municipal courts did not yield results. Unfortunately, the results have been counter-constitutional because we warned the ruling that the merger of municipal and criminal courts, and that is, past the law, a violation of the constitution of a couple of exellance and in general the formation of a judicial authority. Still existing our lawsuit in front of the Constitutional Court, but the Constitutional Court is otherwise in the habit of handling our lawsuits... Therefore, only the legislator and often the government first realizes that such laws are anti-constitutional and then withdraws them from the procedure, or ceases to apply. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's one thing. Second, the reduction in the number of misdemeanors is not a reduction in the inflow of the High Criminal Court who simply no longer knows what to do with the suppression, there is no completeness of the remaining judges, so the latest fillings that were made were practically carried out by 2004, and the High Criminal Court is simply the case as soon as they get there condemned to failure, and the state loses enormous funds because in these infringement cases there are penalties, i.e. decisions concerning the state budget above all. There's something you should do, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26949	HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26950	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. In July last year, a similar law was passed here in the Parliament without the votes of the majority of the opposition, but concerning the courts. I remind you, the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts abolishs 40 percent of the courts in Croatia, and in the future we will have 67 instead of 108 municipal courts. HNS reacted strongly to the abolition of courts as the first measure offered by the Government to the Parliament in the context of judicial reform because the abolition of anything, and especially places where justice has been shared for more than a century, should be the result of a careful, detailed, comprehensive analysis of why we are changing something, how much change it costs, which are positive effects of change. Cut, surgery, blood must be the last, not the first healing procedure. Before the cuts, we have to get analysis, recording, diagnosis of the disease, some other medications, and the knife comes at the end. Unfortunately, in the reform of the judiciary, we started with a knife, so things were set up and turned upside down because this was supposed to be the last measure in the area of justice that we should discuss in the House. Before that, we should get the full concept, strategy, objectives, deadlines and enforcement measures in judicial reform, which would make it clear and desirable for some courts to be abolished. The suspension of courts should be a measure that would follow only after years of application and analysis of the changes applied in the judicial system. In December of last year, a bill was passed that abolished 8 municipal state attorneys and will eventually remain a total of 55. Our findings at the time were mild to us if they are beyond all doubt and if there are no other problems and the necessary changes in the functioning of the state's attorney's office in Croatia that should be resolved before removing this surplus. Unfortunately, there are other and procedural and material problems in the functioning of the state's attorney's office. Namely, a red light was lit in the area of state personnel in the State's attorney's office. At the end of 2007, 400 jobs in the state's attorney's office were unfulfilled or 30% of the total staff of a thousand 416. Without filling the places with quality and motivated state attorneys and deputies, the State's Attorney's Office will not be able to carry out tasks that are more complex every day and require more and more special knowledge. And it will be the brakes of judicial reform, the generator of new problems, and not the factor of a faster solution to existing problems. We know why it's like that. Because it's a dissatisfaction with the material position of state attorneys, officials and tenants whose wages are low compared to the responsibility of the work they do. A lot of other problems need to be solved before the attorney's office is abolished. Most of the business premises of the state's attorneys were worn out, investment investments were necessary, office furniture ran out, information equipment obsolete, wear-out or even technically outdated and installations in offices. Unable to obtain the necessary vehicles necessary for the work of state attorneys, there are not even information programmes necessary for the monitoring of cases, but also for the supervision of the work of state attorneys. If it's needed anywhere, it's an education here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26951	My friend, I'm sorry, this may be a little bit of a mix-up. This is the Final Proposal of the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of Violent Courts. You're talking about state's attorneys.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26952	No, no, it's just an introduction to what... /The speaker doesn't understand./...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26953	And that's an introduction. I'm very sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26954	It is a terrible sentence about the report on the state's attorney's office in the Republic of Croatia. Without the basic programmes and their further development, the state's attorney's office as a whole will be in great difficulty, especially with regard to the effective fight against corruption, economic crime, the protection of the property of the Republic of Croatia, and in connection with specific tasks in preventing terrorism. These are huge problems to talk about before we take the scissors into our hands and cut. We are the first to end, instead of repairing, developing and creating. The lawyer's removal promoter said, "We cut where there aren't enough cases, jobs, detained lawyers." But that's why there's a redistribution instrument for the assignment of a job from another state's attorney's office that has a surplus, not the abolition of a legal institution in a city. Why does no one want to say that the problem of judicial institutions is in Zagreb? So we are not going to solve the problem of non-functioning services in Zagreb by abolishing courts in Lika or Zagorje or by abolishing state lawyers in Slavonia or Istria. Or that's what the promoter thinks he sold Europe a good trick, satisfied the shape, filled out the paper so-called. active, efficient, improving measures in this segment of the judiciary. If that's what he thinks, he's wrong, because that's the kind of measure we're dealing with ourselves. It is unfortunately fog, it is an illusion, it is a delusion, but the price paid by citizens of the Republic of Croatia, not by those who suggest it. The Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Attorneys in December last year, and now this Law on the Areas and Headquarterss of Violent Courts, which repeals 47 of the 106 active infringement courts, only follows the one on the May courts. Where we've abolished the court, we don't need a state's attorney's office, we don't need a court of law. Little is interested in whether we get anything from what we are, or just losing, because the judicial staff from the abolished courts and personnel from the abolished state's attorneys and infraction courts will move to another city, to which most of them will, of course, have to travel, sometimes without the possibility of public transportation in which they will need to be built up or built new spaces for them, to get new equipment in which they will for some time have reduced working efficiency due to the need to adapt to a new working environment. They will travel to work in another city, while at the same time state lawyers will go back to their town where they have been abolished for criminal offences, and judges for violations at least in some cases on office days at the places where they used to work, and now their courts will be abolished by this law. They'd call me Zagori. They'd call me Zagori. They'd call me Zagori. And believe me, it's not a Zagorje term for a rational procedure. On the contrary, it's an ugly expression for someone or something that turned out to be stupid unnecessary. And sim, so dark in the functioning of the state apparatus gentlemen cost both time and nerve and money. Namely, it should also be said that no one will lose their job. Not the judges of the abolished municipal or city courts, not the state's attorneys, not the criminal judges. They're said to be too few anyway. So, even after moving, we'll need to pay them, and after moving, they'll have direct costs. All of this has to be added to the cost of their trip to work in a new city and day-to-day reconnaissance visits to the places from which we removed them. No one here is saying what will happen to public records in places where the court or the state's attorney's office or now the criminal court is being abolished. He'll put the key in the lock, of course. You know, now all we have to do is open a dilemma, so if we need the police in those places where there's no more court, no state's attorney, no judge for violations, no public notary. Are we solving these moves by cause or consequence and in what position do we put the citizens in? People want cheap, quick and effective justice, but also available. They do not want us to drive them into a few tens of miles [10 km] further away from places with which they are often not even connected by public transport. And when he gets there, he'll see his judge from his place of residence and where justice was shared perhaps more than a century of sex, who moved to another place in another building, only the court case walked and created a new rage for our citizen because he lost more time, nerves and money. And the job may have been lost by that public notary who worked in a place where the court was abolished, because without a court of law, it is hard for him to survive. Whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia has well pushed away the good and bad sides of the abolition of local courts, the state's attorneys' offices and the now-infringing courts. Fellow MPs, have we seen in the materials on our tables in all three of these laws an analysis of the effects of the abolition of courts. We haven't seen a basic, let alone a serious, memorable, detailed, comprehensive analysis. Why are we changing something, canceling, how much does change cost, what are the positive effects of change? And everything so as not to have the opposite effect of not killing a cow for a kilo of meat. That such an analysis could not have occurred in 2007 if the government submitted a draft law to the Parliament on the abolition of five municipal and five criminal courts and in 2008 the laws on the abolition of 41 municipal or city courts and 47 criminal courts. Watch out, from 5 to 41 and 47, respectively. So what are these visions and what kind of experts? What are these analyses today and nine times different in a year? Could the government argue that the abolition of 40 percent of municipal, urban and criminal courts will result in a less physically and psychological situation and an increased cost of over a million inhabitants of our country result in a faster and more efficient sharing of justice. We think that we do not and repeat that this is a cosmetic measure that should give a vision of action, which will result in a great dissatisfaction of citizens and will not contribute significantly to a faster and more efficient judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26955	Thank you. Club IDS Mr. Representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26956	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, as far as the proposal for a law on areas and seats of criminal courts is concerned, the fact is that from 114 it means a reduction in the number of courts to 59 which is a reduction I would say abolishing independently of what the merger here is said by about 50%. Also, the fact is that the Minister of Justice said that we're going to be doing scalpel cuts, and in this case, it seems to me that we're doing it with a sword, even though there was once a sword to share justice. But certainly here are the criteria that the promoter has been operating. It was managed by the criteria and the number of judges and inflows, i.e. by the number of cases and the distance between individual infringement courts. And it seems to me that even though what's basic we don't have any indication in this material of what the number of cases in a particular criminal court is, what is the annual inflow, what is the number of judges. So all we can believe is that the proponent of this data is to say it in quality and apply it to the process of abolishing the courts. We, as IDS Representatives' Club, cannot agree with this bill. We think that as much as we can support judicial reform in the context of one and the efficiency of both judicial and judicial protection and ensuring judicial protection within a reasonable period, and the confidence of citizens in the rule of law, but certainly this rationalisation of the network of criminal courts is not an contribution and it is not an contribution I would say first of all rationalisation. I'll say for what reason. Here, I will mention the Labin Criminal Court, which, according to this bill, is abolished, which has an average annual inflow of a thousand 800 cases and the fact is that if we ask that the citizens of the city of Labin, it means a thousand 800, if we add to that the offenders and potential witnesses, it means three, four thousand must travel 40 kilometers. I'm asking you a question of rationalization. These citizens will be exposed to additional costs, meaning costs and travel, and on the other hand, we all together as a state of absence from work, and I think it will only collect the process. The principle of economicity of the process is not respected. Furthermore, as regards the Labin Criminal Court, where we have given and the amendment has not implemented the principle that the seat of the criminal courts is in line with the network of municipal courts because the Municipal Court in Labin acts as such. The number of items I already mentioned annually is an average of a thousand 800 items. I must also say that it is the only court on the eastern coast of Istria and on the other side of the tourist area and we know that there is also an increased inflow of objects during the tourist season. It is up to date in its work and on the other hand has its own space or space owned by the Republic of Croatia, so there is no need for any investment unlike the promoter who says that the implementation of this law in the state budget will require an additional 45 million or 45 million and 200 thousand kuna. Here, that's what I'd also like to mention the Court of Justice in Buzet, which is also being abolished by this bill. I don't think it's necessary to say that his authority is in the area of the municipality of Lanisce and the city of Buzet and these are exactly areas of special state concern, i.e. mountain-mounted areas. And we can say what is the border area with the Republic of Slovenia and certainly the need of such a court is also justified. Here, what is basic, we can support this law only in case our amendments are accepted, and I don't think this law is fully in favour of rationalising the network of courts because rationalisation must be seen not only through the abolition of courts but also through the fact that our citizens I would say citizens of the Republic of Croatia and also citizens of other countries who are our guests are exposed to significant additional costs and these are primarily travel costs to other places, far away, so we do not adhere to that fundamental principle, the principles of economicity of the process. Here, I suggest that our amendments be accepted and in that case we will be able to support the proposal of this law and I believe that the amendment will be far more since there are more new illogicalities in other parts of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26957	Thank you. SDP's club, Vice-President Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26958	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. The government's frequent proposals for legislation, from the Ministry of Justice's resolution on the accession and triggering of courts, were declared at the fifth and sixth speeds of judicial reform. So this is a measure to figure out in public, so, as something that will solve all the problems, first of all, that will solve the cases in these courts by genius, if the court is abolished, we've solved all the problems, there's no parties, there's no case. At a time when we still have a huge number of backlogs, generally and generally speaking when there is still a huge inflow of justice, talking about the abolition of certain courts is equal to talking about the epidemic of hence and the abolition of hospitals and health services. The only good thing that can happen from this proposal is that it will certainly happen that this law will neither apply nor apply, or that we will only have a change of record that no one but the few passersby has seen in these already joined courts. In fact, they were abolished, and recently, the Law on the Disposal of Municipal Courts came into force. And to see that on one example how the abolition of municipal courts, also as a measure of a couple of excellency to speed up judicial reform works. Here's an example of the Biograd Municipal Court that joined the municipal court in Zadar. That law came into force, what changed? The board and it is the cost of the reform, where the municipal court in Zadar writes, the place of Biograd at sea, and literally nothing has changed. The same parties, however, are coming new, new procedures. Something that is inadmissible for a serious state has not changed nor has the administration changed, i.e. Statistics. That's unforgivable. And what is this more theater, throwing out fog for the local audience, for the public, it no longer goes public, Europe clearly sees it, it looks better than we do, but our citizens see it too. And I think it's primarily for one responsible authority to stop treating citizens like an ignorant circus audience. They are serious times and require serious and responsible behavior. You see, talking about judicial reform that the court has come together, and nothing has changed, so it's irresponsible. If you hadn't succeeded in the statistics, two bar notebooks were to be separated and say here in Zadar is being held for municipal court in Biograd, i.e. that's the place of Biograd, and neither were you a frame to do so. And the reform goes, the courts have been abolished. Well, come on, these are too serious things to argue with in this way. So, laughter, irritation, and so, they usually happen you know when in a customs offense or some more serious delinquent, so from the customs officers caught laugh or laugh aggressively. So, one particular discomfort must be present. You, Mr. Kunst, be polite, and don't throw and insult here. Here's a tile up, so say what you're thinking, loud and clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26959	Don't pollemize your colleagues with the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26960	And Mr. President, that's my right, when you don't react, I will react. As the citizens will have to react because they do not respond to power. Here's how much seriousness is going, please let me speak, in the assessment of the funds necessary for law enforcement, it is said that these funds are secured for 2009 45 million and 200 thousand kuna. Next, the following sentence: "In the period until 2020 the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia will provide funds for the implementation of this law.". Give more finally when you do something, say what period and how much money you have and how much the citizens will cost. We've never learned that from this government before. How long will her performance take and how much will it cost? Here's an example, here's an example of the case of a mistrial in Pag that this government intended to abolish. Of course, it's taken up the feet of the citizens of Pag and they're wondering under whose influence it's done and why. Namely, the violation court in Pag existed six hundred years ago in the city of Pag were two judges. Let us not forget that legal history is part of our culture, the culture of the Croatian people. And so, and not only do the courts get cut like a few gnawing teeth, but then where is it really... such that this court has no business at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have a provision of the law which has been praised by this authority, which has been prepared long ago, the law has been adopted here unanimously that in the time and crisis of the case, therefore, we have a large number of cases, that less-loaded courts accept these cases of other courts. Then what is the meaning of this provision and that law if less-loaded courts are abolished, but those that are even removed are not less burdened than the only ones that exist. So you have such an absurdity, it simply leads to absurdity that a court in Pag that exists is abolished, and a court is established in Novalja in another county that does not exist. It's just that he's just got to be set up. So where did he say he was doing it? Something that exists, has its administration, has its parties, huge areas, no one's saying that even Novalja doesn't need to be a court and let the court and set up, infringing, I also don't know what costs. But is it normal for Zadar County to have only one infraction court? So where will these be located if this one is spent? So it's only a chance not to go through like this now. Where are you going to put it? You don't, we've barely secured the space, and that's one decent condition for a new court in Zadar for the Trade and Criminal Court. Now what's wrong with that order? Of course, even then, now that the mayor was no longer responding, you were deaf. Well, I think it's a matter of decency and elemental home jurisdiction not to say that the government must communicate primarily with almost everywhere in Europe but a recognised fourth branch of government with local self-government. That no one asks them about anything. He wants to know what will happen and what measures through “Zanzibar, ” and how must they be organized? Well, that's inadmissible. Such a degree of haughtiness was seen only in 1999, but then it also caused a new history of time. Is it possible for the president of the court to find out through the media that his court is being abolished? Is that respect for the power of justice? That's blasphemy. That's what the President of the Criminal Court is talking about, or obviously those presidents are to be deprived of, and then we're going to cancel the court, and then we're going to attach here, so that there's gonna be an ad, a competition for the new president of the courts because there's been such a situation. So, at a time when justice continues to suffer under great burden, first of all and unsolved cases, but also other difficulties, here's the government's intention is to make an act of something happening, and in this way what's best that can happen is that nothing happens. Here are some representatives from the SDP club who have prepared amendments very seriously that justify the remaining of some of the infringement courts, primarily by handling relevant, objective indicators stemming from the administration of these courts, from local self-government. And something else to keep everyone here together, to be beyond doubt. We also believe in the SDP club that a network of courts and all kinds of courts and all levels of courts should be rationalized. That's not even a question I think of individuals here in individual clubs, or our citizens. But then and until the backlogs are resolved, until there is an inflow at one acceptable level for all courts until this measure is taken and when it is designed, it is in any case premature and it is not the priority of judicial reform. The priority of judicial reform is to fight corruption and organised crime, and to allow the judicial authorities to do their job freely, to move their hands off the independence of the judiciary. For the question, therefore, and what was the beginning of some self-restraint and faith in itself will be pummeled. So here we are at the SDP club holding that in the present time, so in this way changing the law where they are ultimately not even the insured means is premature. But in any case, the support or tightening of our vote for this law will also depend on accepting our amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26961	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mrs. Representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26962	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a series of inaccuracies, but I'll only limit myself to one. So it was said that the provisions on the merger of municipal courts did not happen, but only changed panels in courts. It is not true and I am surprised that the esteemed representative Antičević-Marinović does not understand it, and should understand that it has happened very substancefully because the meaning of rationalization as I said was not the merger of buildings, but rather the purpose of unifying court cases and judges in one court is to evenly burden the possibility of education and specialisation of judges in order to speed up the settlement of cases. And about how citizens are protected and constantly thought of the well-being of citizens said the president of this party died to the citizens, so it's a lesson that it's probably good for the citizens, but they don't know how well they feel or feel. And as it was for the citizens, they showed it in the 2003 and 2007 elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26963	Comrade Antičević, just before when you spoke here you asked for protection from me because someone had come to your word, because that MP Kunst had entered your word Insulted, huh? [[Intruder: He wasn't intruding, he was intruding.]] And you think to yourself that you are outside this House, that the rules of one apply to you, and all the other rules apply to other rules. So you think you can throw, and then that's okay. And if someone else throws, then it bothers you, and this doesn't bother you. So let's do it once, let's not have double, triple, 100-folded standards. Here we go again! It's a good slogan and I support it. State Secretary Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26964	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, rationalization is one painful procedure, and it's something that we all agreed when we went into rationalization of the network of municipal courts that we had to do. I'll just say one thing. France, which has 65 million people, has 180 of these first-degree municipal courts. Now they have a rationalization agenda, where from 180 they're trying to get to 160. We who have four and a half million people had yesterday, so up to 1.1. 108 or 109 municipal courts. Indeed, there is a great disproportionate proportion of the number of people, the number of courts, and what we have spoken to municipal courts, in the context of such small courts, nor are our judges, nor are our officers properly and well used. And that's why we need to create a little larger units, a little larger courts in which this burden of trial and the burden of all the other administrative affairs that have been carried out in one court will be much better deployed. This bill of law, I'm not saying that we may have guessed everything because whatever kind of network of criminal courts we've made, there will always be arguments that we should have connected something one way or another. So here's a colleague of Anticevic's said, the amendments are submitted, we will very carefully study all the amendments and see what is acceptable, possibly accepted. But what we have to get into. So we have 33 courts that have one judge for violations. The next 33 have two judges for violations. In the framework of the judicial reform, we have passed a new law on violations. The effects of this law are clearly seen, the number of cases in our courts is dropping. Why are we falling? Because the cases don't come to a mistrial, they're being solved at that instance by a misdemeanor order. We've got 25% less than we had a year ago. Obsolete, we've extended the limitation period. So, in the future, what we expect is a significant drop in the case of these misdemeanor courts, and so we think that we need to make a very different, important different network of these courts where we're going to have, means at least 3 or 4 judges that we're going to be able to, so we need to send them to trial and these services outside the court, and even where we're going to determine the judicial days, and it's not going to be what we're going to say that we citizens here want them to go not to know how many tens of miles away, but actually we want these people to make better use of the decision-making process. I can't agree with this. Look at the point where with 1.1, we got a new network of municipal courts where absolutely nothing has changed. That's incorrect. First of all, I'm not sure it's right after a month and a half to even assess the functioning of that network of courts. You know, a month and a half is a short period of time for us to now analyze whether it's good or not. But what I can assure you, we've had enough of these courts that have been visited and more or less of the officers of the presidents of these courts are very welcome to this new organization, and already with these staffs, they're having a way of bringing them here, filling them with gaps, and they're doing so much better with the judges and officials who were in our system yesterday, but yesterday where the fragmentation of the system was simply untapped and what we wanted with the municipal courts is very much yielding results. All these connected courts where you said there's no statistics, it certainly does. We have e-records in all these courts and what counterpart Anticevic was talking about in Biograd-Zadar. In Biograd and that president of the court until yesterday, and these judges, they are part of the system and are part of the Zadar Municipal Court. And they have a unique register, and if there were no judges and officials in Biograd, believe me, the official of office or the new President of the Municipal Court in Zadar is going to send people there who will work on these cases and vice versa, if they were not used here in Biograd, and they are missing them in Zadar, and they will certainly come from Biograd and work in Zadar. And that's the point of rationalization. If nothing has been done and we're running a fog, it's not just rationalization and a new network of courts, it's not the only measure that will lead to a better and better trial tomorrow and today. We have passed a whole series of laws that must be revived and whose implementation is under way. I'm going to say the amendments to the Law on Prosecution, we've passed a new Law on Criminal Procedure, just to make it easier for citizens to access the court we passed a law on free legal aid which, at 1.2 this year, begins to live. So we took a whole series of measures to get exactly what our citizens want. They believe me, I don't think they care what plate is on some building, whether it's the court of that place or whether it's a court of some other court, I think they're interested in them coming and that as far as possible before protecting their right and protecting their interest and that's what we're trying to do. And you know, as far as the density and the network is concerned, what my colleague Anticevic said that we now want to lift the courts, so we're going to cancel the cases, it just doesn't stand. The items remain in operation, however in one different way, we hope for a much better and much more efficient system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26965	Thank you. House of Representatives Club of HSS, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26966	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. The process of rationalising the network of courts or, as the government concludes, the process of joining courts of the same kind has been completed. We begin the merger of infringement courts in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. their establishment. What we are most discussing today and what we are mostly calling for, these are criteria taken into account when establishing a new number of infringement courts in the Republic of Croatia, and we mainly state the number of cases, the annual inflow of cases, the number of judges and the distance of courts that should be less than 50 km away. But we forget some of the historical facts, and some of us can say the sympathies in the practice of judging in some of our cities, and I especially point out the town of Križovci and the city of Chazum. In addition to the tradition of the existence of the court in Križevci and the court in the town of Čazmi, which is far longer than the surrounding courts, which, according to this proposal, would remain in effect, should also be taken into account the fact that the Criminal Court in Križevci near the town of Križevci covers the area of surrounding municipalities and that of Sveti Ivan Žabno, Sveti Petar Orehovec, Gornja Rijeka and Kalnik, which is the whole area that has about 38 thousand inhabitants, as well as the court in the town of Chazmi, which covers the municipalities of Štefanje and the municipalities of Izvanska. In addition, the accession of the Criminal Court to the Križevci, the Court of Justice of Koprivnica, could not take into account the criteria under which the proposed law sets out the number of infringements such as the number of cases in certain criminal courts, their annual inflow, the number of judges performing judicial duties in a particular court, as well as the distance between courts of less than 50 km. We also point out that the court in Koprivnica would be 60 kilometers away for residents of the county’s border municipalities and the municipality of Gornja Rijeka and Kalnik, which are also or by some statistical standards the poorest municipalities in the county, and their residents would be safe travel to Koprivnica would be a major problem. As for the number of cases in court, i.e. their annual inflow, and on this basis the number of judges required, the Criminal Court in the Križevci agrees by both criteria to be incorporated into the new law. In 2006, the Crime Court received 5 thousand and 60 cases, in 2007, received 4 thousand 930 cases, and in 2008 received 3 thousand 732 cases. On the basis of the number of inflows of cases, the number of judges in court is determined, and for this number of cases according to the criteria of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia in the Križevci, 3 or 3.25 judges in particular. So far, with this number of judges, the Criminal Court in Križevci has dealt with all cases very quickly, so the number of cases solved was at the very top in the Republic of Croatia. But when the laws apply here's how we hear various rationalizations today, and so here, rationalising the network of criminal courts, we need to look at these rationalisations and from the point of view of the costs of our citizens, or we need to ask ourselves whether we are rationalizing their costs, or whether we are costing our citizens. I would like to point out here if the basis of the new law in the Križevci was to establish the Criminal Court in the town of Križevci. The town of Križevci is also ready to provide work space for the criminal court. So here we are in view of these proposals, we suggest that in the proposal of the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of Violent Courts, the Criminal Court of the Crosses, or the Criminal Court in the city of Chazmi, be included. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26967	Thank you. HDSSB club Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26968	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So, I agree that it is necessary to rationalise not only the courts, not just the lawyers, I will not miss the topic and the misdemeanor courts as well, of course when we talk about rationalisation, but also 550 and I don't know how many units of local and regional self-government in the Republic of Croatia. It should have been adopted in my opinion long ago and a strategy for the regional development of the Republic of Croatia, to define regions in the Republic of Croatia. So it seems to me that this kind of rationalisation may be more of a priority when we talk about regionalisation of Croatia than the courts. However, this material, with a concrete proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Violent Courts with the Final Proposal for Law, would not make it very clear why it hastily adopted in the first and second readings. So it's an emergency procedure. First of all. But the fact is that in the Republic of Croatia 47 violations of courts are lifted. I think the key is to either cut us down here, the secretary of state corrects me, to connect. So, the secretary of state says, we don't end the offenders, we merge the misdemeanor courts. Maybe we should define what that actually means. Do we cancel or connect? So, is the Secretary of State right when he uses this name we combine or are the right representatives of course who are critical about this and say the misdemeanor courts are abolished? In my opinion, this material and the way and purpose of rationalization to abolish the misdemeanor courts where they have no reason to exist. Where the case number is small, where there's no work for a court of law. So, the intensity is likely to be lifted by a misdemeanor court in those places where its existence is not justified. If everything stays as old as it says, and as I'm experiencing a merger, then the merger will be named as the courts' seats. The seats that were these 47. I'd rather have these 47 misdemeanor courts, because I can't tell these 47 courts that are missing from the list are joining up. Okay. We can say they connect but with other courts that are based elsewhere. Perfectly whatever. But let me express my opinion. So, with this material on several pages, it's a matter of abolishing misdemeanor courts. So, I find it very unserious of the legislator of this law that on page 11, the 11th page of the Croatian Parliament suggested that 47 misdemeanors be abolished. And in a way that offends the common sense of a representative. So what are we going to discuss on the basis of this material? Come on, please tell me, here's Mr. Vice President I apologize, but let's say it is abolished or as the Secretary of State says it is, but I say it's abolishing, the Criminal Court of Nasice. Here's Mr. Ronchevic, do you know why this proposal? Why is this Violation Court in Nasice abolished? Are there not enough cases there, aren't there enough judges? I mean, what are those reasons? Not one single indicator, not for a single court. You'll have to cancel the Violent Court and the Lower Miholjc, and then you'll be in Ilock. Ilock-Vukovar doesn't have 50 kilometers, it's less than 50 kilometers. But if you were in Ilock or traveling between Vukovar and Ilock then you know very well what the problem is because because of the simple traffic connection, you're waiting a few hours when the road is closed. So, by proposing you cancel the Ilock court. I don't know how Minister Cobankovic will react to that. I would very much like to hear his statement on this proposal by Mr. Cobankovic, who is well aware of the issue in Ilock and, among other things, the criminal court, whether he agrees with this proposal, for example, to abolish the Criminal Court in Ilock. Or, they are abolished by this proposal by the laws of criminal courts in Orahovica, Slatini, Pitomachi, so in Virovitica-Podrava County. The proposer of this bill abolishes three mistrials. Here I call on the representatives of Virovitica-Podravska County especially those who are in the party on the occasion of proposing, so to the party who exercises the authority of this law to explain because in this material there is no, which is why they have proposed or why such a bill is to abolish courts in Pitomaca, Slatina and Orahovica. The same applies to other areas in the Republic of Croatia. So the fundamental objection of this material is that this material does not produce any single indicator, no single number, which is why the proposer suggests that 47 infringements be abolished in this way. And I agree with the intention to assume that the current network of misdemeanor courts is quite certain that it needs to be reduced, that it needs to be rationalised, and in this direction the HDSSB also represents that position. But to raise the hand for the abolition of 47 infringement courts with 11 pages of material that absolutely no single criminal court is proposed to abolish or as you say the merger shows by figures, statistics and the fact that it is indeed necessary or rational to abolish that infringement court such material, and we disagree with that approach. Our proposal, however, is that this goes to first reading with such material but here is this material and that the proposaler for a second reading also proposes here at the Croatian Assembly material that will, numerically, statistically and truly, show arguments and facts for all those misdemeanor courts for which the proposer proposes to abolish, which is why these infringement courts are being abolished. We can't accept a bill like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26969	Thank you. At 13 o'clock and 1 minute, the time for the ten-minute hearing was up. State Secretary Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26970	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Let me say it one more time. Basic motives for a different network of misdemeanor courts in the Republic of Croatia. 33 mistrials mean where we have one judge. The next 33 we have where we have two judges. The tendency is to drop the case because two years ago we passed a new law of law that solves things at a lower level that doesn't even come to a mistrial. So we don't have a whole series of courts right now either those basic conditions to be separate courts. Is that a suspension or a merger? More specifically, a new organization. What you think we're ending is that there won't be anything there anymore is going to be in those 47 courts. It will be meant to be an institute and permanent service outside the seat of the court, there will be an institute and judicial days so that these people in relation to whom the infringement proceedings are being conducted for a particular area will not be sent from Orahovica to Virovitica but will be established either a permanent service outside the court or we will determine the judicial days. Anyway, the goal is what I said and in my performance before. Our goal is much better to deploy that burden of trial than the resources we have. That's the only goal. No goal is to end anything anywhere. Because if we were to put an end to it, it means that we would have to separate both officers and judges from the system, and we would actually have to move the entire area out. No, it's just a different organization.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26971	An individual debate. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26972	Thank you very much. Vice President, Secretary of State. I'd like to ask one question first. At this point, the Zagreb Stock Exchange fell 4%. I am interested in who will be responsible for spreading disturbing news about the abolition of the second pension pillar, which is obviously a direct consequence of the drastic fall of the index on the Zagreb Stock Exchange. So it's a very serious question that's far more important than whether or not to join the criminal courts. But when we talk about misdemeanor courts, then we should first and foremost resolve the dilemma, in the Justice Reform Strategy at one point, we said that there was an idea that misdemeanor courts should first and foremost be given a decoded answer that and definitely gave up on that idea forever, or this is one of the steps in that process, so the merger of infringement courts with and municipal courts. Now, as the merger of municipal courts or the people's removal of municipal courts did not fully comply with the criteria, so in my county, the Municipal Court in Djurdjevac was abolished even though it met all the criteria. But I know everyone had to give something, so here's HDZ and HSS in my county gave up the District Court in Djurdjevac to contribute to judicial reform. If that strategy were followed, or those criteria, then surely it wouldn't be as law as we have today that suggests that in my county, then Koprivnica-križevci-Kristevci mistrials will be abolished both in Križevci and in Djurđevec. If the logic follows that where we have a municipal court remains a misdemeanor court then the situation should be minimally left behind or the structure for the Criminal Court to remain in the Cross. If the thought of rationalization was followed, then it was to go after the Criminal Court to remain in Djurdjevac. For what? Because today we have three misdemeanor courts in Koprivnica, Križevci and Djurđevec, of which only the Criminal Court in Djurđevec works in state rooms. Infringement court in Koprivnica works in the area of the town of Koprivnica. For three years now, the President of the Infringement Court has been trying to close a lease agreement in the first place. The only thing he's got money for his phone is no money for electricity, water and gas in those areas. Now, in those unconditional areas in Koprivnica, we'll put together two more courts and that court of the Cross and the court of the Djurjevac. On the other hand, we have already abolished the court, a municipal court in Djurđevec, which has its own space, which was built in 1952, which was renovated 3 or 4 years ago and where, therefore, we have almost ideal conditions for the work of both the municipal and the criminal court. That's why I'm proposing an amendment, I wrote an amendment, so to give up this kind of solution precisely because of the criteria that the ministry points out at this point, because the criteria are either cumulative or individual. If they're cumulative then I'd imagine a lot, then let's say that a misdemeanor court in Koprivnica should be abolished because the misdemeanor court in Koprivnica doesn't have its own space. If they are individual, then the most rational thing would be if the Giurđevec criminal court remained precisely because it had its own premises there, precisely because it was the abolishing of the Đurđevec municipal court, and now, however, to leave something of the judiciary in Đurđevec, to remain the criminal court in Đurđevec and to leave the possibility that judges might also come to the premises of the former municipal court in Đurđevec to judge in some other cases. Now, as far as the Krysevci criminal court is concerned, his annual inflow was 5060 cases in 2006, 2007. 4930, 2008. 3732, indicative criteria for determining the number of judges in infringement courts of 1. 12. 95th average inflow of cases in the last three years 3.25 per judge. The distance of the crossing area from Koprivnica, taking into account the entire territory, extends to more than 60 kilometers, therefore, is not satisfied with this criterion so that there is no distance of the infringement court more than 50 km, as some citizens from the crossroads area will need more than 60. And the violation court in the Križevci covers the territory of more than 38 thousand inhabitants because it is responsible for the town of Križevci and four surrounding municipalities. Unfortunately, he has two judges and one counselor today, but that's not the reason, it's not because they didn't want to, but because they didn't get the approval to hire judges. So they are now sinful because the ministry has not granted them approval on their justified demands to hire judges. It is the same in the Đurđevec criminal court, it is the same in the criminal court currently in Koprivnica where two judges are missing and one contest has been called but has been annulled, so it can be completed. It was the same at the Đurđevec municipal court where they had five judges, although there was a need for 6.5 judges, so 6 certainly. The situation with Đurđevec is the same, Đurđevac himself is about 30 km away, but the Đurdjevac municipality is over 50 km away. So, I urge that my amendment be adopted and that the criminal court in the Chrysovci remains because there are several reasons for that. So in the Križevci, we have a municipal court, so where we have a municipal decision to stay and violate, it meets all the conditions regarding the number of cases and inflows per judge, it pleases today because it has 2+1, but it should therefore ensure that at least one more criminal judge is allowed. As far as Gjurjevac is concerned, he's served a full course and number of judges, but he's got space. So it would be a shame if we moved, dislocated people from one city to another town where there's no room without leaving space empty in Djurdjevac. And unfortunately, one city that has another tradition and a very important role in Croatia's history because it was one of the points that the Turks have never adopted, today in independent Croatia remains without justice as a whole, so it loses one of the characteristics of the city. We should still say that the city would have to have something of a judiciary if you wanted to be called a city at all. He had since the beginning, since 1852 there has been a municipal court in Djurđevec. We're here in this century while we're doing justice in the city of Djurdjevac. I would therefore ask that these arguments, which I have spoken of by the Proposer, to consider and to respect my amendment, because I think there are quite enough arguments that exist here. Also when I spoke on behalf of the board, I also said about an initiative from the island of Korčula where a misdemeanor court in Blato is abolished and is joined with a misdemeanor court in the town of Korčula, demands therefore that the infringement court remain there for a number of reasons, and one of these is therefore to increase the number of inhabitants in the last period and because of all those measures that both the city and the county and the state make it to promote population policy primarily on the islands. You also have a situation illogical on the island of Pag, therefore, where a misdemeanor court is suspended on Pag, and a court is established in Novalja which does not exist at this time, although there is a court in Pag. Therefore, all criteria should indeed be uniformised and seen as rationalising the judicial system. But not in a way that on the one hand, therefore, does it administratively and mechanically. And on the other hand, to cause it to generate new costs. Here again I ask, therefore, that my amendment be adopted that the Križevci and Djurdjevac remain as such, I do not think it is good for everyone to move to Koprivnica because it will result in the eviction of residents from these cities to the administrative center of the county.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26973	Thank you. One correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26974	Mr. Vice President and Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. counterpart Mršić incorrectly stated that HDZ and HSS agreed to abolish the municipal court in Djurdjevac. The Đurđevec municipal court, in line with the network and the rationalisation of courts and according to that spatial criterion, therefore, the distance, of course and the inflow of cases and the need to specialise the court, came into the network of rationalisation. And the second moment of space, it's absolutely standing, and that's what Mr. Secretary of State knows about the court space in our county, and we're working intensively on it, and we believe that the Ministry of Justice, of course with us from HDZ and HSS, will do so. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26975	By not repeating the bloody Assembly in the Cross. A few replicas. First, Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26976	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You said in fact that this proposal was followed by the thought of rationalization. However, I would like to point out that this is not a rationalisation that the citizens of Lastova who are being abolished by the criminal court and are being joined by an infringing court in Dubrovnik. Why? Well precisely because the distance between Lastov and Dubrovnik is 20 nautical miles, 2 ferrys plus 190 km, 2 buses. As far as time is concerned, it is spent 2 to 3 days of people who are due to arrive at the Dubrovnik Criminal Court from Lastovo, depending on the session, and as far as the cost of the citizens of Lastova is concerned, that is 300 kn plus 2 nights plus food. So, I wonder what thought of rationalization is a leading colleague, Mrs. Gristle? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26977	Second replica, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26978	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Mršić, you mentioned the network of courts among other things and on the islands. In two counties, according to this proposal of the law, it is well settled in Split-Dalmatia and Primorje-Gorski, because all the courts that have been so far remain de facto, and it is good that the ministry takes care of it. However, on the other hand, mistakes have been made in Dubrovnik-Neretvanska and Zadar County, because I believe that because of the reason you stated you do not need to abolish the Blato Violation Court. I also believe that the Pag Criminal Court should also not be associated with Novalja, the more historical reasons why the island is actually divided between the two counties. And as for the island of Lastov, I don't think any solution is right if the citizens of Lastov here can't achieve the right on the island itself. Because if you go for two days, three days or five days, it doesn't matter. Therefore, Mr. Secretary of State, no matter where the Lastovo will be in which court, it is important that that one day a week the judge comes to Lastovo and that the citizens there can do their job. If there is no Blata, then I think the most rational solution is to actually be tried in Split, because it is the simplest thing to come from Lastovo to Split. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26979	Just so it's not on Palagrega. And Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica. [[Intruder: It is the town of Komiza otherwise.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26980	My colleague, you have well noted what is the role and also mentioned the security of space by the units of local self-government for the needs of the courts that have been long ago, it seems to me two thousand years ago and some are headed to see what problems the Ministry of Justice has always been with regard to financial resources, so it has led to the provision that local self-government units are obliged to provide space for the needs of the judiciary. And now I am still in this context that you were talking about, but also what I was talking about and what I was saying about the elemental decency then requires that the mayor or the head of that unit of local self-government be called, so that it is informed of what the state is planning with such an important and important institution in that area, and by the way, be told about which the funds were provided and for which the citizens, so also from that area, have given up space for the needs of the judiciary, i.e. Fatal bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26981	Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk, come in. He's gone. He's losing his word. Ms. Representative Nada Cavlović Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26982	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. The proposal for a law on areas and places of criminal courts with the Final Proposal for the Law is foreseen, as we have already heard the rationalisation of the network of criminal courts in the Republic of Croatia, and it is proposed to establish 59 first-degree infringement courts instead of the previous 114. As criteria, the new network of courts has been instructed by the Government not to list what has already been said in previous discussions, and among other things as a criterion, it is stated that the network of criminal courts is in line with the network of municipal courts. I want to say something about the rationalization of the network of courts that was conducted in Virovitica-Podravska County. This law proposes that only the Virovitics-Podravna County be left with the Virovitica Criminal Court, which means the abolition of the Pitomaca Criminal Court, Slatini and Orahovica, and their accession to the Virovitica Criminal Court. I must say that as far as my county is concerned, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has deviated from some of the criteria that it stated were taken into account in the adoption of this bill, i.e. when establishing a new network of infringement courts. Inconsistency is primarily evident in the absence of respect for the criteria for the distance between courts, since the distance of a significant number of settlements in Virovitica-Podravska County compared to the town of Virovitica is now more than 50 km and 60 km respectively. Here are the town of Orahovica, the municipalities of Mikleus, Zdenci, Čacinci, Crnac and parts of the municipalities of Vocin, Sofia and Cajavica. It is precisely this distance between cities and municipalities as well as the settlements that I have listed that will make it very difficult for citizens to be available to the court, and in most cases it would be almost impossible. Furthermore, the proposal states that this law is in line with a network of municipal courts, which is also not true, as far as Virovitica-Podravska County is concerned. It is known that there is a municipal court in the town of Slatini, and we see that it is proposed that the misdemeanor court be abolished, i.e. its merger at the Virovitica Criminal Court, while the same bill suggests that, for example, infringement courts remain in Solin and Senj, although there are no municipal courts there. For this very reason I have stated that in the Virovitica-Podravska County other than the Virovitica Criminal Court should certainly remain the Criminal Court in Slatina, and that the Criminal Court in Slatina is then attached to the Criminal Court of Orahovica. The establishment of the Criminal Court in Slatina, and the accession of the Orahovic Criminal Court, the annual inflow of the case would be about 3600, and about 1500 items which should certainly be included in the criterion of the annual inflow of the case. However, I must point out that the criteria and the number of cases in the criminal court and the inflow of cases are completely unusable as criteria, because there is no rules of procedure known to establish in an unambiguous way a single way of recording the file during one year, and so is the inflow of the case. In fact, infringements are extremely heterogeneous. First-degree cases in connection with the indictment, for example cases under appeal to other administrative bodies' infringements, proceedings of execution of their own judgments and judgments of other bodies, applications for legal aid and second and secondly after a number of years, have been found that each court has had its own way of recording the file and inflow of the case and in a completely different manner showing it in the annual reports, and thus produced, for the result, an extremely inadequate and unfair systematisation of the number of judges by individual courts, which calls into question the proposed criterion of 3 judges as one of the criteria for the detention of those courts. In addition, the proposed network of infringement courts is uneven with regard to the only possible objective criteria for the establishment of a court in a given area, which is the criterion of the number of inhabitants in the area of jurisdiction of a court. Looking from the point of view of Virovitica-Podravska County where it is proposed to leave out of 4 only 1 court with 93 500 inhabitants, and for just a few numbers larger Krapina-Zagorje County but in a more geographically compact area with significantly smaller distances and a better connection, there are as many as 3 courts and that is the Criminal Court in Krapina, Zlatar and Zabok. It is also left, for example, to the Senj Criminal Court for the area of jurisdiction of only one town of Senj with a total of 8 thousand inhabitants. Besides these, there's a whole series of examples like this. Therefore, what is taken as an important reason for a court to continue to exist in a particular environment does not apply to the territory of the Republic of Croatia in all areas equally and it is obvious that this inequality is precisely in the area of Slavonia where, for the abolition of 4 criminal courts, it is Donji Miholjac, Nasice, Orahovica and Slatina there are no reasonable reasons other than the mere reduction of the total number of courts in the expense of certain other areas, i.e. at the expense of citizens living in that area. The reduction in the number of courts only because of the reduction in the way that it would meet certain requirements that are not at all related to the effectiveness of the judicial authority is not at present in line with the general trends in the development of the criminal law which is going towards the fact that the infringement procedure as part of a criminal procedure in a broader sense is increasingly taking place in a way that is now almost identical to the criminal procedure in a narrow sense, but with a tenfold higher number of cases. Therefore, under the present state of law, it is illusory to expect that by drastically reducing the number of criminal courts, a situation which is certainly not well now, the draft law on areas and courts' seats is not justified by any real reasons that provide a basis for optimism in the perspective that the judicial reform strategy will bring improvement in the area of criminal law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26983	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Mario Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26984	My colleague Smiljanec, well, on the trail of what you said about some counties where there are several, remains several courts, I would refer to the Varazdin County that has over 180 thousand inhabitants and there is one court, unlike some neighbouring counties, you listed the Krapina-Zagorje County which has a third of the population less and there are 3 courts left. For example, in Varazdin County, some people living on the border with Slovenia will now be connected by the Krapina-Zagorje County, from Slovenia down to Međimurje. People will have to travel over 70 kilometers to come to court. Therefore, I believe that the proposer should have this in mind and I would like to hear the reasons of the promoter, which is why in one county which has a third of the population there are less than 3 courts left, and in the county that has a third of the population there is only 1 court.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26985	Thank you. I'm interrupting the session. Continuation is at 3:00. It's Mr. Representative Drago Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26986	We're moving on with the session. An individual debate. Dear Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26987	Thank you. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Allow me to say in my debate on this subject the following comments and are primarily related to the amendment that my colleague Borzan and I have given to a mistrial in Nasice, which should be abolished or linked to the court in Djakova. Otherwise, infringement courts in the Republic of Croatia are specialised courts established for the area of one or more municipalities, one or more cities or parts of the city area. So, these misdemeanor courts are in the first row about violations, which means I believe that in a number of residents where there are even more participants in the offence there is a greater need to form a misdemeanor court. This is one logical sequence, and I think that this criterion as one of the important proposings did not take too much care of it, although the Secretary of State mentioned in the morning session that, for example, the number of residents in France was 65 million. And that's why he said how many courts there are. However, I think that the criterion for the number of residents in one criminal court should be more significant. For the area of Osijek-Baranja County, instead of 6 so far, it has been proposed to establish 4 infringement courts. It's certainly a discussion for me, primarily, of the merger of our infringement court with the student court. Why? Well, exactly because the figures next speak for those two courts. Five municipalities and the town of Nasice are now gravitating in the Nasica Criminal Court. In total, this is gravitated by 47 thousand 374 inhabitants, or if they were to distribute there are municipalities of Donja Motičina with a thousand 800, Đurđudjevac 7 and 900, Fericians 2 and 400, Koška 4 and 400, Podgorica 3 and 300 and Našice 17 thousand 300. Thus, a total of 47,000 374 inhabitants and the Djakovci Violation Court are gravitating eight municipalities and the city of Djakovo. In total, it is 50 thousand 428 inhabitants. The merger of the two misdemeanor courts would result in the Đakov Criminal Court gravitating 97,000 802 inhabitants and enforcing that one infringement court. As far as the situation in Osijek-Baranja County is concerned, the Donji Miholjac Criminal Court has had four municipalities and one city with 19 thousand inhabitants and the Valpovo Violation Court two municipalities and two cities with 32 thousand 160 inhabitants. The new court proposed in Valkova would have about 51,000 230 inhabitants to gravity according to the court. In addition, there are eight municipalities and one city, 42 thousand 633 inhabitants, and the Osijek Criminal Court with 7 municipalities and the city of Osijek has 147 thousand 109 inhabitants gravitating the infringement court. All this data suggests that the equilibration of courts according to the number of inhabitants as an imperative also sets up the stay of the Nasice Criminal Court because the number of inhabitants would then be allocated to the violation courts in Osijek-Baranja County. In addition to this claim, however, the number of cases of the Najsic Criminal Court which has between 3 and 3.5 thousand regular, 3 thousand 600 to 5 thousand 400 cases of enforcement, 750 to 950 cases of legal aid. And by this criterion, it was the second court in the County of Osijek-Baranja. The criterion discussed in this material is that the number of judges per case is greater than three so far by systematization. So there are two judges and one counsellor. Also, the distance of some municipalities from a potentially new headquarters is over 50 kilometers, such as the municipality of Donja Motičina. And what would ultimately, that the seat of the municipal court is also in Nasice and in line with these criteria and accommodations of the Criminal Court should remain in Nasice. A space that is problematic in Nasice in a quality way should be resolved with the normal and question of the ministry and the city and should be resolved so that the work of the court can be maintained primarily because of the 50,000 citizens who are gravitating in this court because surely we will get more if we ensure quality space and sufficientness and the possibility of using that court as much as we continue to drive, we create a situation where citizens from this area should go further, or if we look from an economic point of view there is a normal loss of working time, there is a loss of opportunity to finish the job in a more high-quality and faster manner, which is related to the resolution of certain offences. Here, precisely for these reasons that I have said, we have also submitted an amendment to Article 2 where, with this explanation, we are asking that this law be changed and that, in Nasice, it remains an infringement court for the municipalities of Donja Moticina, Đurđudjevac, Fericans, Koška, Podgorać and the City of Nasice, which is gravitated by over 47 thousand inhabitants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26988	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26989	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposed law on the areas and seats of the infringement courts we are discussing today is a logical sequence of legislative activities of the Government of Croatia since the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts was adopted in the second half of 2008 as well as the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Attorneys. I remind you that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the Strategy for Justice Reform and set for one of the objectives a rationalisation of the network of courts in the Republic of Croatia, by joining courts of the same kind to achieve greater efficiency and economicity. In this respect, the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia was entrusted to the Ministry of Justice under the CARDS project in 2003 to support the reform of the judicial system to draw up a proposal for a reduction of courts. This bill respects the criteria which objectively determine the number of infringements with regard to the number of cases, the annual inflow, the number of judges, the distance between courts as well as the specificity of courts on the islands, instead of the current 114 infringement courts, of which a total of 59 criminal courts are established and their area and headquarters is determined. I believe that it is good that the applicant has determined that the implementation of the rationalisation procedure takes longer to ensure the necessary working space conditions and the technical equipment of the infringement courts in the mergers and which dynamics the provision of these conditions is passed by the Minister of Justice. The bill also empowers the Minister of Justice to set up permanent services outside the seat of the criminal court until a decision is taken to ensure the conditions for the court to work in its seat. Given the importance and importance of judicial reform in the process of joining the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, and believing that the applicant will consider and accept the observations and proposals of the Committee on Justice, that is, the amendments that I have tabled for the area of Licko-Senjska and Zadar County and concerning the remaining of the criminal court of Pag and the court in Novalja, I support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26990	Thank you, dear representative Vlatko Podnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26991	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, so here's a few words just about this bill of law, the fundamental question here was whether it was a merger or an abolition. Personally, I think it's a merger with the suspension because I'm going to explain for what reason. According to the justice reform strategy, the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of Municipal and County Courts was also adopted in this Assembly. Next, it was expected that the proposal for a Law on Areas and Headquarterss of Violent Courts would follow that logic. However, this proposal does not follow that logic for a number of reasons, and among other things, the criteria set by the government in its reasoning of the law do not stand for certain things. Thus, in the area of Virovitica-Podravska County, only a violation court was envisaged in Virovitica for the area of the entire county. Taking into account the number of cases in the current Orahovica criminal court around 900 and in Slatina, about 2.5 thousand that there are two or two judges in Orahovica and Slatina 2, it turns out that there could be no problem in the Slatina criminal court for the former court, Slatin and Orahovica. The other problem is the reason and distance of the criminal courts. It states here that the distance between the infringement courts is that it should be less than 50 km. If Đakovo, from Đakova to Virovitica is over 100 km away, that from Valpovo to Virovitica is about 90 km away, it is obvious that this recommendation has not been followed. Because I'm saying this for the reason that residents in the area of Virovitica-Podravska County, means municipalities... Zdnci, Čacinci and Orahovica do Virovitica have over 50 km. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is said here that it will not be abolished at the very first moment but that it will remain for a while for the misdemeanor courts to be held, but a little while, because the judge is likely to retire, one, two, three, or as many as there are, so it will normally be attached to Virovitica. And therefore, residents of these municipalities that I've listed must cross over 50 km to a mistrial. And that means that the offender will have to beg for one day off, or an annual vacation from the employer, that he will have to lose his working day, that he has to pay travel expenses to Virovitica and normally even punishment if the offender condemns him. It may also be preventive because then they may have to think about whether or not they will commit an offence, but what if the judge releases it if he really didn't commit that offence he was reported for, then it all goes to the expense of taxpayers because the suspect has to pay it off. And so it is questionable whether rationalisation would be achieved in this way, because if in Orahovica, he had lost an hour in Slatina he could not even claim any compensation for a possible acquittal. Also if, according to the proposal of colleagues Bodakosha and colleagues, Borzan is left to court, the infringement court in Nasice and this in Slatina we get the difference between courts, a distance of 45 km, which then meets this criterion around, that the distance between courts is 50 km. The third reason is also historic, because every city just marked a fateful power. If we cut them off and then, along with this climatey economy as it is in smaller cities and municipalities, it remains only for young and educational personnel to seek life's existence elsewhere than in those cities where they intend to do so. For these reasons, I hope that the Proposer will accept the proposed amendments to the infringement courts in Slatina and Nasice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26992	Thank you. Dear Representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26993	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. So here is the proposal for a Law on the Areas and Seats of Violent Courts under the Final Proposal of the Law, so it is in an emergency procedure and I will immediately say that I will support the adoption of this law for the reason that this law rationalises the network of criminal courts and is in line with the new network of municipal courts established by the Law on Areas and Courts adopted by this Parliament in July of last year. I will visit, and this is already mentioned here in the debate that a total of 67 municipal courts have been established by the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, which is a reduction of 41 courts compared to the present situation. The proposed rationalisation of the network of criminal courts, as was the case with the rationalisation of the network of courts and the rationalisation of the network of state attorneys, is carried out in accordance with the judicial reform strategy, i.e. the judicial system that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted in September 2005. Also, as with the establishment of a new network of courts, this law takes into account the burden of individual infringement courts, so the number of cases received on the number of judges to resolve them during the year, the distance between courts, the number of inhabitants and so on. So, as it is said, it is proposed to establish, therefore, this law of 59 criminal courts, which is lower than the current situation for 55 courts because it is currently in place 114, and because of them 106. This law also lays down the area of jurisdiction of infringement courts and determines their seats. Since I come from Zagreb County, I would especially like to refer to the proposal that the misdemeanor courts in Sveto Ivan Zelina and Dug Sela are joined by the infringing court in Vrbovac. I do not think it would be good for the reasons that municipal courts and state attorneys of these areas are joined to the municipal court, or the state attorney's office in the Councils, but also for the reasons I talked about in the debate on the Laws on Areas and Courts, so above all, these are citizens' orientation towards the city of Zagreb, better transport connections and so on. Therefore, I propose that the motioner take into account and reconsider this proposal of mine, so this doubt and possibly propose the merger of these two misdemeanor courts, so in Zelina and Long Selo, to a misdemeanor court in the Sesvedas. Here, therefore, with these particular doubts, I will repeat that I will certainly support the adoption of this law since it is one of a series of laws implementing the total reform of the judicial system in line with the strategy I mentioned, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26994	Thank you. And distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26995	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. This Proposal for a Law on the Headquarters of Violent Courts concludes, as stated by the rationalisation of the Network of Courts. From previous discussions, it is apparent that there was no good analysis, but that there was a cut, which was actually a huge dissatisfaction among citizens of different environments. We also heard a lot about the criteria, I would not repeat them, and that is also the number of objects and distances and geographical specificity, i.e. traffic connection. I would stay in my County of Dubrovnik-Neretva and repeat a provision that abolishs the Lastovo Criminal Court and will actually form a court in Dubrovnik, but that distance I have already said is 20 nautical miles. A man to get to Dubrovnik needs 2 ferrys to change, plus 190 kilometers, almost 2 buses. As for time, lost time, or spent time, I repeat, it is sometimes 2 to 3 days, depending on when the session is scheduled. Then, as far as the financial cost is concerned, that's 300 kuna times plus, I said overnight and diet. Therefore, the citizens of Lastov seek and explain that the court was founded after World War II and continuously worked, Lastovo is too isolated, too far away to actually work elsewhere. Then, an increased number of tourists are expected, of course, and an increased number of foreigners are expected, and we know that they need to be processed urgently and we wonder how they should sometimes be lost for this job for 2 to 3 days. Last year, Lastovo was declared nature park. The rules on the internal order of the Lastov Nature Park and its adoption are now expected, of course, that provisions of the Nature Protection Act will also apply rigorously, especially as regards the rules relating to fisheries, and hence, as citizens say, are expected to increase the subject matter. Therefore, we can say as the State Secretary today said at one point that this is a better procedure, that is, true, and stressed that there is a Law on Infringement, i.e. cases are dealt with by misdemeanor orders. That is true, however, it would be good if it were seen, if this Law on Infringements were to be applied, so if it were to be seen that no criminal court is required, then I accept that it is rational, but until then I ask that these amendments be adopted, so here, and my amendment if the court of Lastovo can't be left, at least to shorten the way, that it be the court of Korčula. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26996	Thank you. And finally, distinguished Drazen Bosnjakovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26997	... As a message of our midst, we do not remove the courts, but organize them differently. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] It also means Lastovo, what you said, if there isn't going to be a court but it's going to be either judicial days or there's going to be some service outside the court's seat, so we're not going to make an organization in that sense that people travel, that they have to sleep somewhere, that they have to pay and have such costs. It's the only purpose of this rationalization to make better use of those people we have in the system. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26998	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u26999	Let's move on. Final draft law on areas and seats of criminal courts This was a law by emergency procedure proposed, P.Z. No. 238. The debate is closed. First of all, we will vote on the proposal for the conclusion of Croatian Vice-President Vladimir Seks, who reads: "The final proposal for the law on areas and seats of criminal courts will be carried out by third reading.". What does the government say? The government agreed, but the Parliament also agreed. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? So, then this vote is still groundless because it goes into third reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27000	We'll vote when the conditions are met. We move on to - - Proposal for a Decision establishing the Research Commission for the Determination of Facts on the Purchase of 39 Military Trucks by the MORH in December 2004, Proposers: 38 MPs, members of the SDP Representatives Club The proposal for a Decision was submitted on the basis of Articles 5 and 6. The law on investigating committees of the proposal for an act has been entered into the boxes. The hearing was conducted by the Defence Committee. Would the proposing representatives like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27001	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for this Decision for the establishment of the Investigative Commission does not, in fact, need to be further or more specifically explained. I think he's more or less self-evident. The event happened in 2004. The D.O.D. decided to get 76 non-combat vehicles, trucks, 'cause they probably needed 76 trucks in the system. The budget provided funds, slightly less than 36 million kuna. In general, goods can be purchased in three ways or in open procurement, by competition, therefore, or by invitation to tender in which the client chooses the circle of companies for which they are estimated to be... the requirements of competition or only exceptional where the specific reasons for the goods so require can also be obtained through a direct contract. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The D.O.D. decided to get these 76 trucks through invitations. They therefore made calls to the vehicle distribution companies and received 23 offers. They opened these offers, a commission that was formed in the ministry to conduct this procurement opened 23 offers and found the most favourable offer for these 76 trucks to be slightly less than €39 million. It means that by 3 million, about 3 million kunas are bigger than the budget's budget envisioned. That's why the invitation to tender was annulled. There wasn't enough money in the budget to buy all 76 trucks and the contest was canceled. The minister disbanded the commission conducted by the invitation to tender and appointed a new one headed by his assistant, Mr Ivo Bacic. So now we have another commission. The second commission proposes to purchase trucks by direct contract. Not by repeating the contest in a way that says we don't have 76 trucks, but we have 75, we've seen it from this first one, and then we're going to call it 75 or 74, but we're going to suggest that the trucks are bought by a direct contract. And the trucks were bought by direct contract and to that end 34 million, nearly 34 and a half million kuna were spent, and 76, 75 or 74 trucks were not bought, but 39. So, for that amount that you could buy almost 76 or a truck or two less, 39 was bought. Now, it means those trucks were bought by the highest bidder at the price offered by the highest bidder. Then these 39 trucks could be bought for 19 million, 19 and a half million kunas, and 34 million kunas were paid. So almost 15 million kunas were paid more than the price that was highlighted in the invitation competition bids. Defence Minister's assistant then, the president of the second commission, Mr Ivo Bacic, claimed that buying 39 of Ivek's trucks is a good job at the press conference, because the purchase contract also includes offset programs. Offset programme means that the seller is obliged to produce spare parts, and parts for trucks in Croatia. However, if you go to the 2004 state audit report, the special part concerning the MRLs, you will see that State Auditor Šima Krasic found that the offset programme's offer is not at all referred to further action at the Ministry of Economy, i.e. Offset program not implemented. Or in other words, that Assistant Minister Bacic, who led the second commission, was not telling the full truth at that press conference. The problem was warned by no less than by the president of the Republic and the commander-in-chief of the armed forces. And for the first time in January 8, 2005. So, directly or very soon after the mentioned purchase. After that warning, an inspection inspection was carried out in Morh, and the inspector-in-chief at the time was General Jozo Milicevic. He drew up his report, delivered it to the minister and was removed. He is today the only Croatian general who is unscheduled. The president of the Republic of Croatia and the commander-in-chief of the armed forces have repeatedly warned and asked for the case to be investigated. So that's not what Stazic said in front of Charlie that there was something suspicious in the morh. This was said by a man who was referred to events at the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces because he was responsible because the commander in chief and we believe he didn't speak of, that he had informed himself before he asked for the case to be investigated. All that time, for four years, both the police and UskoK have said they've been conducting reconnaissance operations for the case. So, we don't have that word from the Ministry of the Interior, or the USKOK, or the State's Attorney's Office, which would go in the direction of a decoded response to say that, there's something suspicious and we're going to conduct an investigation into it. Or say we conducted the investigation and concluded that getting a truck is indisputable and there's nothing suspicious about it. It's four years of reconnaissance. We think that for four years there's little time to spend reconnaissances in one thing that's more or less simple to check. Contracts are taken, sums are reviewed, all documents are taken. Have a conversation with the actors and come to the truth. Yeah? Four years for reconnaissance operations here, we don't think it's necessary. And that's where we come to the moment why we're proposing the establishment of an investigative commission. This is a classic case where an investigative commission, an independent parliamentary investigative commission should actually be established. So, when there's some kind of suspicion of some possible illegal procedure and there's no handling of the authorities. So, when it is possible to report to Parliament amongst the MPs, they suspect that this is also a matter of concealment. So, we don't have the actions of the investigating bodies, we don't have their answer, we have a clear, decided, unequivocal one that would eventually refer to the President of the Republic, so to tell him here I've got a satisfactory answer, I have no further objections to it. So, when there is neither the conduct of a body of persecution, of competent authorities, nor of a clear answer, that is the moment when an investigative commission is to be established. What's to be explored here now? So first, it should be established why the 76 truck procurement process started with an invitation rather than a public competition. What are the offers that have arrived at the invitation tender, what is the offer and which was the most favourable of the bidders. Then why the invitation to tender, who and why disbanded the first procurement commission, was annulled, formed a new one. Who was the committee responsible for their work? Why the approach was obtained by means of a direct contract, not by repeating it even if it was an invitation to tender. What made only 39 trucks available when there was a need for more vehicles? Why was the Eurocampion the one with which the direct contract was concluded? How much was offered price per truck from the most favourable offer in the invitation contest, and how much in the direct contract? Was there a possible advantage for the company Eurocampion by the MARH and if it is in what amount? Is an offshore program for maintaining the purchased vehicles or not concluded as the auditor claims? What did the inspection report carried out at the time when the chief inspector was General Jozo Milicevic? It means he sees the commission getting that inspection report, reading it. Is the state budget of the Republic of Croatia damaged because of any irregularities and in what amount? In the end, did the participants in this procurement make any incorrect or incomplete statements about it that were being deceived by the public? Have they taken any action to cover up possible illegalities in their own or in the actions of others? What I want to point out at the outset on behalf of the applicant, the proposal for the establishment of this committee does not mean prejudicing any guilt or liability. The purpose of establishing a commission is to determine the circumstances and close this story, to close this story so that it does not drag its tails further through history because for years to finally get an answer whether it was all right to be there, how it had to break or possibly was different. So the establishment of this commission goes hand in hand to the actors if they are convinced that they have acted legally and that this commission will establish, because it has nothing else to establish but the truth. We hope that both the composition of the committee and the chairman of the commission will be an expression of the Parliament's best will, the Parliament's best will to lead the work of this committee completely impartially, objectively, without concealment and without planting anyone. And in the hope that all clubs will accept this proposal to set up an investigative committee, I thank you, Mr Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27002	I thank you, too. We have one correction of incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Berislav Roncevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27003	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. There is one application for correction of incorrect allegations, and there are many corrections in this opening speech by Mr. Stazic. Mr. Trailer, this isn't about 76 trucks. The Chief Staff's request referred to 76 trucks. The call competition at no time related to 76 trucks. 76 vehicles of various kinds, rain and need do not mean that there was an invitation competition for 76 trucks. But that's when we don't read a single piece of paper from that extensive file, we give ourselves the freedom to talk about it publicly and take views, unfortunately very often before the elections. The Ofset program is also contained in the State Audit report and it is not true and it is incorrect for you to assume that no one has taken a stand on this. State audit and audit report in this House It's been discussed. [[No, no, no. Time, time's up. Thank you.]] So it's completely incorrect. General Milicevic was not removed from the post of chief defence inspector, as he was not even the chief defence inspector ever, he was the acting officer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27004	Thank you. Does a representative of the Defence Committee want to take his word? No, I don't. And I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric on behalf of the HNS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27005	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I agree with my colleague, Stazic, that at this stage we do not need to elaborate widely and look back at this issue, but perhaps concentrate on the SDP initiative itself. We at the HNS club have carefully gone through your proposal. We believe that you have very clearly explained the reasons why such a commission should be formed. We believe that you have undoubtedly shown that this is a matter of public interest. Furthermore, you clearly set the goals of research, cited the field of research and pointed to 15 questions to which the commission should answer. And you will certainly have the support of the HNS club in this initiative. You've made colleagues from the SDP one mistake, and this is in a memo that you sent to the president of the Parliament, Mr. Bebic. You stated that this initiative was launched by 36 MPs, and on my paper, the photocopy of these signatures is 38. Therefore, this should be corrected a little bit, but there are better two extra representatives than 37 vehicles missing. Therefore, we will support you and hope that the investigative commission will do its part of the job fairly and correctly. However, my colleague Stazic disagrees with your assessment. Namely, if it should be so in the commission it will be proportionate representation as in the Croatian Parliament. It means that the majority of Parliament and most of them will be in this commission. And if the truth is equal to the attitude of the majority, then I have to admit, I don't entirely agree with your assessment that we will easily get to the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27006	Thank you. There's nothing to suspect in advance. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27007	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community's representative club is not opposed to making a decision on the establishment of an investigative commission that would establish all relevant facts regarding the purchase of 39 military trucks by the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia in December 2004. It does not oppose the fact that it is indeed in the public interest in this particular area that all the facts relevant in the public procurement procedure in question are finally and definitely enlightened and that all doubts, all doubt, and the most different interpretations relating to this particular case are definitely removed. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, in line with that position, is also insisting on the consistent application of the Law on Investigation Commissions, particularly those solutions proposed in Article 10 of the Law itself, and they are summarised in the basic three points. The first of them is that the investigation committee is obliged to scrutinise the area for which it will be in charge, as well as any individual case relating to the matter or issue for which it has been established. Secondly, the investigating committee is obliged to establish the right situation and all the decisive and other important facts important for the determination of the truth, and hence to draw the right conclusion. Third, it is necessary to use all means of proof suitable for determining the situation of matters in this case in order to establish the truth in a lawful manner and be in a position to reach a valid conclusion. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community does not object to the decision in question and considers it a really important issue and a question of public interest especially when it comes to the legality of the work of the state bodies, public services and legal persons of public law, and of course issues concerning public morality and fundamental values of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. However, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community is also of the opinion that I am the process of establishing the truth, in this case I need to deprive myself of any pressure and any pre-prepared and engaged political courts, regardless of which side or from which institutions they came from. Therefore, it cannot be accepted that the policy of conduct, i.e. the sole reason for the establishment of an investigative commission, is a public warning of possible corruption or a flat-rate indication of the alleged facts, inconclusive facts from which the relevant conclusions can be drawn today. Moreover, the institutions of this country who are obliged to take care of legal behaviour in public procurement procedures and to control the funds spent by the resolution ministries have informed this House, which, of course, means of finding and thinking in the first row of the State Audition, and, on the other hand, upon the knowledge of the representatives or the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community in a specific situation, no judicial procedure has been initiated in the sense of establishing the criminal responsibility of the participants in the procedure of the public procurement in question. In accordance with the above, I will quote the provision of Article 4. The law on investigative committees, which specifically and precisely states: "that an investigative committee cannot be established for the question on which a judicial procedure has been initiated for so long as this procedure is ongoing or if a judicial procedure is initiated on a matter for which an investigative committee was previously established, the investigation committee will immediately cease its work." I quoted this provision of the law for the reason I wanted to point out that the investigation committee could neither be the police nor the state's attorney's office, nor, of course, the court. It cannot also be put into the role of political pressure on the authorities, which are authorised to act in terms of illegal business, i.e. the possible initiation of criminal offences. Finally, we are not opposed to making this decision, but we are also of the view that even in this situation, we should really insist on the consistent implementation of the constitutional principle of the government's trinity and not be exposed to the pressures, turn this Parliament into a courtroom, no matter how politically political it may seem to him at some point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27008	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Honorable representative Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27009	Mr. Vice President. Mr. Tomljanovic said at one point that the investigative commission should determine the right situation. The investigation committee should determine the actual situation in order to achieve the right situation. It's not the same. The facts need to be established that the right situation would occur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27010	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27011	Thank you. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. It is difficult for me to discuss whether certain public procurement was particularly legal or illegal for this particular public procurement. Actually, if you want to at this point for me it's totally irrelevant though it will be and I think it would be important. The investigation committee will draw conclusions about this, but I'm sure it will have a little impact on the State's Attorney's office and on the possible court, or on the BOOK. But let me just repeat the facts that I've been given for who knows which times you let the phrases, and the fact is like this. He says there's a public tender for 76 to be perfectly clear 76 vehicles, and not to be mistaken, so according to what Mr. Roncevic did earlier, it's not trucks but vehicles. 76 vehicles, 23 companies have responded to this public tender and I want to believe that the chosen conditionally stated most favourable offer. And the most favourable offer at the time was for those 76 vehicles, 38 million kuna. So at least here in this proposal stands and I have no reason not to believe that this is not the right information. So the most favourable offer to buy 76 vehicles is 38 million 853 thousand etc. However, for the 3 million in the state budget, this offer was higher, so the minister by law, I think, justifiably annulled the public tender. But soon after, the new commission is formed and this commission is being given a non-essential task from the minister, although I think it was not even given the task of the minister, but it was part of some decision involving more of the most responsible people. So, the committee is formed, Mr. Bacic as chairman of the commission gets a warrant or approval, or whatever goes into direct contract. And the result of this direct contract is the purchase of not 76 vehicles but the purchase of 39 vehicles and 39 vehicles at a price of slightly less than 35 million kuna. Here, these are the facts. Therefore, a public tender offers 76 vehicles at a price of 38 million kuna and a direct contract arranges 36 vehicles for 34 million and 500 thousand kuna. Now, for me, everything can be perfectly legal in accordance with the legal provisions, but if this job were very harmful and that this job an individual and a person to pay out of their own pocket would never have made it crazy. That's what I think and the little kid who goes to elementary school clearly. And here is the fifth year ending in a transaction like this, a one-time job that is repeated and indicates whether or not it is indicated that it is illegal, whether it is indicated that it is harmful to the Republic of Croatia, that it is harmful to the Ministry of Defence, etc. But none of the institutions that are supposed to react have responded to the end. When I say they didn't react until the end then I think it was justified to expect the State's Attorney's Office to deal with this job, to conclude this job and to say gentlemen this job was completely transparent, in accordance with the law, there was no responsibility of the defence minister and of course it was not expected from the attorney's office, but then I would say that, following that, the President of the Republic, Mr. Stjepan Mesic, is talking nonsense because he has just pointed out this several times. If the State's Attorney's Office were to issue such a statement before that, because it is an interest to the public. Excuse me, if you get 76 vehicles for 38 million kuna and a month later you close a business for 36 vehicles by not knowing 34 million and 500 thousand kuna. Then it is quite clear that it is the least said questionable business. And in that case he who works in judicial institutions then needs to react. Well, isn't it declassified for five years that we here in the Parliament have to actually require an investigative commission to play Inspector Clouseau in order to make those who have been paid for this job the State's Attorney's Office, so if you want to, too, because I think more than three people have been involved in this business, and it seems to me that if you're involved in a business of more than three, then it comes down to a suspected organised crime. Well, here's a chance, we've been bringing these anti-corruption strategies, and I don't know what it's all about, so since we already have these facts and this kind of data, then it's been up to the State's Attorney's office and the U.S.K.A., they've had time to clear these things up. So I'm on two occasions and I'm not the only one in this House asking Prime Minister Sanader himself, although he gave me some kind of answer that he's looking forward to getting an answer here among other things and these questions. Of course my answer was, I still think today is sad regardless of who's headed the government should wait and wait four and a half years to get an answer amongst others and one such question. To a job like this that was done completely non-transparently. In the interest of and of course of the public, in the interest of me, I think it is also the interest of Mr Roncevic, who acted as defence minister. And all those who are calling each other because of this job. Of course the HDSSB will support this. But I assure you, my colleagues from the SDP, I would also like to sign my own at the HDSSB club on this initiative. But this investigation committee will not result in any positive shifts. We're going to deal with the Investigative Commission, remember the investigative committees that were formed in this House, not the only one, there were more. There were no results. This Commission of Investigation is just another proof that the institutions of the judicial system are not working for us, that is, not doing what they should do. Mr. Bajic also knows about this long ago, long ago those who worked at UskoK and if they wanted to run something, then they would have started it, and not after 4.5 or more than 4.5 years of actually welcome it, if you will and let a political party in this Croatian Parliament have to file this kind of request, this kind of material and an investigative commission initiative for which I am certain colleagues from the SDP as well as would be as sure that we have asked for this investigation committee, there is nothing, because this is a political issue and this investigation committee as it says is the God of effort and time. But there is likely, not likely, but certainly only one positive thing in all of this is that the public may, on one occasion or on two occasions, remind themselves of a store like this, which is not just the Ministry of Defense, which, given the figures presented here, clearly indicates that it was a harmful job and that these vehicles were overpaid and that it was actually a business that was planned in advance.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27012	Thank you. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. And that's the first Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27013	Well, I think we should correct the incorrect allegations, my colleague says that instead of 76 vehicles, 39 vehicles were purchased. This is incorrect if 39 different vehicles are not said to have been purchased because the main headquarters that determines the technical characteristics of what the ministry will acquire, meanwhile, have changed its specifications, has sought a military version of those vehicles, adapted to NATO standards. Therefore, it is incomparable to pears and apples, it is incomparable to compare trucks according to the specification in the first tender at the price of trucks from the second tender. That's what the commission will finally prove.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27014	Thank you. And the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the honourable representative of Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27015	Mr. Vice President, Article 209 isn't about correcting an incorrect quote, I didn't mention different vehicles and vehicles. So I didn't tell the difference between the vehicles at all. I allow them to be different vehicles, but I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27016	But it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27017	But Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27018	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please, the correction of the incorrect quote was quite fine! Please, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27019	It wasn't an correction to an incorrect quote because Mr. Hebrang had nothing to correct incorrectly.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27020	Your Honor, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, let's not do that, there's no reason. The second is the correction of the incorrect quote Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27021	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I am correcting the inaccuracies of the esteemed colleague Šišljagic that this procurement procedure was non-transparent. He was completely transparent, if he's incomprehensible, doesn't mean he's not transparent. The exemption from a public tender was based on the Public Procurement Act, Article 6 of Arms, military equipment. The same law was applied a year earlier when my predecessor, Zeljka Antunovic, contracted a remont of fighting aircraft in Romania on the basis of a direct contract, no invitation competition, no competition, and no one ever said it was illegal. The same law, the same equipment, according to why once, once, the second time is not.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27022	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, import what now respected MP Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27023	Mr. Vice President, I am sorry that you have no patience today, but you have hurt the Rules of Procedure, and you have hurt that second time by allowing Mr. Roncevic, for the second time, to actually replicate and he has reported for correcting the incorrect allegations to say that it is not intransparent but even to offend.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27024	Your Honor, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a correction... Right to right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And don't, don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27025	I understand, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, that you do not understand yourself in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27026	Thank you. You don't have the right to laminate in this way and don't provoke that I have to give you a warning, it's not my goal, and I don't want to do it, but I'm going to have to do it anyway if you continue to discuss it in such a way. You have no reason. Both MPs have rightly corrected incorrect allegations. Thank you. Don't throw it away, Your Honor, if you have anything to say, please pick up your word and we'll talk. We have a third correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27027	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I would like to correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Šišljagic, who said that never the commissions of the investigation that were founded in this House have done anything, or that did not result in anything. I would correct that incorrect finding and remind him there at the end of the '90s when we had an investigation committee on wheat, whose way I was then a secretary of this committee as a parliamentary representative and which resulted in dozens of criminal charges in the case of an investigative commission. What this commission probably won't meet and these are the expectations of Mr. Šišljagic, who has already given his assessment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27028	Thank you. And we're moving on to an individual debate. First respected representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27029	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, I am convinced that this investigation committee within three months, if I'm not mistaken, not only will it not come to the truth, it will probably not be able to find any of these 39 trucks that have been purchased. If I remember correctly, a few months ago it was published in public that the USKOK or the State's Attorney's Office conducted investigative actions in this case, and the commission can even work on the main level, the results are recorded in the index. But I'm afraid that then or after it was announced that after the state's attorney's investigation, there will be no elements for further action and the work of this committee... the question or the investigation will be opened, and at that very moment the commission must stop working. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the law. That's why I'm very skeptical about it, but the fact is that according to the findings and the State Audit, as well as the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, this ministry needs help. Three years in a row when it comes to the Department of Defense, I say the three I've been tracking repeats the same thing. The findings of the State Audit, but what is particularly important is that the Ministry of Defence shows that the services in charge of public procurement in that ministry either do not know the law or do not understand it or do not know the application of the law or are related to a fourth. About two, three weeks ago, at the Anti-Corruption Council, the State Secretary from the Ministry of Economy presented the effects of the new Public Procurement Act, said that the service now at the Ministry of Economy is ready to assist the authorities of the State Government and offer advisory assistance in order to bring about any minor violations of the law in public procurement. I think it would be extremely good for someone from the Department of Defense to call this service for help, and if they don't have enough personnel resources, hire these HZ experts, they're obviously very capable because this public procurement problem was solved through offshore companies, so that that and the Ministry of Defense then did probably today's investigative commission wouldn't have anything to investigate. So we have two groups of experts that can be useful. It is either this public procurement service at the Ministry of Economy or an expert team within the Croatian Railways. And 2007. The state audit gave the ministry a conditional opinion. One reason is public procurement. It was the same in 2006 when two reasons were public procurement over 72 million kuna, but I repeat that the Ministry of Defence referred to these findings. First, they accepted the findings of the State Audits and in 2006, as early as 2006, claimed that the competent services within the Ministry of Defence, the Office for Material Resources, the Finance and Budget Administration had received a warrant and that they were tasked with doing their utmost to ensure that these errors in public procurement procedures were no longer repeated. That was 2006. In 2007, the same indication of the Ministry of Defence gave the State Audit report for 2007 and it was the same in 2005 as having responded to the State Audit report by copying the Ministry of Defence's testimony. And I think it would really be useful for the state bodies that we have to go to the Department of Defense to give people help so that we don't even have to compete with the investigative committees anymore, that the State Audit has as little work to do as possible. And I'll finish the next one. I'm just gonna give it up for a study of people who understand that, because I got it yesterday, but I really don't want us to have to discuss my proposal for an investigation committee to buy these two aluminum Finns that we bought. I mean two of these Aluminium ships produced for the cold North Seas, not this salty Adriatic. Because the Finns announced they sold ships for 4 million euros, and we allegedly bought them for 20. So I'm going to try to find this difference somewhere if not differently through the answer to the parliamentary question. Yeah, maybe we've built up the sails of this, so now it's a little more expensive. So I'm done. I will support the establishment of an investigative committee for the sake of form, not the hope that there will be neither truth nor fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27030	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27031	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You told your colleague Lesar, the investigation committee won't come to the truth. I agree with you, but my approach and my concern are completely different from yours. Namely, the reason I'm worried is next. We heard during these half-hours that instead of 76 non-combat vehicles, they were going to purchase 39 combat vehicles. Of course, these are more expensive, better equipped and therefore even justified. That difference, the important difference in price. What is not good is that many HDZ colleagues know it here, and the commander-in-chief of the Croatian Army has no idea about it, he has no idea and claims that business is not clean. So he doesn't know that instead of non-combatants, combat vehicles have been purchased. He doesn't know what's making that price difference. That's what worries me very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27032	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27033	Comrade Doric, you mentioned the commander-in-chief who is concerned. He got an explanation if I remember the media reports correctly that it was the end of the business year, so the money had to be spent because otherwise it would have failed. Am I right? When are you going to read the 2007 State Audit report that I'm not allowed to talk about because it's still not a secret mark or is it? It is. See why 50 million kunas were purchased under the Public Procurement Act in 2007. It was December of the month, so they didn't have enough offices and storage space to accept the furniture they ordered and paid as if all the purchases in that ministry were only going in December of the month. Maybe that's why the Commander-in-chief is worried because we're late for the competition and the planning.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27034	Thank you. And we're moving on with an individual discussion. Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27035	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The procurement is public and corruption is secret. This is the conclusion that can be drawn from this example that lies ahead of us, and otherwise this is also the most common observation by the European Commission rapporteurs when they speak among other things about fighting corruption in Croatia, where they point out that the percentage of secret public procurement in Croatia is too high and demand that this be reduced to the least possible measure in cases which mainly relate to the Ministry of Defence. And here's what my colleague Lesar was talking about. As a rule, when many millions of kunas are spent in December, this suggests that neither was there a procurement plan nor was it a direct contract at the end of the year that generally suits corruption to spend taxpayers' money. All that happened with the purchase of military trucks is an example of how public procurement law can be played, the rule of law of Croatia, that it will normally be all in accordance with the law, that no one is guilty, but that the citizens are damaged because the money they spent on their salaries was spent not in the way the law imposed. Last year, a special meeting on public procurement was held in Opatija, which said that, in general, 57% of investment contracts, corruption appears and that the corrupt rent is about 3% of the total annual income of economic operators, means to secure a public contract between 3 and 10% of the contracted job of waste on a corrupt rent already included in the price. And that is why the fight against corruption, including this corruption in secret public procurement, is the best anti-recession measure that will allow Croatia to preserve jobs and create new ones. It is a very interesting fact that among 14 problematic factors relating to this form of corruption in Croatia in 2002, this form of corruption was, therefore, on 11th place in public procurement, and in 2006, it climbed to 4. That's what I think he says a lot. No one in the world is free from taking bribes, corruption, especially so-called corruption. corruption of white collars, however, which distinguishes the world from Croatia, the fight against that form. We will not elaborate what Finland's Patria did, it was also military equipment where she fought against her people who exported corruption, in this particular case in Slovenia. Therefore, the legal framework of public procurement, and thus public procurement at the Ministry of Defence, is one thing: business morality is another, and ultimately people who are in a position to make decisions and decide whom cheese, to whom cream, and to whom nothing. Unlike the part of predecessors who are skeptical about the scope of this investigation committee, I am convinced that this investigative commission will make a concrete contribution to fighting corruption and will send a much better message than the message currently going towards the Croatian public. Imagine what an ordinary citizen thinks, he wonders what it's worth to get involved in fighting corruption when the president of the state couldn't get answers to questions about what was going on with the purchase of public trucks. It's the most tragic message because then an ordinary citizen will say why I would be involved in fighting corruption. The only thing that can happen to me is that I get hit on the head and I end up in house arrest, and the ones who ordered the attack on me stay still and walk free on the street and collect their corrupt rent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27036	Thank you. We have the correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27037	Thank you very much. It's incorrect what a colleague says, quote, procurement, public corruption, secret in the case that lies ahead. That can be said by the commission, not by you. You prejudge and put pressure on the commission. It's an incorrect statement that I'm correcting that the president of the state has not received the information. The data are in the report of the State Audit for 2004 which clearly states that there is no violation of the law in the purchase of the vehicles concerned, except in the part where the Ministry is not... sent it to the Department of Defense. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The procurement process is completely fine by the State Audit report.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27038	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27039	Unlike you, my colleague Jovanovic, I am not skeptical of this commission, nor of any possible that will ever be established in this Croatian Assembly. I believe in the professionality of all MPs and yesterday I said loud and clear to the press, because at the time I was the defence minister, I support the establishment of this commission. Perhaps working on this commission will give some of my fellow MPs, the truth of the other political party, the opportunity to finally read at least one document contained in this extensive file for the first time. So far, they've generally taken attitudes using media inscriptions, using some kind of flat-rate ratings. This law was passed in this House, this law was used, I said, and a year ago. Honorable counterpart Antunovic, the defence minister before that, contracted a remont of aircraft for some 70m kuna in Romania with a direct contract, or an invitation to tender. Is this the Croatian budget of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, were they then damaged? We'll never know because we have nothing to compare to. There was no offer. The call for competition has been made here, the amount of the most favourable offer exceeds the budgetary position, the law must be applied. I'm not saying he can. He has to. I hope, I am convinced that after the work of this committee, following the presentation of all documents many of my fellow MPs here on this subject will have very different views and that at least they will refrain from speaking this as an eclectic example of corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27040	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27041	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Roncevic, I didn't say I was skeptical, I said exactly the opposite, that I expect the work of this investigative committee to restore citizens' trust in institutions and all those who are obliged to fight corruption. But what you're talking about is the conclusion of an offset program is a classic example of playing the Public Procurement Act where you're contracting works that you know in advance will never be done, and I'm surprised that when you're so sure you're saying that everything was in accordance with the law, then as defence minister you failed to convince the president of the state to whom you were directly and responsible that everything you did was clean and orderly, but this way the president of the state had to come up with an answer which I hope the investigative commission would offer at the end of his work in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27042	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative still want to take the floor? Yeah. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27043	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The SDP Club, as a proposal for this commission, thanks to all those who participated in the debate that we consider to have been constructive and tolerant. There have been three questions, and it would be good if the drafts of this committee, because we see that all clubs support his draft, and the doubts are resolved. Three clubs even raised doubts or expressed their mistrust in the work of the commission, or that it would come to the truth. It would be good, it would be good if when we make a decision on the composition of the commission, on the president or president of the commission, we did so by driving all these doubts away. We have a law on investigative committees, and that doesn't make things too specific. It is said that the commission can have between 5 and 15 members and that the composition of the Croatian Parliament must be maintained approximately. The law speaks of two homes, written since they were two at home. I from this place, although it is a matter of clubs, agreement of clubs, I think it would be in the interest of everyone, including Mr Roncevic, as then the defence minister that this commission is led by an opposition person and that the composition of that commission would be such that citizens and clubs can trust that commission. Since we started it. Let us not do something to reduce trust in the work of this commission and its objectivity. If we assume that it will be drawn up that the parliamentary majority of it, will have the main word and impose conclusions, then of course it will not have any confidence. Therefore, when we establish him in good faith and establish him in good faith, let us show that good faith to the end. Second. It is said here, counterpart Roncevic said the request was written on the basis of media inscriptions, not on documents. Well, it's not just media writings, even though those media inscriptions when they appeared weren't denied by those they were calling or not denied in a sufficiently convincing way. And the other thing is, we also have the president of the Republic who steps forward not only media inscriptions, but are the commander-in-chief of the armed forces' position. We have confidence in the institutional system, we have confidence in the President of the Republic, we have confidence that he certainly invited you while you were Minister of Defence and asked what was with it, and that he had received some satisfactory, acceptable explanation, I am convinced that he would not insist on the subject, precisely because he has this position as President of the Republic and Commander-in-chief, and since there would be some small misunderstanding, a bad media inscription, incorrectly presented data in some newspaper article that would be resolved in a conversation with the Supreme Commander and that the matter would not then be repeated until and dragged up to 4 years to this day when precisely because it has not been unequivocally resolved and we propose the establishment of this commission. Therefore, we reject this observation to some extent that the proposal was made only on the basis of media speculation and inscriptions, without real insight into the matter. This is with the belief that how well we started at this point, that we'll end up so well and that the agreement between clubs will lead to a quality composition of this commission that will objectively examine the whole case. In that hope, I thank you again for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27044	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27045	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, just for the sake of precision, I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that there was no denial of the media inscription. I'll just meet a fellow Stazic, maybe he didn't follow it with the attention he's following today. The defence ministry organised a press conference that denied allegations of illegal business, explained the procedure, and some media wrote about it in other words than Mr Stazic presented today. Therefore, it is incorrect that there was no denial, the press in the Ministry of Defence was, the defence ministry was obvious about it four years ago and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27046	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the voting conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27047	Proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee to determine the facts regarding the purchase of 39 military trucks by the MORH in December 2004. He is proposing 38 MPs, members of the SDP club. The debate is closed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on investigating committees is prescribed to decide on a proposal for the establishment of an investigative commission by a majority of the votes of all MPs 77 and to vote on the proposal for a decision establishing this investigation committee. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? I find that with 109 votes for and 2 against the proposed decision. I call on the representatives' clubs to comply with the provisions of Articles 8 and 9. The law on investigating committees is proposed by members from their ranks to the Board of Elections, the appointment of the Croatian Parliament in order to make a full decision on the establishment of an investigative committee to determine the facts regarding the purchase of 39 military trucks by the MORH in December 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27048	The selection and appointment committee. Next time. Ms. Chairman of the Committee Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27049	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 22nd session held on 20 February 2009 unanimously established a proposal for a decision to appoint an investigative committee to determine the facts regarding the purchase of 39 military trucks by the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia in December 2004. In the Research Commission for the Determination of Facts concerning the Purchase of 39 Military Trucks by the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia in December 2004 are named: as President Nenad Stazic, Vice-President Emil Tomljanović, Deputy Secretary Krunoslav Markovanovic, for members of Prof. dr.sc. Andrija Hebrang, Prof. Dr. Krešimir Ćosic, Stanko Grčić, Goran Beus Richembergh, Boris Šprem and Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27050	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I propose a committee vote. Who's in? Please, here's by raising your hands. Thank you. Against? Restraint? The proposal was accepted by 114 votes, so unanimously. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have completed the 8th session of the Croatian Assembly in this session. The 9th session will be held on time and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I wish you good rest and energy collection for the next session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27051	Let's move on with the debate. It is – - Final proposal of the Law establishing the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 249 The draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, MP Dragica Zgrebec and joint clubs of HSS and HDZ. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Josip Kraljičković, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27052	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. It is my pleasure to present briefly on behalf of the Croatian Government's promoter the Proposal for a Law establishing the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village with the Final Proposal for the Law. This legislative proposal regulates the establishment of the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village as a public institution in the area of agriculture, food and rural development. The establishment of that institution is set out in the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme for the period of office of 2008 to 2011. The programme states that the same basis is being established for researching the analysis, as well as for the purpose of planning, implementing and controlling measures of agricultural and rural policy, increasing the competitiveness of domestic agriculture and agro-business and negotiations with the EU. The founder of the centre is the Republic of Croatia, and the rights and responsibilities of the founders... will the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The activities of the centre are entered in Article 3 and the centre as a legal successor takes over property, assets, rights and obligations, jobs and employees of the Institute of Fruiting, Ministry of soil, Institute of Plant Protection in Agriculture and Forestry of the Republic of Croatia, Croatian Institute of Wine and Wine, and stations from the southern culture of Dubrovnik which cease to register in the court register. Unless... The activities of the institutions they carried out as public activities and other activities will deal with the research already mentioned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The centre's bodies are the board of directors and directors. The internal structure of the authority of the centre body and other issues of importance for the performance of the activities and operations of the centre shall be governed by the Statute. And for the work of the center... this year's budget of 2 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Otherwise, the Centre will provide labour resources as part of the state budget. We will enable this centre with existing institutions and institutions to have a good initial staff, a content infrastructure basis for good work of the centre, to have a good synergy effect, to rationalise the business of existing institutions and through a smaller number of board members and through a more efficient work of all employees in the centre, but also the possibility of additional work through research as already stated. But also to allow centres to improve regional representation and the work of such a centre. According to the current proposal, we already have 135 employees of which 10 doctors of science and 17 masters of science, i.e. a total of 70 employees with high professional training. We believe it's a good guarantee of success at the beginning of the center itself. An example of such a centre, as mentioned here, is found in countries around Austria, that is, Germany and Slovenia, and here we have recently been visited by representatives of the Italian Ministry and their ambassador, where we have been entrusted with cooperation. Such a centre exists in Italy, gathers 26 regional centres and has an annual account of 130m euros and the centre is funded by the state through... Here's what I suggest is that this law be adopted as it is said. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27053	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? The Legislative Committee? No, I don't. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? No, I don't. And the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development? No, I don't. Okay. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. And the first again is HNS, the distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27054	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This Proposal for a Law establishing the Croatian Centre for Agricultural Food and the Village is one in a series of laws aimed at improving the overall state of agriculture, and the fact is that a new contribution should be made, a new inpus to the rebirth of the Croatian village, which was one of the basic reasons and one of the basic programmes. After the last parliamentary elections, the conditioned one of the majority coalition parties towards the other is to support projects and programmes that will ensure the rebirth of Croatian villages. The fact that we receive this bill in the parliamentary procedure in an unusual way by emergency procedure, but given the overall situation in agriculture definitely necessary and necessary. And the fact that we're talking about this law at a time when the entire agricultural strategy of this country is falling apart on all stitches. And that the decomposition by all stitches is data that our export coverage fell below 50%, that with some 64% of our export coverage in 2006, we were able to drop below 50% in 2007 and 2008. The fact is that in the last 10 years agriculture has completely been invested somewhere around 25 billion, but the question is, what have we got for that 25 billion. Are we satisfied with imports with exports below 50%? Does it please us that our total agricultural production has dropped by 20% in this observed time. That our plant production dropped by 19%. Therefore, what is the justification of 25 billion kuna invested in agricultural production in the last 10 years. Or the colors said whether we led the development of agricultural production primarily for farmers, above all for the village useful and whether the village, whether farmers in the country benefit from 25 billion invested or not? Some have, some have definitely. Surely those who receive the incentive to import, because we also have that category of incentives. But whether those small farms that are the basics and whose representation of total agricultural production is more than 80%, whatever benefits they have in these 10 years in those 25 billion. In this context and based on this data, we simply need to discuss in the Club of the Croatian People's Party how useful we are, how effective we are in this proposal for a law establishing the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village. And above all, how effective we are in spending the money of our taxpayers and how responsible we are to the Croatian village, according to the rural development which is most talked about in pre-election time, which is often used as an argument in our personal capacity in our own good desire, but in the very implementation of this few data alone, it says how effective we are. The basics of this law say that we have, today we have a network of colleges of higher and higher schools, that we have scientific institutes from the institution, that we have institutions and organisations established to carry out activities in the field of agriculture that we have institutions and organisations established to carry out activities in the field of agriculture, that we have some other institutes that are involved in the development of agriculture. We have today. And now my question is how, how and in what way and the network of colleges and scientific institutes, and institutions and organisations established to carry out agricultural activities, and these other institutes, which they have contributed to the development of agriculture, in the development of the village if we have today a situation that after 25 billion invested in agriculture, we have less agricultural production by 20%. Is this why the Resorient Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia referred us to the Parliament for the procedure of the Proposal for a Law establishing the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village. Will the center that will unite now become effective? If he wishes, we at the club of the Croatian People's Party will support the establishment of the centre, if he will. However, I ask who guarantees it. Do you trust someone who has run the ministry for ten years and whose management has invested 25 billion kuna and total agricultural production is 20% lower. Do we trust that information? This bill says "mission, purpose and task of the centre". The mission of the centre is to develop the quality of professional research and the quality of the service of agriculture and farmers and to transfer knowledge and technology from agriculture and related sciences into the structures of administration and economy dealing with agrarian policy, rural development or are influenced by such policies as institutions dealing with organisation, production and primary processing, product health aspects and environmental protection in agriculture. It's a great writing, and I'm signing right now. I believe that each of us in this assembly signs such a mission and gives support to such a mission. But my question again is whether at the club of the Croatian People's Party we consider not only in this bill but also in the others, the Agricultural Chamber. I don't know why and why this agricultural chamber's final bill to each new agenda is getting more and more started. I don't know why. Have we recently had the will of the majority passed the Agricultural Land Act, the will of the majority passed the Golf Act. When we talk about the Golf Act, there is one provision in this law that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will make all the necessary provisions within 30 days for the law to be operational. According to my information, and any of you can check it out. The government has not fulfilled its obligation in 30 days. Why? For what? And in this context, a whole series of questions are asked to justify the support of such a proposal for a law on the establishment of a Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and the Village. What are our guarantees? The fact is that this bill enters into one scientific sphere. My question, and my colleague Doric will say more about it later in an individual debate, but my question was whether the Ministry of Science was present at the government when such a bill was passed? Did the Ministry of Science support this bill? Because certain provisions of this bill go directly under the authority of the Ministry of Science. By reading this law, I think that either when it comes to this law at the Government or the Ministry of Science was not present, or the Ministry of Science simply missed or better said, it has tricked its coalition partner into simply coming into the parliamentary procedure something called the Proposal for a Law on the Establishment of the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village. I often, not often, but every time for a pay phone and in a debate in the Parliament when we talk about any agricultural topic, I keep asking the question of the Minister of Agriculture to Mr Pankretić when we will get to the Parliament so-called. Green report. I want you colleagues and fellow MPs to warn you that Article 43. The agricultural law adopted in 2001 by the author of the law is just the Minister of Agriculture Mr Pankretic, which states in Article 43: "An annual report on the situation in agriculture in the previous calendar year, so-called A green report shall be produced by the Ministry and delivered to the Government by 15 May of the current year at the latest, and delivered by the Government to the Parliament by 30 June of the current year. The Green Report", which is very important, "The Green Report contains an assessment of the situation and the economic situation of agriculture and the proposal and how to implement the measures of the agricultural policy for the next period.". Have we ever received that report before? We didn't. It's not 2002, it's not 2003, it's not 2004, it's not 2005, it's not 2006, it's not 2007. Do we get it now in 2009 for 2008 I don't know. But the fact is, we didn't get it. Does the government respect the laws of this country when we talk about a green report in a segment called agriculture, extremely important, extremely important. Is this a correct relationship with all our agricultural producers, especially small rural economies? Surely those who receive substantial sums of incentives certainly do not need that green report, but believe me, those who do not receive, those who are forced, forced to reduce their agricultural holding year by year, unfortunately and shut down, are sure to ask for that report. And believe me, if we get a green report in this assembly, believe me, that all of us, but literally all of us, and the opposition and most of them have enough arguments that everything that's good when we talk about agricultural production to support and to make proposals for what's not good, and the fact is that a lot of it is not good because I repeat, in ten years we invested 25 billion kuna in agriculture and in return we got 20% lower agricultural production. We've come into a situation where we have a coverage of imports with 50% exports. I repeat, two years ago, coverage was 64%. So, what's going on? And finally, at the Club of the Croatian People's Party, we are looking for the importance of the topic, because of the need, because of an extremely difficult situation in agriculture, we are asking that this proposal for a law on the establishment of the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village with the final proposal of the law goes to third reading, for the sole reason to discuss it, to clarify because much is unclear. The 9-point Committee of Law had questions and questions, and there are questions, and to get one law that will benefit from agriculture and agricultural production in this country, something that we all agree that we need to support and something that we urgently need to prepare because believe that we did not prepare them for entry, but we did not prepare them to live at all, a large part of the agricultural producers to live on their agricultural production without saying that we prepared them for Europe. And believe me, our agricultural producers, especially small rural economies, are extremely valuable and hardworking people and make sure that their estates are not abandoned because they won't work, but because they invest 100 and get 80, 60 and even 50. So I say once again, I suggest that this bill, to accept the conclusion, of the Croatian National Party's proposal that this law go into third reading and that by the third reading we discuss all these elements and I hope that we will finally get into the parliamentary procedure and the government report so-called. A green report, so that we can argue with arguments and argue with argument and not put ourselves in a position to discuss the laws of fire nature, laws that generally give farmers a cloudy situation, one hope, and that hope from day to day, from day literally for the agricultural production of this country dies and believe me, hopefully, and we all agree together that hope dies last. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27055	We have one correction, Mr. Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27056	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I would like to correct the inaccuracies where my colleague claimed that the establishment of this center interferes with the intelligence of the Ministry of Science which is absolutely not true. On the contrary, I think that this research that is and will be done through this centre is quite compatible and that the basic purpose is to implement what knowledge and scientific achievements towards applied projects in practice and to help the competitiveness of our agriculture and to help our agricultural producers and also to reduce the problem we have with the external trade balance.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27057	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27058	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. In the introduction, I would say first that we proposed there on the board, on the home Committee on Agriculture that the law goes into two readings, i.e. to go into regular procedure, but on the board here we did not get support, and this goes in favour of what my predecessor, Mr. Korachević, has already mentioned. Before us is the proposal for a law establishing a Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, as the name itself says, the centre should be responsible for jobs in the area of agriculture and food production, and rural development of Croatia. The draft law states that this centre should deal with professional and research work and transfer of knowledge and technology into practice with a view to faster development of agricultural production. The centre should also create the basis for planning, implementing and controlling measures of agricultural and rural policy, in order to increase the competitiveness of Croatian agriculture and its preparation for the European Union. So the centre should be a key national institution for future development of agriculture in Croatia. And it is this fact that gives particular weight and imposes particular importance in making a decision on the adoption of the proposed law. Also, when setting up such an institution, realisation, the current position of Croatia is very important in terms of the degree of development of agriculture and its primary role, therefore, insurance, or better said ability to meet both its own needs and market opportunities in the activities of food production. The fact is that today's Croatian agriculture is not at a level that can be satisfied and which can meet the needs of its own population for food, and in particular create surpluses that could be sold on the market and thus achieve profit. The lack of own production and food, agricultural and food production is compensated by imports that are constantly growing year after year, threatening to make Croatia dangerously dependent on food imports. While in European countries food imports range below 10% of the national food market, it is 4-5 times higher in Croatia, such a ratio of imports and domestic production is not acceptable for a country considered agricultural and in which agriculture should be a strategically important economic branch. The latest data we saw yesterday is in the press that only in 2008 Croatia imported 15 billion kuna worth of food and that imports do not cover 50%, defeating it. In light of such data, the Minister’s claim that the world’s food price has increased and that the value of imports does not show the right trends, i.e. that the situation would look different if the quantities of imported food were to be talked about, therefore, not the prices, are inconclusive and in the context of Croatia as a food producer are extremely unacceptable. Analysing certain segments of agricultural production should be said to be devastating data that in plant production of more than 17 product categories, exports are not more than three categories of imports, in cereals, sugar and tobacco. While in livestock production of 9 product categories exports are larger than in only two categories, in the case of meat processing and fish. In discussions on Croatian agriculture, there is a very common setting that we could, from official sources, hear that we have both potential and capacity to feed our country and to a certain extent to produce surpluses of food that we can offer on the European and world market. Sometimes it can even be said that Croatia could once have fed the entire former state, and now it can't even feed itself. However, it is apparent that there is a marked ineffectiveness of state policy which fails to achieve a balance between agricultural production and exports on the one hand, and imports on the other. The current situation and the obvious problems in Croatian agriculture and possible threat to the future Croatian position of the food industry, and in light of the entry into the European Union, imposes the need for a more serious and professional approach to the design and development of such important branches as agriculture. The key role in this is precisely for the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village. If under the proposed law, the scope of the operations provided for by the activities of the Centre is examined. It is evident that there are a number of activities that have been carried out so far by the proposed components, so the institutions covered by the association in the centre. These new activities can first be classified in the areas of agro-economics, agro-ecology and rural policy. That's exactly the factor that raises the question. Whether the proposed form of establishment of such an institution is appropriate or best given all that is put before it in terms of significance and future tasks, or whether it is too fast and hastened form of structure that could be effective in some areas but at the same time create problems in other areas. When I say problems in the first place, I mean the implementation of the activities of the Associational Institutions, of which in professional terms, 16 of the 26 doctors and masters of science are particularly prominent in the Office for the Protection of Plants in Agriculture and Forestry of the Republic of Croatia. This institution based its work so far on the Law on Plant Health by performing tasks that are extremely sensitive and important for agricultural production and forestry since they are related to the health of natural wealth and, consequently, to the health of the people of Croatia. On several occasions, we have been aware that certain problems have arisen in the mutual cooperation of the said institution and the phytosanitary inspection as an executive part of the protection of plant health and the defence of the entry of various forms of plant diseases in Croatia. Fortunately, there were no more serious consequences. We are afraid that additional burdens in the form of additional transactions may have a negative impact on the health of plant production and forestry within the framework of the centre's functioning. The importance of the health of plant production and of Croatian forests should not be mentioned much, as this is precisely what nature's pollution is considered a strategic comparative advantage in the development of both Croatian agriculture and Croatian villages and Croatian tourism. If the fact that the centre should be engaged in the transfer of knowledge in practice is respected, we wonder why the centre does not include the agricultural and advisory services as one of the factors directly in contact with the local population. Therefore, its importance for the transfer of knowledge, technology and experience to the local population, and thus the presence in rural areas is unquestionable. But we'll be right here in the debate to keep. So, I don't want to go any further. In the SDP, we are not against the support of Croatian agriculture, in its development with the desire to reach a level of Europe's competitive economic branch. But we have some doubts about the effectiveness of the proposed centre that needs to be established by this law. Nevertheless, we will give our support as another element of the development of agriculture. But in the future, we're not going to take it from criticism. If this is another one of the so-called. Podekin's villages or Potojkin's villages, that is, if this is also one of the elements of the entanglement of politically similar personnel, and I must say that in this case it is even seen that I do not even say the name that is hidden from the ranks of the Croatian peasant party. What we need to say is Croatian agriculture is problematic in terms of technology, and first of all, agro economic solutions are offered. Whether and to what extent the Croatian centre that is here today should justify all those demands that are made before it, will meet those requirements that are set before it will show the future. But we will not argue with its establishment, we will support its establishment in the hope that it will fulfill at least part of what is stated as its mission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27059	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27060	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In order for Croatia's agriculture to meet the aspirations of the European common agricultural policy, while at the same time meeting the needs and specificities of our country, it is necessary to bring together all necessary services which can be excellent and effective, while at the same time delivering the necessary analyses, studies and bases to administrative and economic operators at all levels dealing with agrarian policy and rural development. Or they are influenced by such a policy with the aim of creating equal opportunities for the uniform economic and demographic development of each part of the country towards existing resources. Today, such a type of work is done as required by the higher education institution, the scientific institutes of a regional or specialized profile, and several specialised agricultural institutions, i.e. the institution. By establishing a centre that will include in its composition an existing institution in agriculture, i.e. institutions such as the Croatian Wine and Wine Institute, the Institute for Plant Protection in Agriculture and Forestry of the Republic of Croatia, the Institute for Fruiting, the Office for the Land, the South Culture Station. Therefore, institutions which have certain administrative powers, i.e. public powers in their founding acts and other regulations and are therefore financed from the state budget and from their own revenues based on public powers. The initial staff, content and infrastructure base of the centre is significantly strengthened and rationalises and enables greater efficiency in the work of the connected institutions. This will also enable better coordination of their professional work and applied research in specific economies, and institutions located regionally are united in the joint creation of a basis for the creation of agricultural policy and rural and regional development policies including in these efforts of all regional specificities that they are carrying out under the current acts. The centre should facilitate and encourage the process of adapting the growth and development of the agricultural sector and the overall rural area to today's challenges for the globalisation of food, environmental and climate challenges ahead of agriculture. Croatia's agriculture has seen many major changes in the transition period so far. Despite significant investments in agriculture, it has not yet reached a level of competitiveness with successful farms that will join the European Union. Our agriculture achieves only enough and market surpluses for exports to only a few products, while the Croatian village goes back, and economic and infrastructure for now lags behind city centres. This imposes the need for the early establishment of a centre to study and create detailed bases for the management of such national, agricultural, rural and regional policies, which will contribute to the reduction of the inevitable transition damage and help to the optimal use of the opportunities offered by the European Union as a common policy and access funds. Since the programme areas of work and the organisation of the centre are in line with the programme objectives of the coalition agreement, the parties in the government, the Croatian Peasant Party club will support this proposal to set up the centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27061	Thank you. It is HDZ, on behalf of HDZ, Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27062	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, we have before us a bill which, as referred to in Article 1 of this article, regulates the establishment of a Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village based in the City of Zagreb as a public institution that will carry out jobs in the area of agriculture, food and rural development. At first, I would like to say that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will join all those who have said they will support the adoption of such a law in the hope that indeed the future centre will fulfil all the tasks that are to be put before them. The establishment of that institution is foreseen by the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme for the term of office of 2008 to 2011, although it is an institute for rural and rural areas, in order to explore the development of analyses and professional and scientific bases for the purposes of planning, implementation and control of agricultural and rural policy measures, to increase the competitiveness of domestic agriculture and agro-business, and to negotiate with the European Union. Since the Centre for Agriculture, Food and the Village will primarily deal with the activities of professional and developmental character, and only to a lesser extent, in line with the positive regulations covering science, will carry out scientific research and because in the Republic of Croatia, under the name of the Institute, institutions that are dominant in science and scientific research have given up the programme of the intended name of this institution. Therefore, it is proposed to place the name of this institution instead of the initially intended institute, which is significantly more appropriate because of its activity and given the activities it will be engaged in in the future. The fact is that today in the Republic of Croatia, the research, professional and administrative needs of farmers and the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development are being served by different institutions and institutions. So, colleges, institutions, centres, scientific institutes, etc., which are mostly regional or narrowly specialized profiles and are therefore not able to fully reflect the needs of the agriculture and rural areas. It was this fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia encouraged the programme to provide for the establishment of a specific institution, that is to say, an institution that will be able to meet the development needs of agriculture and rural areas based on science and research. The proposal for a law establishing the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, i.e. Article 16 thereof, is assumed on the day of the entry of the Centre in the Court Register, the termination of work of the Institute for Fruiting, the Office for the Land, the Institute for Plant Protection in Agriculture and Forestry of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Institute for Wine and Wine and the Centre for Southern Culture of Dubrovnik. The Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village should also take over their assets and assets, rights and obligations and jobs and employees as the legal successor of the listed institutions. In view of the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development performs the rights and responsibilities of the founders over all the institutions mentioned, and that they are financed from the funds of the state budget and from their own revenues of carrying out activities based on public powers, but also the fact that their involvement in the centre will make a significant contribution to the rationality and efficiency of business and create a sound basis for future scientific research work, we of the Croatian Democratic Community Club believe that the establishment of the centre is fully justified in the proposed way. It should also be pointed out that in the structure of employees of institutions that are being taken over, a total of 135 employees, there are 10 doctors of science, 16 masters of science and 49 persons with a high level of expertise, especially because it is expected that this personnel structure will have a certain synergy when it comes to the scientific research capacities of the future Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village and is particularly important in light of the process of accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of the European Union that requires significant adjustments in this area, therefore in the area of agriculture. Under Article 3 of the proposed law establishing the business tasks of the future centre, it can be clearly concluded that the centre, other than the business of the institutions it assumes, which contain public powers in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Wine, the Law on Plant Protection, the Law on Seeds, fruit material and recognition of the variety of agricultural plants, the Law on Plant Health and the Law on Agricultural Land will also deal with research work from different areas related to agriculture, food and village, or rural development. Since it is necessary in this sector of the economy to take timely measures to mitigate, on the one hand, the transition damages in the process of joining the European Union, and on the other hand to ensure a better use of the opportunities for common agricultural policy and its development funds aimed at increasing competitiveness in the agricultural sector, product quality, consumer protection, environmental protection and improving the quality of life in rural areas, we are of the opinion that in this segment, the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and the Village will have the opportunity to make full contributions. Finally, using the services of the centre, the state administration authorities responsible for agriculture, food and rural development will have assumptions based on quality prepared bases, propose also quality measures for agricultural, food and rural and regional development policies and programmes. For the sake of all the above-mentioned and the proposals to establish such an institution, the Association of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the adoption of the Law establishing the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27063	Thank you. On behalf of the National Minority Club, Ms. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27064	Dear President, dear secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The club of representatives of national minorities will certainly support the establishment of the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village. We certainly aim to explore the analysis, professional and scientific basis for the needs of planning, implementation and control of agricultural and rural policy measures, to increase the competitiveness of domestic agriculture and agro businesses. So, for the implementation of agricultural and rural policies. What is the agricultural and rural policy that we need to implement? The author of this law himself speaks of the fact that in Croatia this has been dominated recently by two opposing, almost uncompromising approaches. One that goes after agricultural production, intensive, efficient, productive, means that it will create a new value, which will generate profit, if nothing else to refinance that same agriculture. In the second approach, I quote, peasant agriculture. Agriculture has a multi-functional character. Agriculture is at the same time a solution to the rural issue, the way and philosophy of life. Full employment, dignity of the lives of the peasants. A worthy life for all who live in rural space regardless of the profession and the work they do, social security, preservation and housing of all spaces, ecosystems, national defenses. It's irreplaceable... Life needs, food. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are residents of rural areas that live on agriculture and agriculture. It's a beautiful idyllic picture. In what way it is financed by respected colleagues and colleagues, if we know that other agriculture, other activities in Croatia, whether it is industry, whether it is tourism, is expected to drop revenue. I don't think it's possible for this idyll to spend this hour, so no rich Switzerland would spend it, just without that first farm. And according to that,... to give you some characteristics of our agriculture, because the further text also reads how Croatian agriculture is, how it is characterized by the low level of production. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what has already been said here today by import we meet 40% of the needs of the Republic of Croatia. In a country that can produce food for 20 million inhabitants. In the European Union countries, an alarm shall be set if the import of agricultural products is 10%. We're talking about 15 billion kuna imports here, which is even 5 billion more than the value of the total agricultural production by calculating food production. We gentlemen are increasing milk imports again. We import 30 to 30% meat. This year, we have to bring in 500 thousand students, because we haven't produced them. We don't have any extras and let's say we won't import. We're not going to fill the loading docks, and right now the prices are the ones that no production can stand. We're talking about rerouting to fruit growing, viticulture. It's happening on our market that we don't have any seedlings, and instead of hanging out with that fruit, these prepared surfaces that if we don't have something imported, we tell the fruit trees to wait for the year when we're going to produce the seedlings. Gentlemen, one year in the fruit industry means a lot, because it takes three, four years depends on the species to have the first harvest. So if we could repeat that we have the resources, so far we could say that we have the capital, I think it's about time. I will no longer call on the green report spoken of by a colleague of the CNS, because I have already repeated it at least 10 times for this speaker. Not to read someone's green report, but to finally know what our farm is on. First, by increasing the incentives by five times, by two and a half billion a year we have invested in that agriculture achieved. To find out who we are, or what we're not. And finally bring agrarian politics. Not two currents, but to know which agrarian policy we're going to run and to harness all the strength to do it. We're going to be easily populist and tell us we don't want to import, but colleagues where our production is. What we threw aside from such imports that we produced at home. We're not throwing anything, which means we don't even have production, and that without imports where we were hungry at this point, but that we can certainly do a lot with quality agricultural policy, so that we can feed 20 million and I'll agree with that. And so, if the establishment of this centre is one of the contributions to make certain steps, to really connect science and applied science, to connect all these powerful experts of individual institutions into one whole and to start, finally, if nothing else analyzes the achievements and points to which to go, we have achieved a great deal. A team more, that's why we support the establishment of this center. We are being contacted by European partner countries precisely from such institutes that offer us programmes to address a particular problem, which they offer and funds from the European Union. Not to spend our resources, but we rarely find a partner this way, because it's right outside that it's either institutes or centres that are still uniting the resources of agriculture in one place, directing them from one place. So here I would like to stress that perhaps a report like this had to come before, that we had to establish the situation before and then move with the establishment of the centre, with the adoption of the agrarian policy, that finally our village was not just an idyllic picture, and life in the country is completely different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27065	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27066	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is when you read this material with the Proposal for a Law establishing the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village with the Final Bill, then I remember those American food and other administrations, so maybe I'll sort of combine something, but maybe it's not very convenient, as someone here said apples and pears, but they're close. I wish that were the case, if you were to set up a model for countries like the United States and we had something similar and if this center that was founded or founded provided one guarantee for the progress of agriculture, for the progress of our village, and what my colleague says before me, went to all those infrastructure, cultural, sports and other facilities such as any Croatian residents in cities, especially in large cities. However, it seems a little bit to me that here in materials I find what exists in terms of agriculture, livestock, viticulture, fruit growing. What kind of everyone who seduces and centres and despite all of these, here is to count here if you don't find it hard to listen, and we all know, from the Croatian Institute of Winery and Winemaking, the Institute for Seeding, Plant Protection, Fruiting, Food Agency, State Ergels, the Croatian Horsemen's Centre, the Stočar's Selection Centre, and then the following are the ones listed on page 5. So, in addition to all these institutions, centers, the agency, we're still on that, I'd tell the catastrophic data that we're importing 40% of the food, and sometimes it's been said that Vojvodina and Slavonia can feed half of Europe. In addition to the fact that in this House of the Government, the Ministry of Agriculture has voted, I would say an increase in incentives, it seems to me to be 4.5 billion kuna. When you ask our peasants, and the other day I was both in Vrpolje and in Kapela and in Gundici, if their colors are after the introduction of the incentives we don't get a positive answer regarding what my colleague said before me, they went to the villages. Which is why, in addition to the existence of all these institutions, centres and all that is called here, because it would be too long to read them, it is not hard to figure out, and this bill that proposes the establishment of the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village as it should change that something. You see, the Croatian Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted a proposal by way of an act on 15 January 2009 to put this law on the agenda for reading in the Croatian Parliament. At the same time, I also have the final proposal of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber Act, which the government delivered on December 12th. So, a month ago. It does not go to the agenda, but it goes to the agenda of the draft law on the establishment of the Croatian Agriculture Centre. I must point out that the plan and establishment of the Croatian Agricultural Land Agency is in place, and in connection with that Agricultural Land Act, which we adopted on 15 December last year, last Monday. So again, somehow we pile up the agency and pile up the Croatian Agriculture Centre, and then we'll have a agricultural chamber, etc. I'm afraid that's what we're actually creating a machine that would say to our taxpayer's burden. We're actually creating this once said SOUR, and today it's in some companies that would cover all these once-in-a-lifetimeOURs, and today the centers, they're seducing, what they're not called agencies anymore, etc. who would then enter that center of agriculture, food and the village. A very broad term that includes a lot of things. I think that some or most of them are right, and those who mention actually also loved certain people or groups on the burden of the budget of the Republic of Croatia, and if we think that we will do something like Mr Filipovic said, it will cease to exist. Well, it doesn't stop the existence of any of these institutions, none of these centers. In full composition, in the same place, with the same resources with the same people, with all the same costs they still survive. They are simply vacuumed by this new centre for the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village with them all staying, and we increase the number of people who will then be in this Croatian centre. We know there's going to be a director, we know there's going to be a board of directors, we know there's going to be a deputy director, we know there's going to be secretaries of directors, we know there's going to be drivers, rooms, expenses, etc. What are we doing? In addition to all these services, centers, institutions and all that we have. We really doubt, therefore, the affirmative thinking that exactly as the gentleman of the HNS or the SDP has stated. And I doubt whether to vote or not. Since the law as a law speaks very nicely and speaks very clearly. What should be done by the Croatian centre is even very nice and explained. And I wish if it were to be realized what is planned in these materials that the Croatian centre would need. But I wonder why all of these institutions, agencies and all of them didn't do it, and they will still be part of the Croatian centre. And is there any hope of repairing something in Croatian agriculture by establishing or establishing this Croatian centre? I'm in doubt, honestly I'm in doubt. I'm even in doubt how to vote. I wish everything that's written here would be true. But given the way we've worked so far and the results in agriculture and the state of our village, I'm very much in doubt. That's why I still don't know how I and my club are gonna vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27067	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. He's gone. Ms. Representative Mariana Petir. She's not here either. Mr. Representative Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27068	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. A colleague, Grubisic, does not increase the administration but is just downgraded by the removal of directors and boards around the director. I will, of course, support this bill, there are more reasons for that, and some of them I will point out. We all know that today in Croatia we do not have a single institution that would carry out scientific but administrative tasks for the purposes of agriculture, farmers and the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Today, such a type of business is carried out according to the needs of a high school institution, a scientific institute of a regional or specialized profile and a number of specialised agricultural institutions or institutions. The establishment of a centre to be included in its composition of an existing institution in agriculture, i.e. institutions, shall significantly strengthen the initial staff, content and infrastructure basis of the work of the centre and rationalise and enable greater efficiency in the work of the associated institutions. This will allow better coordination of their professional work and applied research in concrete economies. In one place, the Centre will develop professional and research work and will transfer new knowledge and technology from agriculture and related sciences to the structures of the governance of the economy dealing with agricultural policy and rural development. The centre should facilitate and encourage the processes of adaptation, growth and development of the agricultural sector and the overall rural area in relation to today's challenges for the globalisation of food, environmental and climate challenges ahead of agriculture. The Centre as a development and scientific institution should be the core of future scientific and professional values and be an expert support to the state administration in the management and management of agricultural policy and rural development. The envisaged programme activities of the centre, in particular those related to new production programmes and technologies, as well as the integration of existing institutions into a single organisational and programming unit, will also enable the construction of a national innovation system that is in reality an institutional form of management and management of knowledge processes in the economy. In the final period of the pre-accession process and the full application of the European common agricultural, rural and regional policy, Croatia is imposing the need for the early establishment of the proposed centre to be studied, creating detailed bases for the management of such national agriculture, rural and regional policies, which will contribute to reducing the inevitable transition damage and help to the optimal use of the opportunities that European common policy and development funds provide. For all of this, I will support this law once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27069	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27070	Thank you, Mr. President. I have to admire my colleague given his visibility that there will be no increase of any employees and already here in the materials we see that there is a director and everything else that goes along with it. Therefore, you also know that, despite the 6% outlined in the collective agreement, the salary increase is still 8%. Therefore, there will still be such foundings not only of this center but also of some other foundings from the Agricultural Chamber and beyond. This is the difference of 2% in the budget of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27071	Thank you. Mr. Box's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27072	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Grubisic, you now have a director in all these institutions and institutes, and you have a board of directors. Now, instead of all these together, we're going to have one principal and one board of directors. Is that rationalization or an increase in administration?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27073	Thank you very much. At 5:30, he stands out ten minutes' notice. It's Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27074	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. First, you will allow me to read a page from our Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. In the last ten years, the funding in the state budget for agriculture has been increasing but there are no effects in terms of achieving the target, there is no increase in agricultural production and imports are growing. I think it's one of the key sentences in this report, and it certainly needs to be considered as a follow-up. But I will try to elaborate later and give some complaints about the center itself but clearly that the variant A is to establish a centre, try to fusion people who are dealing with this job, try to achieve a new quality but there is also a variant B and it is to get rid of the incompetent, inefficient, inefficient people who are now operating in a system that makes us have a situation like this. I think that would be a much more efficient methodology of work. Unfortunately, even some of our colleagues sitting on these committees claim the opposite of what the figures tell us. Some even think that more production has been achieved that the coverage of imports by export is increasing and higher, which is a little bit saddened that we convince each other what we know is not and I think that at least we must be correct and honest with each other. If you just look at the table views and I got from Minister Pankretić a few months ago a table picture of what's going on with the agricultural exchange then in 2003, the import deficit was $500 million, that next year it increased to $726 million, that it fell a little to 713, that the further drop was to 674 and then again last year we have again an 843 million dollar deficit, and in the first seven months of last year alone, it was already 823 million. So, colleagues and colleagues, a small fall sometimes means nothing. The trend is evident. We've come from 500 million dollars of agricultural exchange deficits to over a billion, which is certainly not good, and I agree that something needs to be done. What I cannot accept is clear when we have brought to this law by emergency procedure we see today when we have passed this material a little more carefully that even our Legislative Committee has a large number of complaints and very serious objections to Articles 2, 3, 11, 12, 14, 16, 17, 18, it certainly means that we should agree today to go to third reading, because it seems absolutely justified if we want to get one quality law and if we really want to move in the area of agriculture. Just a little bit more, like this, now as a scientist I'd like to say a few words. Look, it's Europe to start its economy nine years ago to adopt the Lisbon strategy. This Strategy is based on the Bologna Process as an educational and scientific basis for the Lisbon Strategy, to increase the efficiency of the European economy. We, in the light of this law, argue that the networks of colleges of higher and higher schools that traditionally in their activities and so on, need to cover this area, they are not competent, they cannot do this because it says here today are in a certain transformation and direction towards new higher education requirements and new scientific criteria. So it is said here that this very Bologna, reformed higher education is insufficient, which is absolutely humiliating for those of us who act in this high school and who act as high school scientists. The same is claimed for scientific institutes and is said only this centre and the only centre can and should be the way out of the present situation. Now just let me find page 12. Despite all of this, in Article 3 of this final proposal of the law, we have the following tasks, research into biotechnical sciences, the field of agriculture, etc., research on economics, agriculture, etc., research on quality factors, lodges and wine, research on fruit growing, olive growing and vegetables, etc., research and so on. My colleagues and colleagues, if this is exactly the primary and primary activity of this center, then my question as a scientist is why isn't the Ministry of Science funding this research and not the Ministry of Agriculture? Why the rest of us scientists don't compete with our colleagues from this center in a public competition for projects from their fields. Instead, they are completely out of the system, they are financed by quite other criteria that are 20, 30, 40% more favourable than the criteria for us other scientists. 7, 8, 9 thousand scientists by the only criteria, 30 people by other criteria, for scientific research. What's... Unacceptable, absolutely unable to support it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, look at the little table on page 8, you will see that it is expected to be increasingly and more isolated from the state budget for the work of these people in the center, and less and less with their work on the market. So far, it's been 36 million total of which 16 of the state, 18 on the market. Now colleagues are proposed under this law to make it 42 million of which even 26 million, so 10 million more than ever from the state budget, and 3 million less on the market, which is totally unacceptable. I would very much like to see how many colleagues we are celebrating here, the magistrates and doctors of science, as they have really published works in professional and scientific journals that are listed in territorial publications, which are worth something, as a reflection of the quality of their work. I've inserted into the database, some of these institutions, and I'm going to tell you that one young woman in her 30s and a few years who won this year's state award has more papers and more echoes than all the colleagues from several institutes here together. That's not good. They're going to get out of the country 26 million kuna and this young woman I'm talking about gets 70 thousand kuna a year for one of the most successful projects a year. That's embarrassing, those are criteria that are unacceptable, they're... systems and we can't work like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is humiliating for every serious scientist, this is a message that those who are serious, who are real scientists must seek their happiness in another country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27075	Thank you. Mrs. Chuhnil, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27076	I'd like to replicate my colleague Doric only in that segment that this center is not focused solely on scientific research. He has just focused on applied science and on monitoring the application of science in practice. We have soil institutions, plant protection institutions, dispersal institutions, etc., you cannot achieve united production without synergy and without cooperation from these institutions and yet because of certain policies each institution and runs its own policy this centre should now connect this work and primarily means monitoring production in practice. And that means analysis and laboratory, but I don't think it's a focus on scientific work and that it's not supposed to be considered a competition of science and what is run by the Ministry of Science and Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27077	Thank you. Answer Mr. Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27078	My colleague, I would disagree with you, I know there will be a whole series of jobs here to do colleagues at this center. However, that component relating to permanent and scientific research must go to a public race with me or with Europe. There are FP7 and Programme 7. The European Union, I would like to know how many of these colleagues have ever received from Europe, have withdrawn funds for their quality research. I'm asking you how much? Probably as much as they deserve.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27079	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh has his word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27080	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This center for agriculture, food and a village like this is a sound name. In the proposed law listing what they will do, they too, should be our guarantee in the bloom of our agriculture. At that time, this farming of ours would be free from food imports, and there should be a bloom of our village. But just over the last 15 years we've been coughing with this production, we depend on God's will whether our factory without a roof, our fields, our agriculture, will make yields that will be sufficient for self-sufficientness. In the last 15 years, the production of wheat has not exceeded 5 tonnes, and corn production has also not exceeded 7 tonnes per hectare. In 2008, when these climate conditions were good, the average rose for the first time. However, we also had cases of expensive imports, we also had excess production such as last year's wheat harvest and corn harvest due to precisely these good climate conditions. However, the problem of these surpluses arises. The Ministry's wanderings are present. It shall be brought here within 12 months of the adoption of the Regulation on increased support for corn from 1250 to 2250 kn per hectare. That's hard 260 million to pay off. Why and when? In conditions where production was almost two and a half million tons of corn. Production that led the corn market to stand. Why? Because we don't have developed livestock. We also imported 80,000 tons of corn before harvesting for $34 million in the year in which we had so much production. We may need a centre to prevent such a move, because we see that the ministry seems to be losing, which, as well as the cohesion action of the Ministry of Agriculture, should also tell the Ministry of Agriculture what it says is high production, how it is achieved and when it is co-financed, and when it is exported or imported. However, when I read this bill in Article 2 it is said that the law, the founder of the centre of the Republic of Croatia, and the rights and duties of the founders, is carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. I fear that this centre will be the ministry's outpost that it will not be able to have its own opinion, that very little will be able to carry out the activities for which this centre is founded, which are listed, which are very high-quality. This is also confirmed by other articles such as Article 6 where the president and three management members are elected by the ministry, that Article 7 without confirmation of the ministry cannot lay down the statutes, that the budget of that centre can be discussed when the ministry approves it. So I don't know why we're forming a center if the ministry is going to determine what this center is going to do. The basis of this proposal for this centre is made up of existing institutions, and this is the list of the Institute for Fruiting, Ministry of soil, Institute for Plant Protection in Agriculture and Forestry, Croatian Institute for Winery and Winery and South Culture Stations in Dubrovnik. When I read it first, the question arises to me why these very institutions. I don't think we've ever gotten that on the board or here from the promoter. Why are these institutions when they are as institutions and organisations carrying out their agriculture activities and many others not to list Boro Grubisic here also listed them by the Ministry of Seeding and the Croatian Food Agency, etc. The question arises whether the directors of these organisations were too strong to allow their institutions to join in that centre or whether these listed were too weak, so they now put these five under one hat says and there will be no director, etc. But I don't know where these people are going somewhere. He'll still work. He just doesn't call himself the principal. I don't know that part. So I'm afraid that, once again, the formation of something new like this with good programs and tasks that are listed to be very difficult and that not only these five institutions should be united, but all the forces that we have in order for this agriculture to be launched, rather than this half solution. Finally, the name of the center is also the village. Today, it is a hit to talk about rural development both in the European Union, as it is the entry of the 12 last countries that have a large part of the rural landscape also has this more represented problem. This is why, in the European Union too, the accession of new members is increasing rural development policy, which traditionally relies on agricultural policy as the main bearer of economic development in rural areas. Therefore, in rural areas too, agricultural policy should be much more pronounced. According to the criteria, the international or our Republic of Croatia has 45 to 50% rural areas. That's why this center in that part of the area I think would have a lot of work to do, because that village is right in the rural areas. Unfortunately, however, there are few in these jobs and tasks. Also, I think that without an advisory service which is not included in the centre there is one phalling, because on the whole field this advisory service should be even more present and as such should be the most significant lever in the part of the development of these rural areas. And for this reason, I believe that the very primary objective in this part is to solve the creation of concrete agriculture, competitive agriculture and forestry in these rural areas, the protection of the environment in rural areas and the insurance of a quality life. Normally, it takes people and programs to do that. Is that why the center will be trained with these five organizations that it will join? The foundation needs to be considered me, but to be successful, he's going to need a lot more community knowledge than he starts with. And that's why I think it would be a good idea for another reading of this whole bill to go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27081	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Goran Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27082	Dear fellow Bodakoš, in your debate, you pointed out the fear that the relationship between the director and the manager and how they are called could be increased by the formation of a centre like this and that in principle it could be the point of establishing such a centre. In the proposal for a law in the area where the necessaryness and justification of the included institution is discussed in the centre under the point and it speaks of that all these institutions have staff members in their capacity, so it is said directors, secretaries, accounting and staff affairs and so on, pointing out that this centre should be rationalised, if it is more rational business related to the rationalisation of jobs, then it is expected that it will not have. At the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, we have also asked a question to the Secretary of State in this context, and we have his interpretation that this will not mean an increase in the number of such management functions. I'm inclined to believe what you said would still be another director more so that the directors could move on to the leader's category and so on, in principle, that at least one place could increase. And as for your observation that the ministry is losing, I'd say maybe not the ministry, but the minister in his statement yesterday, interpreting that it's not true that imports are growing but that the price of food on the world market has been growing, so it's interpreted in quantitative amounts, and then we would actually find that that's not the case. Unfortunately for the minister and for all of us, in principle, money is measured, not so much in quantities, tons, sacks and so on, so we'll have a huge disproportionateness in the money, and maybe not in quantities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27083	Replication response, Mr. Representative Drago Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27084	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Heffer, what you said about the number of people, about the director who's going to, whether he's going to call after the headmaster or I don't know how, I think in all this activity that should be because these people are going to continue to do their jobs and so on, there shouldn't be so much trouble. The problem, however, is that not all the institutions that are supposed to be in this centre for me are included. Why isn't that all involved? Why do we only go with 5 institutes, if or organization, if in all this work we need much more and much more quality people and to solve these problems. And the problems are certainly big, what you're saying, I'm saying I don't know which times I've already spoken about imports, exports and scissors that are growing, regardless of what we're getting, and that's good because they're more trafficked by goods. However, it is trafficked with import goods entering our home on an increasing number of our exits, which is why there is an increasing imbalance. And I think as long as it's so that it certainly can't be good for us or for this country or for all agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27085	Mr. Representative Petar Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27086	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In this inevitable liberalisation of economic flows, Croatian agriculture is and will be exposed to the import of flows of science, flows of agricultural research of all species from fundamental to applied and separated. These import surveys are financed both within large companies and by exporting countries with relatively large resources. Imports of science and agricultural research will be intensive and indirect, by direct means. Large companies impose on the market their product, their science and knowledge as best. Experience has shown that under such conditions, direct and indirect imports of science and technology cannot count on the choice of implementation of those solutions that are most appropriate to individual, therefore also Croatian ecological and socioeconomic conditions, needs and opportunities. Also, there remains an unquestionably important need for research to be carried out in the national domain which is the necessary basis for selecting adequate and balanced measures of agrarian policy and science, knowledge and knowledge that are important for our specific areas of production and for untapped Croatian potential in major and marginal productions that can achieve competitiveness in domestic and foreign markets. In all, Croatia's short period of accession to the European Union requires specific agricultural and rural research and knowledge and very spot-based action in the development sense, as well as in different conditions after joining the European Union. Not only for a certain degree of compatibility and organisational administrative functionality, but also for the fact that in time for Croatian agriculture, the maximum useful input level, structure and quality of production in agriculture in future relations with the European Union... in relation to countries in the region. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, debates in the village, rural areas are mainly linked to agriculture alone. This is only partly correct because even though agriculture is an inseparable activity of rural areas, it is not the only one. It is also documented observations showing a future relative reduction in the importance of agriculture that the total of activities taking place in rural areas, although still with permanent unbreakable relationships. Therefore, the overall rural development should be seen with several aspects such as the historical, traditional, modern, spiritual, sociological, population, ecological, material, educational, health, all kinds of economic, transport, architectural and tourism teams, the more we need to systematically consider rural space and development in Croatia today as an important component of the future desired quality of life and economic prosperity. That's why a center like this is welcome and should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27087	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27088	I agree, in principle, that's what I said in the debate at the club that a centre like this is necessary, especially when the rural part is mentioned, say Vukovar-Srijem County, Spačvanski pool. One of the parts of this centre I was talking about was the Office for the Protection of Plants and Forestry of the Republic of Croatia. For example, the Spa swimming pool can be very easily endangered if one weak or ineffective at a certain point by an office that would be overloaded by some other activities there are imports of some of the quarantine disease, such as strizibbe from China, which is very common on palettes, on various parking elements that come from these areas. We know we import a lot of Chinese goods. It is dangerous for the oak forest so much that it only attacks not only the tree, but it enters the root, and you get into a situation so that what you say don't blink and the entire Spačvanski pool is infected to the point that it's impossible to correct it. Therefore, in this context, one important thing for rural development, but it is important that they do their job perhaps better than before, precisely because of all these international movements in the area of transport of goods and services, and it would be good to say in this context that these institutions, which are listed here, are primarily for their activities, and only after that the agro-economic or agri-ecological and rural part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27089	Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27090	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Representative of the Croatian Government. So first, something in principle regarding the Proposal for a Law establishing the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village. I can say the most concise thing about it. The people say water boils for these products, water cools, water stays water. Why do I think that? So this bill of law is undoubtedly a genetically modified financial form of an institution. Why? Because the Law on Institutions in Article 1 determines that the institution must be defined as a profitable or non-profit institution, and in the proposal for a law on this definition, this definition has been avoided and not by accident. Not quite by accident. Because in Article 11, if I remember correctly, Article 11 of the Centre’s operations and work has been provided, it will be provided through its own engagement and from the budget of the State. That means you can do it one way or the other, which is not a bad basis for getting involved to work at this center. Secondly, I do not think it is possible to discuss the strategy for the development of agriculture, especially villages, sustainable development of the village unless the national, national development strategy has been defined. Whether we keep our lives in the country or not. Are we going to force agro-business in Croatia, and I think you know what agro-business means, or are we going to write under quotes of peasant agricultural production? I immediately say I'm for peasant agricultural production. Croatia cannot be competitive multi-capital in agriculture to be competitive in agro-business. We can't compete with soy products at all. We can't compete with American grain production either, but Croatia can certainly compete in diversity and conventional production if I express myself well in agricultural production. Protect the areas and the country anyway, but speaking of why they chose the center. Of course I don't have anything against the center. Yes, of course. But let him be properly founded, and let all the services be united, and let him be told who he will work for. It says here in Article 2, I think it's the task of the center. That it's going to be founded, say, the Olive Institute. ... Yes, yes, but I know that there is a private olive and olive industry institute in Croatia that has the license of the European Union and its license is now valid in the European Union as well as in all other institutions in Croatia. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Why do we do this if we have not defined what is the purpose, what is our strategic goal in agricultural production, and in particular the sustainability of rural development, which I think is crucial for the Republic of Croatia as a country that must protect space, and we also boast that it is the most beautiful, but also tourism as a city. That is why I cannot understand even when such laws are written, so when it is predicted that, let's say, this is what my colleague Podnar has already said that he will give the minister consent to the statute. So we have a living and healthy government that corresponds to the Croatian Parliament. What is this spare position, the spare power of the minister in the Croatian government. And the Parliament is directly responsible for the government. It's not possible to accept legal standards for such a thing to happen. As far as legal standards are concerned, there is a fellow respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the conclusion of this House, that one law cannot be amended by other laws, and that standard has been violated in Article 14 or which, if I see and remember again, the whole article says that some articles in other laws will be changed. Such production of legal uncertainty and obligation, the wrap of those persons who will be made legal and legal certainty is not allowed. It's illegal, it's simply not a legal standard that a civilized and legal state will not allow. A little text and we'll change everything. Do you know who's making the decision to change the activity of the center? The board of directors. And the Institute, the institution is important for the Republic and the Croatian Parliament is established by law, and the administrative council could change the activity. And you know whose consent? With the agreement of the Minister. So too many absurds in the little text of the law. There are others that value, a value that can be estranged from the centre as an institution, is determined by the statute. And the statutes are passed by the administrative council. And for everything the institution does, it's a subsidiary state. So, we binco signed the trust that we will transfer our responsibility to the administrative council of the center and he can alienate neither I know what, and then when he comes into difficulty, liquidation, please stand behind us. It is so, I must admit that it is unacceptable both with legal and political and interest protection, so to say the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that this law will certainly not be supported, supported by any member of this Parliament. I must believe in your responsibility, I must believe in your responsibility. We need to know that by law two million we will give in the establishment, and then still in constant continuity from the budget, and we will pass it all on to the Minister and the Administrative Council of the Centre. Thank you very much. Merhaba would say in Bosnia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27091	I didn't hear, this last one, I'm sorry. Well, you don't have to react to anything. [[It's written, it's written.]] Okay. [[Aggression: You shouldn't.]] Replica, respected representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27092	Comrade Leko, I thank you for these words and for your performance. You have touched something, however, which may need to be more detailed in order to make it even clearer. When fusion is done 6, 7, 8 institutions in one, then we expect the rationalization of equipment, search, people, you don't have to pay for the arrival of an external expert, now you're one. You don't have to stop at someone else's lab now you're one, space, everything else. However, the system is more expensive 15% and for the state it costs 40%. That's unacceptable to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27093	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27094	Dear colleague Doric. There's still a problem, it's not reshaping the current ones, it's vacuuming with all the weaknesses and hiding the current weaknesses because the situation in agriculture and the village and with it we're not satisfied with the whole. It's probably part of the Croatian problem right in that accident that we've been developing agriculture for the last 50 years, but we've been responsible for the last 19 years. I am no expert, but if Croatia can really be introduced and everything is better than the Croatian product and you will admit that we are going to the market to see if the product is from... in Split, either it's from Sukosan or it's under the plastics somewhere here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, we have culture and we want what we want from agriculture but we weren't determined to protect our interests and you're right that we can't just put down now and cover up all the previous ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27095	Second replica, Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27096	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I think that my colleague Leko, from one other point of view, may have now said this part of the linkage between the centre and the ministry, which is certainly as a man of profession and related to the law more normally and better explained than we who have spent our entire lives dealing with agriculture. However, what I believe and what I was, I mean I wasn't, whether I was a witness or not in some cases, all that was prescribed by the directives, which came from the ministry very often ended in one collapse, a decline like in these 50 years, as were the conducting seeds of rice under the directive of the Ministry of Jelas field and such things that the ministers who had seen, heard and wanted to pass on to our fields. I also think that if we set up a centre that will have the authority to work and everything will be determined by the ministry and the minister that this centre will not be successful but will be restrained and what is well done in these terms and that good can become very easy to get bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27097	Thank you. Final review. State Secretary Josip Kraljičković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27098	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. I show satisfaction with your discussion, your profession, very interesting analyses that are useful and will certainly be useful for the center itself. Well, I'll start first maybe from some findings that don't stand. We have official data sent to the European Commission on our agricultural production, our use of areas. The official information in 2007, or 2002, 2000, means the last 7 years of data indicate that we have increased the use of agricultural land. So we can't talk about the reduction and these used agricultural areas and then neither production. Why that, where you can still see it. During that period, we increased the area under the orchards by 14% of the area under the vineyards by 14%, the area under the olive groves by 25%. In this same period we increased the number, the total number of cattle, the methodology we speak to the European Commission, not ours, because it is now even, so all the data are translated to that year and to that methodology. Milk production has increased by 42% in this period, so we can't talk about the decline in agricultural and used area production and the talk of being in vain or where the support money was spent. We have to say that less than 5% of the agricultural population involved in agriculture achieves about 6% of Croatia's total gross product, that now interesting when I speak again about exports and imports that in the total exports of Croatia, agriculture also participates in the food industry with 10.1% means 5% of these products over 10% of total imports I speak for 2008 of total imports, last year's annual imports. When we talk about imports, we charge agriculture as a major culprit for Croatian imports. In total imports of Croatian agriculture and food industry participates with 8.6%. In the total trade deficit, agriculture and the food industry participate with 7.4%. We listen here today it's always interesting and it's always useful because the public likes to hear, export, import agriculture, it's a problem. Well, it's gonna be and it's been a problem and it's gonna be further, it's not just gonna solve it. It will be solved by the business of Slovenia with half the population, half the area. It has almost similar indicators of imports and exports. Almost the same. It means the same ratio of imports and exports. When it's also said here, and it's not true, I'm talking about data for the whole of 2008 means complete data of imports and exports. Export coverage is 53.8%. So more than half, not less than 50%, but more than 50%. So I have official records for the whole year. And I wouldn't go on with importing and exporting, but we still have to stretch it all the time when it comes to agriculture. When measured in dollars then imports increased in this 2008 compared to 2007 by 21%. When we measure it in euro by 13% and when we measure in quantity by 1%. But we have to say it again and again. More than a quarter of the total imports of Croatian agricultural food products Croatia will never produce, related to products that Croatia has no conditions... nor to produce. Secondly, in 2007 Croatia was the largest drought that resulted in a decrease in production, lower production. There was also a rise... demand and consumption in that year. So we have three factors, and the one that has been particularly affected is the rise in the prices of agricultural products on the world market, as well as ours. And that is why it comes from looking through money, nominally increased imports into Croatia of agricultural products. When we talk about exports, it is slightly higher than 1%, or 3% depending on cocoa being measured. And so we can say that the trade balance of Croatian agriculture has a negative trend, but that there is no catastrophic trend and that agriculture is not the one that is the main and the most impact on the overall rebalancing or deficit in the overall Croatian economy. When we talk here about the very text of the law and the reasons why this law is proposed. Well, we're all well-known, and here we've heard very nice and pleasant debates useful. Croatian agriculture and the village need a new organisation that will prepare them to continue to lead the European Union. And these preparations that are being conducted today, they will be the largest, most important, perhaps the most dynamic right in agriculture. For example, from the total text of these 18 thousand adjustments reportedly pages, thousands of pages are waste only on agriculture. When you turn it into certain organizations now, certain forms that will implement what Europe is asking of us, then it will be necessary to establish new agencies and new organisations that will respond. When we talk about the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, we have come seriously from the programme which is clearly written for the first time... Croatian Government and this material that you have in front of you is a material that has dealt with almost all the conditions in order to get to know each other better, the conditions that are both in research and in science, and in the profession in Croatia related to agriculture and the village. And we conclude what we heard in the debate, that no one in Croatia sees Croatia as Croatia from the area of agriculture and rural development. And this center, this law shows that it is found to be more effective in exercising public authority to say what these institutions today have that are listed here to join together. Secondly, to answer those questions that are ahead of us and which you today have asked, analysis, research, answers, backgrounds, for the conduct of agrarian policy, and why the Ministry of Agriculture had no right when other ministries also have and even have some and have their own companies which are founded as institutes for implementing certain measures is considered normal. Somewhere in the world, so in the European Union it's normal and it can be. And here as a centre is a very important background for both the Ministry and the Croatian Government, but a common Croatian society to resist foreign influences and not even a joke, but we seriously think about the possibility of exporting our knowledge of our creations that will also happen through this institution. There is no need to be surprised, because we believe that this is possible if through government regulations we have established all the institutions and with them on behalf of the Government is the founder of the Ministry and the Ministry is doing what is said also and here it has been similarly done and has not been violated by us by any of these principles that have been in practice so far. What was the collaboration with the Ministry of Science, and what is its role? Well, this is exactly what was done in collaboration with the Ministry of Science. And we've come to this best solution. No one in Croatia today is forbidden to either a natural or legal person if he has the conditions to deal and apply to projects of the Science Ministry of Science, but he has to get permission from the Ministry of Science. Anyone can do that, and that's what this center will do when it's established if it's considered useful to market and, of course, get it. And he'll be able to do that research. If you consider that useful. But here, above all, it is important and useful to apply research to the development of agriculture, new technologies and all that is related to the competitiveness of agricultural production and what is called further management of agrarian policy. We believe that the need is justified and that everyone else we spoke to for this need. We also visited and analyzed all these institutions until this law was prepared, and we have just found that those mentioned here best fit the concept and tasks put before that new institution. The Croatian Institute for Agriculture and Consultative Service plays another role, transfer of knowledge and skills to farmers. Through this center, he will get knowledge of advisers and skills that he will be able to pass on to farmers if he needs it. For example, in this case now, the Fruit Office, etc. research of new varieties, etc. is already being conducted. This will be useful, it will be passed on to agricultural advisers as the basis of those who will carry it further into practice. When it comes to agriculture and this centre and its role, we must also not, in all of this, miss out on what importance the European Union attaches to agriculture and rural development. 42% of the total budget of the year, it's somewhere around 50 and some billion euros is allocated annually to agriculture and the village. This means that everything that we have discussed about support is included in this, as well as all that concerns rural development, and assistance to research and community assistance in terms of education and all that is related to development and rural development and agriculture. As far as the text of the law itself is concerned, he has passed through us all the bodies involved legally and we have respected what we have received from our bodies who are in charge and we believe that we have done within the possible best text of the law that we hold that we will establish a more efficient and rational institution or institution that will answer these questions and be respectable in Croatia and outside Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27099	Thank you. Five rectifications of incorrect allegations. The first is the respected representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27100	Thank you very much. It's about the information Mr. Secretary of State made. Mr. Secretary of State, I fully understand you and I fully understand your role that here in the House you must defend the impossible, that is absolutely clear to me. The data we are talking about and when I talk about reducing agricultural production, the data came from statistics, the data we received from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. Therefore, I understand that these three or four product groups that you are trying to justify the success of our agricultural production that it is a beautiful and wise gesture, however, total economic production has dropped by 20% in ten years, data from the State Department of Statistics and the Chamber of Commerce. And you mentioned why the ministry doesn't have the right to make one of these proposals and to set up one of these agencies. I fully agree with you, but at the same time I wonder why the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public have no right or have not been given the opportunity through the green report, which is an obligation to hear legally what is the situation in our agriculture, obligations from 2001 and until today we have not received any reports. Does the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public have the right to hear the green report and hear... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27101	My colleague, this second part is not a correction, this is a comment. It's the first one, the second one's not. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27102	Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting the inaccuracies of the secretary of state who said, "Agricultural exchange has always been a problem and will always be a problem.", which is a completely incorrect state secretary, absolutely unacceptable. In 1992, the Republic of Croatia had a surplus of exports of food and agricultural products over imports of $16.4m. In 1993, the surplus amounted to as much as $49.9 million, so in the most difficult years of Croatia's recent history between the fall of Vukovar and the victory in "Storm" Croatia could have had a surplus. We can't do that today. To claim it's always gonna be like that. It won't be like that. It depends on you and us.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27103	Third Amendment Mr. Representative Drago Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27104	Thank you. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So the incorrect allegation which the State Secretary said is that and that is constantly stretching is the ratio of exports or imports in dollars or euros. He said the 126 index was in dollars and 113 were in euro. But that's not true. It is true that 133 index points in 2007 and 2008 were in dollars and 127 index points in euro for nine months. However, what is much worse and worse is that 17% in tonnes was imports of more meat, that in 49% was more imports of milk and milk products and grains even 168 index points. I think the story of euros and dollars is unnecessary here, though, because that import has grown and unfortunately it is constantly growing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27105	And Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27106	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, justifying the need for the establishment of the centre, Mr. Secretary of State said: "No one in the Republic of Croatia is watching all Croatian agriculture.". And I thought it was the Ministry of Agriculture. Well, maybe we can shut down the ministry because we're going to start a center. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27107	Mr. Representative Josip Leko is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27108	Thank you very much. The Honorable State Secretary said in his statement that this was an attempt to resist foreign influence. However, the text of the reasoning says quite differently: "The entire upcoming short period of Croatia's accession and the entry into the European Union requires in the area of agriculture and "I stress - "the villages in a separate sense achieve compatibility". Mr. Secretary of State, if that's resisting foreign influence, then we understand the matter differently. Compatibility with the European village and European agriculture is a failure for Croatian agriculture because it is a agricultural agro-business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27109	I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a law establishing a Croatian center for agriculture, food and the village. First of all, we will vote on the proposal for the conclusion of the club of representatives of the HNS, which reads: “The final proposal for a law establishing the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village will be carried out on the third reading.” State Secretary. What? I don't understand. You do not accept this proposal as a conclusion. [[We don't accept it.]] Okay. We're going to the vote. So I am voting on this proposal to conclude the conclusion of the HNS Representatives Club, which suggests that this law go into third reading. Who's in favour of this proposal's conclusion? We can vote. The result? For conclusion 34, 4 abstentions, 68 v. He didn't get enough votes. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, MP Dragica Zgrebec, joint clubs of HSS and HDZ representatives. I would ask the applicant's representative to make a statement on the proposed amendments. State Secretary Josip Kraljičković. Here you go. First amendments to the Legislative Committee. Amendment to the article, amendment number one to Articles 2 and 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27111	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27112	It becomes an integral part of the law. The second amendment to Article 17
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27113	Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27114	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you. Amendment of Representative Dragica Zgrebec to Article 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27115	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27116	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 1. HSS and HDZ representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27117	Since it has already been accepted, it should not be re-accepted. It is identical to the amendment of the lady, the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27118	It was adopted through the amendment of the Legislative Committee. Amendment two.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27119	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27120	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment three.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27121	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27122	It becomes an integral part of the law. Fourth.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27123	Since Mrs. Zgrebec's amendment has already been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27124	Consumed. Okay. Amendment number five.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27125	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27126	It's part of the law. Sixth.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27127	The Legislative Committee has already been adopted, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27128	Accepted by the Legislative Committee so that we do not vote on it, because it is consummated. Thank you very much. I am voting on the draft law establishing the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village. Turn those on. We can vote. The result? I find that with 99 votes for, 6 abstentions and 2 against the proposed law, together with the amendments adopted. We're going to the next point. - Proposal for a decision to declare "National Day of Disabilities", Proposer: Committee on Labour and Social Partnership The component of the material is the opinion of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? The chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27130	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, fellow MPs. The Committee for Labour and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament proposes to the Croatian Parliament to declare itself "National Day of Disabilities" on March 21st. The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership was directed by the Croatian Association of Persons with Disabilities who also proposed March 21st on a date marking "the National Day of Disabilities". Why March 21st? Because by 1992, March 21st was marked as an international day for people with disabilities, and in memory of a mining accident that took place in Belgium in 1956 in which 262 people were killed. Labour disabilities in Croatia account for a large share of the total population of people with disabilities. According to the latest data we have since 2008, there are 243011 disabled workers, which is about 50% of the total number of people with disabilities, accounting for around 11% of the population in Croatia. By making such a decision on declaring the 21st of March the day of disability, everyone together would contribute as a society that on that day, and that we all sensitize together with the problems of disabled workers, and that on that day we all contribute together to creating a positive atmosphere to prevent injuries to work and occupational diseases, as well as to address social needs for people with disabilities. In the end, I call once again on all representatives of the Croatian Parliament to agree unanimously on the 21st of March on the day of the disabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27131	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives, Ms. Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27132	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to point out right away at the beginning that the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the decision to declare the day of 21 March on the national day of the disabled. As my colleague Kunst pointed out on behalf of the promoter, and here you have colleagues already had the opportunity to hear in the last few months that there are 11% of people with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia, and that almost 50% of them are people with disabilities, or disabled workers. Unfortunately, the number is increasing daily, since work unfortunately causes people to suffer daily, and their health is usually end up with disability. Dan, a national day of disability would allow this category of people with disabilities to better sensitize the entire community on that day, so to introduce them to their problems on that day and to teach them how they think their problems should be solved. I am particularly pleased that we are discussing people with disabilities in this House because we are sensitizing the public in this way, that is, developing the consciousness of all people in the Republic of Croatia, thereby respecting the provisions of the Convention, the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which regulates the area of awareness development. I believe that we will all, therefore, unanimously support this decision, because this is how we also contribute to the quality of life of people with disabilities and to the sensitization of the entire Croatian public for their problems. I would like to point out once again that the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27133	Thank you. SDP club, Ms. Representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27134	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear colleagues. So, to us, the public would already be very, very sensitized. However, it seems to me that there is a problem with implementation. But at first, I would like to stress that the SDP club will support the proposal for a decision to declare the national day of employment on 21 March. We are familiar with the fact that 11% of the population in Croatia are persons with disabilities, and 50% of them are disabled workers. As a society and as individuals, we should have imagined ourselves long ago over that number. We wonder if, in the light of this proposal, it is enough just to say that marking a national day for people with disabilities will contribute to the sensitisation of the entire public, the problem facing disabled workers. We think if this day is to be declared for the sake of remembering some tragedies or injustices of the system, and doing nothing in prevention or recovery of damage that day will be lost in the mass of the days that we mark something. Otherwise, December 21st marks the Day of Down syndrome, Croatian Migrena Day, World Puppet Day, World Forest Protection Day, International Day against racism, Bach's birthday and my nameday. A little joke! But let's get serious because it's a very, very serious issue. Why 243011 people who have become disabled working with the trend of growth. We are all familiar with the fact that in the 1990s criminal conversion and privatisation of the robbed factory, sold or bought for kuna, and a large number of employees were sent into invalid retirement. Maestrally, we made a social category out of working people. Now I'm going to touch a little bit like every normal Croatian and Croat of Slovenia. Why are workers in Slovenian companies in Slovenia working under full protective equipment, and employees of the same Slovenian companies in Croatia must have absolutely nothing on them from a protective suit. Who's to blame, us or the Slovenes? Where are our labour inspections? What about “The Salonite ” workers? In a civilized world, asbestos is banned, a technological material that causes lung cancer and a series of other respiratory problems. A small place once called “little Venice” is now a symbol of poison, disease, and death because of its beauty. And splendor disease is actually a name for subjugation, incurable and often lethal asbestos disease. In the last ten years, at least 400 people have been sick in Vranjica, tens of whom have died. How to prevent the resulting disability by acting preventively? Labour disabilities are a vulnerable group, they depend on entire families, and we ourselves are aware that incomes or pensions are shamefully small and that they collapse to the very bottom of human dignity. What about the process of rehabilitation that would affirm staying on the labour market and depart from the possibilities of remaining functions for which persons are qualified which should be socially accepted strategy, not just all awareness of the payment of fees. In addition to decomposed dignity, we can also talk about economic discrimination here because people who do not receive equal pay for equal work or who are not given equal terms in work. On the whole labour market, we are obliged to establish measures to prevent the overall phenomenon of discrimination, as well as this economic aspect which is invisible at first sight. I don't know how much you know that pension insurance has been missing since 1999 the right to employment which was achieved by disabled workers with remaining work capacity until the end of 1998, which was achieved by continuing to work with the same employer or receiving pension benefits for which the time and period of insurance is calculated. At the same time, there has been a significant change in the definition of disability according to which the former loss of employment corresponds to the current professional inability to work. This has also led to the narrowing of the number of persons in practice who could qualify for work, or other occupations. According to the work definition of disability which was significantly broader, it was easier to become disabled, or to determine disability. This opened and extended the scope of the remaining work capacity, and thus the wider possibilities for rehabilitation or employment at another job. Disfellowshipping disabled workers from a circle of people with disabilities in a way that provides them with disability pensions has led to the illogical use of the right to disability pension due to their professional inability to work. In contrast to unemployed healthy persons who unwarrantedly refuse job offer and thereby lose the right to cash compensation during unemployment, disabled workers who are offered an appropriate job under their remaining ability shall not lose their right to a fixed amount of disability pension due to their professional inability to work. If an appropriate professional rehabilitation programme is developed, work with disabilities is often placed in a less paid job. Persons with disabilities face a number of problems because the onset of disability is no longer able to live, work, and perform the same way as before the injury, or disease. In solving these problems, a significant role is precisely professional rehabilitation. The basic problem facing modern society is how do people with disabilities existentially ensure, educate, rehabilitate, hire and integrate into society? In relation to the law of the Republic of Croatia which has established the rights of disabled workers in the field of professional rehabilitation, it can be said that there is a major disproportionateity between standards, envisaged legal rules and practices that are being implemented. The reasons for this disproportionate economic nature are economic. The high probability of inability to work after professional rehabilitation and the loss of financial security prevents disabled work from the very process of professional rehabilitation and forces them to choose a easier and safer path. Unfortunately, it is going into disability pension, which provides them with certain financial security in some ways, but it makes them passive members of society who could use their potential to benefit from their full human achievement. In order to calm our clean conscience, we often organize humanitarian parties in which their families are involved, especially their children. Why do humanitarian parties instead of well-organized social justice and enforceable laws? So, the day is marking something to be warned about, but it's 243,000 human lives plus members of their families living 365 days a year. Every day, we need to warn of this by protecting their dignity, and on March 21, we need to determine it as a day in which we will sum up everything we have done during the year. We must stop the political modeling of fate by social, health or whatever the endangered population is that day alone. A few hours, media like some news, dragged news into the paper with a picture of the same political models. Once again, I stress, the SDP club supports the proposal for a decision to declare the National Day of Persons with Disabilities on 21 March, but also asks the promoter to launch all available mechanisms, that the number of 243 000 and 11 people does not increase, and that the quality of life of already existing disabled workers should be raised to a level worthy of every man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27135	Thank you very much. HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27136	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I want to start by saying that most members of the HNS Club will support this proposal. However, my colleague Kunst and his colleagues from the Labour Committee, there are those of us who will refrain, and that is why I was tasked in front of the club to explain it. In fact, colleagues in front of the SDP club have now given part of the argument. We already have an international day. What are we doing on December 3rd? How much we use it to hold here two basic messages, to contribute to the sensitization of the entire public to the problems faced by disabled workers and others, to create a positive climate to prevent injuries to work and occupational diseases. It doesn't please me. As a doctor, I can't accept that. 243,000 people. It's a scary number, a scary number, and it's not enough to sensitize the public, it's not enough to create a positive climate. It is necessary, therefore, not to introduce a national day, but to introduce a national strategy or a national action plan for protection, better protection of workers at work. It is necessary to see clearly who does not carry out protection and in which companies. Who doesn't educate his employees, so there's a work injury. These are things that we need to analyze, see, and this number has to fall rapidly and never be maintained on this terriblely high number. We should also try to preserve the physical health and mental health of our workers. We see how the recent proposal for the Law on Preventing Labour Abuse passed. Unfortunately, and protective measures and many things that should be better and better spent in our companies are not monitored. I'd like to get inspection, analysis, actual situation on the ground, and that's why we have 240 thousand people with disabilities. So you will get support from most of us, but some of us will refrain for reasons because we believe that this is not the right direction to work, but rather a concrete attempt to reduce the number of influences on, affecting employers and those who can and should reduce the number of such people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27137	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27138	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Most of the injuries and deaths occur in the processing industry and in the construction industry. It's 78.1% of men, women 21.9%. Unfortunately, as has already been said many times in today's debate, we well know that disabled workers make a very large share of the total population of people with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia, and this proposal is also an expression of genuine concern for their status in our society. The number of 243 thousand and 11 is mentioned and is mentioned to be 50% of all people with disabilities. Why this day is proposed for a national day of disability. In fact, the Croatian Association of Persons with Disabilities marks that day on the day of the disabled, and therefore suggests that March 21st is the national day of the disabled. I think, however, that on that day, regardless of these remarks on the care for people with disabilities will contribute to the numerous positives that are highlighted here, which is, firstly, to sensitize society for these problems, education under two, and one in creating a climate to prevent injuries to work and occupational diseases. Therefore, I support the proposal to declare March 21st as a national day of disability.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27139	Thank you. Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27140	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. As we have already heard in the Republic of Croatia, 243,000 people with disabilities have been registered, but we must be aware of the fact that there has been a healthy population injury, and that is why we must not put these people outside the labour system, and in the context of their ability to involve them in the world of work. According to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation of Employment of Persons with Disabilities of Rights, which can be achieved after the procedure and the establishment of disability are also professional rehabilitation, the right to employment under certain general conditions of the so-called General Assembly. open labour market, employment under special conditions in protection workshops, and this includes self-employment, i.e. the opening of its own crafts, its own company, or the carrying out of independent activities in the family economy. Therefore, we see that the legal regulatory option is visible, and it is better to employ disabled workers in adequate places because it also gives us a satisfied individual, and therefore a satisfied society. In this way we also provide a motto under which the United Nations marks the international day of persons with disabilities, as well as the anniversary of the general declaration of human rights, which is dignity and justice for all. I welcome March 21st as a celebration of the National Day of Disabilities, but let's not stand on it just symbolically. Let us bear in mind the causes of disability, and the groups of our fellow citizens and think about prevention, let us consider better protection at work. Therefore, dear colleagues, I support the proposal, but I stress that it is irresponsible to propose this day, not to solve the problem of the mentioned salon that leads to disability, i.e. what Doric was talking about mental health that could also lead to disability, and we know what happened to the Mobbing Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27141	Thank you. And Mrs. Representative Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27142	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I personally have no objection to making a national day of disability on 21 March, although I am not particularly sure that declaring that day and its appropriate marking will make any significant difference in the status of disabled workers, or in preventing injuries at work. There is also a kind of fashion here in the Croatian Parliament for the past few years that when not wanting or knowing or for what reasons we do not want to do something more concrete, or most do not want to do something more concrete for a population, then we declare a national day. I think we have a national day almost every week. And in that sense, I want to say that, colleagues and colleagues, except for us in this hall and our colleagues and fellow MPs who are not in the hall today, but no one else has the power to change things. And our power is more important than self-expressive support to this or that group of citizens, in this case disabled workers. And in that sense, I only want to say two things that are directly in our jurisdiction, which we have either done wrong or we have failed to do at all. During 2007, we passed the Law on the Croatian Institute for the Protection of Workers' Health at Work. The law was prepared during 2006 according to the specialists themselves, in fact without any knowledge of the profession, and somewhere in the new office was operated in 1.1.2008. People who have long-standing specialists in labor medicine say that this law has had inconspicuous negative consequences for workers who were supposed to get even better health care, since it is the will of the majority in the law, so to speak, the insecure provision that specialists of medical work take over from family doctors, i.e. from primary health care and complete care and treatment of injuries to work, leading to many and sick and injured workers wandering from one hospital to another, as another set of forms and administrative obstacles and new forms and such too many administrative systems. The activity of a specialist in medicine work that was primarily intended to periodically review workers in places with special working conditions, participate in work protection committees and in risk assessment, contact working organisations due to possible health problems of workers, review of workplace analysis and education, etc. something that their primary job as a specialist in medicine work has actually turned into a primary health care job. We did not actually achieve what we now want to declare our support. In a way, to prevent and educate people. That's not what we're gonna do to bring the declaration. Good on March 21st will be the Day of Disabilities. We can do that by changing the law. That's our job. Another thing that's been hurting me for years is the inequality of people with disabilities in terms of how they acquire disability. In my opinion, a person without a hand or a person without a leg or a person without a hand and without a leg regardless of how this disability is acquired. The person in the wheelchair is the person in the wheelchair. An eyeless person is an eyeless person. And today, in this area, we actually have one incredible discrimination against all these civilian people. Whether they're disabled because of a work injury or because of some other circumstances. And colleagues and colleagues, no one but us in this room can change that. And that injustice towards civilian people with disabilities and disabilities will not change if we declare the Day of Protection of Persons with Disabilities. That can be changed by other regulations. So here I am, please, and our Committee on Labour, which appears to propose this initiative that I repeat it is good and can help, so that it does not stop. Because if the Labour Committee stands only to give the initiative to mark and support something declared, and our work is more important than the declarations themselves, then I think it will show that as members and members of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, they didn't really mean it, and that in some way this proposal is hypocritical. And I hope that wasn't the applicant's intensity this day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27143	Thank you. Final review representative of the motion president of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27144	Thank you very much. I can only express the satisfaction that from the debate of all MPs it is evident that, in fact, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership has done well and, normally, that there is also the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, as well as the feeling of supporting the Croatian Community's proposal to the Association of Persons with Disabilities, that March 21st is declared the Day of Disabilities. Well, that's exactly the goal of talking a little bit more that day, a little bit better about disability issues. I don't think it's the only day I have to, I'm sure I agree with everyone that all mechanisms should be involved, otherwise all institutions should be involved in order to prevent an increase in disability. It means we have as little disability as possible. It's a job for all of us together. But it is certainly not any fashion of declaring the Day of Disabilities, but it is exactly an indication of how much hearing is being heard, how much it is one human thing to respect the proposal of the Croatian community of disabled workers, to declare March 21st on the Day of Disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27145	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a decision to declare the National Day of Persons with Disabilities. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, I am voting on a proposal for a decision to declare the National Day of Persons with Disabilities. Let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 106 for, 2 abstentions made a decision to declare the National Day of Persons with Disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27148	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. So, before you there's a proposal for a law on noise protection. In 2003, under the 2002 Directive, a Noise Protection Act was adopted, which is partly in line with the European Union directives, and as new recommendations were issued by the European Commission on changes to the methods of the noise budget, which is also from 1. This year, the new Law on Sanitary Inspection, which regulates areas and measures to protect from noise, is in force. There is a new proposal before you which therefore sets out measures to avoid and prevent and reduce adverse effects on health caused by noise in the environment. Compared to the current law of novelty in this law, bonds are made of strategic maps of noise and action plans other than the City of Zagreb and the county and towns and municipalities with more than 100,000 inhabitants, as well as owners, or concessionaries of industrial areas, main roads, main railway lines and main airports. The paper is also that it is mandatory to bring strategic maps of noise and action plans into line with changes in space every 5 years from the date of manufacture, or from the date of approval. The paper is that maps of strategic, strategic maps of noise and action plans must be made available to the public, and developed in cooperation with the competent authorities of neighbouring countries and in the border section. The paper is also that in the draft law, compliance with the relevant recommendations of the European Union on accounting methods for noise calculation in industrial areas. The new law obligates the delivery of data to the Ministry of Health and Social Care used to produce strategic maps of noise and action plans, and there is also a need to obtain approval and keep records of these data. In particular, it is contained in the proposal for a law on the delivery to the European Commission of information on the use of strategic noise maps and the summary of action plans, as well as the implementation of noise protection measures in the process of issuing solutions to united environmental conditions. The paper in that legislative proposal is... jurisdiction in the procedure of determining the implementation of the measures against noise protection and the public administration's offices in the counties and the City Health Office in the Ministry of Health, which is a alignment with the new Law on Sanitary Control already mentioned. By adopting this proposal for a law on noise protection, it would be fully in line with Directive 49 of 2002 as well as with the recommendations of the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27149	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27150	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues who are still here. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament and the Committee on Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law on Noise Protection at a joint session held on 12 February 2009, with the final draft law, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 29 January 2009, with a proposal to comply with Article 161. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 13(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as interested working bodies. In its opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the proposed law complies with the European Union rules on the protection of human health and the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of noise. The purpose of this law is to comply with the objectives of Directive 2002/49 EC, which regulates activities to prevent or reduce the adverse action of noise, and in particular the harmonisation achieved in relation to... noise and action plans. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Taking into account the new structure of the sanitary inspection and the provisions of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction of the "National Journal" No. 76/07, Law on the Protection of the Environment "National Journal" No. 110/07. and Regulation laying down the procedure for the establishment of uniform conditions for environmental protection of the "National Journal" No. 114/08. The proposed representative further explained the paper of the proposed law in relation to the applicable law. The discussion on the Committee supports the adoption of this law laying down measures to avoid, prevent or reduce adverse effects on human health caused by noise in the environment, including noise disturbances. In accordance with Article 6(2), a number of different views on the eligibility of the defined period of time from 15 June to 15 September in which the use of electrical acoustic devices on the open air in facilities registered for the purpose of carrying out the catering activity would be permitted for up to 24 hours. It has been said that tourism is one of the strategic branches of the economy and the development of the Republic of Croatia and that legislation should encourage it but that restrictions are put in place in this way that can slow down its development. In this respect, it is proposed that units of local self-government be left with the possibility of regulating the period and period of the day during which the use of these devices is allowed, given the better knowledge of local needs, customs and possibilities. On the other hand, there is a question about such a proposal since the domestic population of tourist resorts does not have the potential to influence the volume of sounds being reproduced in the hospitality facilities of an open and closed type. The proposed legal provision was therefore justified and pointed out that late night entertainment should be directed to the periphery outside the core of tourist resorts. In view of the role played by the Croatian accreditation agency as a key quality factor that monitors the skills and competence of laboratories and professional organisations carrying out the measurements and supervision in the debate, the accreditation of legal persons under Article 11 of the "HRN N ISO/IEC 17025" standard is of importance. It also proposed a transitional period of two years from the date of entry into force of this law for the purpose of obtaining that accreditation. In that respect, the committees proposed an amendment. A positive assessment of the introduction of the obligation to draw up strategic maps of noise and action plans for owners or concessionaries of industrial areas, main roads, main railways and main airports. However, it was noted that the definition of the main airport in Article 2 of point 20 of the proposed law differs from the definition of that concept in Article 3. Rules on how to make and content of the maps of noise and action plans of the "National Journal" No. 5/07. which remains in force until the date of entry into force of the Regulation to be adopted by the basis of this Act. It is pointed out that the provision of Article 22 of the proposed law should be completed in a way that adds to the text showing that, until the new regulations enter into force, the rules in force in the part in which they are not contrary to the provisions of this law apply. In that article, the Committees proposed an amendment. The debate also expressed the importance of the airport categorisation, since airports create not only noise as a type of sound pollution but also frequencies that negatively affect the sustainability of buildings and can cause certain material damage. In this respect, the importance of defining the landing corridor of the aircraft to the airport is highlighted. During the debate, further clarification was requested from the applicant regarding the possibility of legal regulation of irritant noise. Illustrations work, air conditioning and ventilation. After the discussion, the committees unanimously proposed to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on the Protection of Noise, together with the following amendments, of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction with 12 votes. I wouldn't quote the amendments because we're simply handing them over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27151	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Tourism, Mr. Representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27152	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At its 12th meeting on 11 February, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law on Noise Protection with the Final Proposal for a Law to be sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 29 January 2009, with a proposal to comply with Article 161 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. The tourism committee discussed the final draft law in question pursuant to Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body. The opening statement on the need for the adoption of the Law on the Protection of Noise by reason of certain articles was submitted by Mr Nenad Lamer, Director at the Ministry of Health and Social Care. In the course of the discussion, the need for the adoption of the Noise Protection Act in relation to its alignment with the legal property of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe, the members of the Committee expressed their dissatisfaction with Article 6(2) of the Law. The debate stresses that in the Republic of Croatia where tourism is one of the strategic branches is not a good limit as set out in Article 6(2). The question of who will define what is open space and what is an open populated city space is also raised. The members of the committee expressed their position that the definition should be left to the units of local self-government. On the basis of the debate held, the Committee on Tourism unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Noise Protection with the following amendment and this amendment to Article 6(2). I'll quote it. “In the period from 15 June to 15 September, the use of electro-acoustic and acoustic devices at open-air facilities registered to carry out catering activities in the time specified by the local self-government units is authorised and the words ‘up to 24 hours’ are deleted in paragraph 3. In the light of the provisions of Article 6(2), it is determined that the maximum time of use of electrical acoustic devices in the open space should be up to 24 hours. This provision would have a significant impact on the diversity and offer of Croatian tourism, creating restrictions that would not be in favour of raising the quality of the tourist product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27153	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Health and Social Care, the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27154	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As a parent committee, the Committee on Health and Social Care discussed the draft law in accordance with Article 76a. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In its opening statement, the applicant's representative explained the basic objectives of this law and the scope of its application. The law lays down measures to avoid, prevent and reduce the adverse effects caused by noise in the environment. The discussion on the Committee found that the provisions of the law are to implement further harmonisations of this area with the European Union and its directives and recommendations governing the prevention activity, i.e. reducing the adverse effects of noise on human health. Application of the intended noise protection measures. It is pointed out, it will prevent the production of excessive noise emissions, or reduce existing noise to the permitted levels. As a significant measure, board members stressed the obligation to draw up strategic noise maps and action plans for cities with more than 10,000 inhabitants. This will determine and assess the degree of exposure of the population to noise from different sources. The obligation to draw up strategic noise maps also applies to concessions of industrial areas, main roads, main railways and main airports. Action plans based on strategic map data should, in the opinion of the Committee members, contain measures to prevent excessive noise emissions and reduce it to the permitted level. After the discussion, board members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the Law on Noise Protection in Text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27155	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27156	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law on protection against noise with the Final Bill, which may need to say a few words at the outset why we are actually so tormented to protect ourselves from noise. The noise is defined as an unwanted sound that in many ways threatens human health, not only human hearing, but all human health. Thus, noise does not only cause local damage to the hearing aid, but also general symptoms that can be very severe. The noise also affects hormone secretion, noise affects heart function disorders, narrowing peripheral blood vessels and a whole series of other changes in the body. And the most severe effects of noise actually occur on the brain, on the central nervous system where noise leads to small blood vessels damage. Such damage to the microcirculation of the central nervous system results in severe behavioural disorders, sleep disturbances, the creation of a sense of fear, all the way to severe long-term apathy. Therefore, noise is an environment polluter that is very harmful to human health. As a result, instruments, measuring instruments for noise measurement, have been measured. As a result, the law lays down authorised organisations and legal persons to measure that noise and the rules are also adopted on the basis of noise measurements. What does it mean to measure the noise? That means measuring her intensity in decibels. Now there's about 40 decibels in this room. It's the noise of normal working discipline. When we have a little fight it's 50 decibels, and when the budget debate goes up to 60 decibels. So the working environment can be protected from noise above 70 decibels. It is tolerated in the working environment. The unbearable noise is over 80 decibels, and 120 decibel noise is the limit of pain in the ear. So it causes pain and it's a limit that's still unsustainable. As a result, as early as 1990, we passed the first Law on Noise Protection and several regulations that imposed maximum noises in different environments from housing to work, ways to measure, regulate, and punish those who overstepped it. 2003. The government passed a new Law of Noise which it brought into line with the 2002 European Union Directive, but also adopted several other sublegal acts that precisely edited this area. However, after the entry into force of that law in 2003, the European Commission has adopted new recommendations on guidelines for modified methods of noise budgets and particularly noise from industrial sources, further air transport, road transport, rail transport and all of this should be incorporated into the new law and incorporated into the new law that is ahead of us. The highest quality step of this law is that it determines and obliges that in cities above 100,000 inhabitants there must be noise maps, that these data must be made publicly available and that action plans must be made with these maps to prevent excessive noise in the work environment and in any other environment. What this law does not pass, which is not related to these international contracts signed by Croatia, these are daily activities in the household that we produce in our own apartment and noise inside the vehicle. What brings quality this law, these are new definitions of noise harmful to health and so on. noise disturbances. So the defined noise is harmful to health, that is, any sound that exceeds the prescribed maximum doses in decibels and which can be accurately measured. And noise disturbances have been identified by measuring noise levels, therefore by an objective method. The so-called so-called "Second" has also been introduced. Noise indicators for the day, so these are the upper levels of noise pollution during the day, then during the evening and from 23 hours to 7 a.m. for the night period. They would highlight Article 6 here, which prohibits all activities that cause damage to human health by creating excessive noise, Article 17, which sets out the obligation to make strategic maps. These maps are defined in the law which must be established, areas of noise intensity must be defined, overruns of permitted levels, and especially for each part of the settlement there must be a number of noises in particularly sensitive sites such as hospitals, schools and other institutions. Action plans are also adopted, and according to the Regulation adopted by the Ministry of Health, with the consent of the Minister of Environmental Protection, details of the action plans are adopted. Administrative supervision is determined, it is the Ministry of Health, inspection is determined, it is the sanitary inspection of the Ministry of Health, and the law determines several very important regulations, I will mention the most important. This is the Regulation on the highest permissible noise levels, that is the key rule, the Regulation on the content of noise maps and action plans, that is, the new area regulated by this law, the Regulation on noise protection in the issue of building permits, the Rules on expert examination for persons performing professional tasks in the measurement of noise and so on. In any case, this law is a modern law in line with all European norms, as we see in the attachment submitted by the competent ministry, and therefore the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community proposes to adopt such a law which will mean a major improvement in the protection of human health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27157	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27158	There's no noise now. Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. So very briefly, this is a law that has been applied relatively successfully since 2003 and the need to now pass, in fact the amended law in the form of a new law has already been explained before, therefore because of the need to comply with European legislation. I would therefore be here because we think we should support this law, but I am sorry again, so I would ask the President of the Parliament again if, of course, you could compose it in this way in the work of legislation, so also the work of this Parliament, if, for example, this law were to go to first reading, and not have to go to another one, then it would certainly be better, because now there are possible short-terms between those who have made certain constitutional proposals with a representative of the promoter and a government who also does not arrive because of the different obligations to do so, so if possible, predict the situation that this law goes on two occasions to bring it to the second session. And so the other laws go into two readings, and then the total legislative activity comes down to the same number of laws that were passed because time was spent for the first and second reading, I guess roughly the same as being passed, so not only by emergency procedure, but by two readings. That's what I suggest that, no, I suggest you think about it. But here is, in principle, one question that I asked on the Committee of Law and was your colleague, Mr. Secretary of State on that committee, and that is why the Ministry of Health is a ministry that is a resolute ministry, so to prepare regulations from this activity to protect against noise and the application of regulations? Why isn't it the Ministry of Environmental Protection? Why is that a question? It's a question now that you won't be able to tell me, we won't be able to do it all together in this short time, but it's a question about the future. It is my responsibility that the European Union does not care whether the cat is black or white, it is important to hunt mice. But it's illogical that the Ministry of Health with the team that it actually has, these are in this case, first of all, sanitary inspectors, if it's about administrative inspection surveillance, that job they do when they can actually do it, so here, as far as I can tell by the basic concept, it could be more done by traffic engineers. Why? Even, and that's the same observation, all for the future, let's say not to mention the notion of noise, but to mention the notion of the noise of the environment. Be careful, therefore, this is the Law on Noise Protection, but there is no notion of noise, but says the first term is the noise of the environment and says, it is unwanted or by human health and the environment a harmful sound in the outer space caused by human activity, including noise broadcast by means of means of transport, road transport, rail transport, air traffic, maritime and river transport, and so on, so the emphasis is mainly on traffic. So I'm just talking about the need to think about it because in the European Union, different countries have different situations, but mostly as far as I'm concerned, it's still about this activity of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. So it's a principle suggestion. As for concrete remarks and suggestions, let me say that there are no terms in Article 2 here, let's say what is strictly military areas? Why does it matter? Because the argument at the outset says that this law does not apply to strictly certain military areas. If not applicable, then it should be known which are strictly designated military areas. Maybe it's something else regulated. I hope it is, because if it isn't, then it's a hole in the law. Then, some concepts are mentioned in the dictionary, but they are not mentioned in the law itself in the provisions of the law. Maybe it's because it's necessary for sublaws. That's what I'd like to ask the motionary's representative to say if that's the case. Let's just say that's the concept of quiet facades. She's not being discussed anywhere through the provisions of the law. And some concepts are introduced as new, a bit unusual, let's say that's the concept of the main road. We've known the concept and it's been a public road for many years, it's a state, county and local road, and now the main road is suddenly mentioned, and that's what that road, a public road with more than two million car passes per year, says. I allow this term to be entered to be used in this part, but it's a little bit, a little bit of stuff... Because we've already learned the concept of the road, public roads in another way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now another term is added here, that's the main road. I don't know if we need that. Maybe we could have expressed it a little differently. As for the professional activities carried out through professional organisations for the purposes of this activity, the activities of noise protection, I note that there is more and more in this law, not only in this law, but not in all, that, by decision of the Minister, the decision of the Minister empowers a professional organisation, a legal person who has the conditions needed to carry out a particular job. Look, in some other laws, this was settled well before 2004, in the Road Safety Act. Public tender provides public authorities with jobs. Not based on the fact that the minister's discretion determines who will carry out these professional activities as public affairs. Although I am responsible, but I can't believe it, I guess once again the secretary of state will confirm it, I'd like to hear it from him if it's really true that all legal persons who have the conditions to do that job get that job. If that's the case, then that norm can stand. However, this paragraph 2 of the article on a professional organisation, i.e. professional affairs, states that the Regulation will regulate the conditions which must... That job. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It can be dealt with by law, and that would be better done by law. It's the same for us, our practice in one law like this, and in another law it's the same. I... in order to balance legislative practice and that professional organisations must have conditions that can be written very nicely in the law and that it is a legal provision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And another concrete remark. I've expressed it through two amendments, which is. Look, keep in article 17. One of the situations that is described in the following way. The Sanitary Inspector comes to an example of a catering facility that has stronger produced noise and forbids him from doing these jobs at that time, that activity. And it says there it's done with a oral solution. And that's allowed, because those situations can't write a solution right now, maybe it's not exactly computer written that he doesn't need a typewriter. So, the oral solution is yes. But then it reads, in this article 17, that the solution of the sanitary inspector, therefore this oral solution, can be filed, i.e. an administrative dispute can be initiated. Now I ask you how someone who's damaged, who thinks it's damaged to file a complaint or a administrative dispute? Not at all. Because we're not exactly Finland. You know, even in Finland, you wouldn't believe too much in the oral solution. And that's why I suggest... , so a oral solution is made, and on which the minutes are drawn up, point. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? Because then the dissatisfied party can and that record doesn't have to be drawn up at that time. He may be put together in two days, but he must follow that oral solution. It must be a confirmation of that oral solution, because if it is to be confirmed then legal protection will be ensured. In accordance with that, I have submitted another amendment concerning this Article 17, which is in Article 18. It says there will be a solution, not written or orally, but it means that I think it's written, but it says three, four things, but it doesn't say there for article 17 that it applies precisely to this orally. So I'm... He knows exactly what an oral solution is made for, what a written solution is made for. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So please seriously consider these two amendments because they are based and reasoned. And finally, as well as on the Legislative Committee, there was a good debate and remarks that Mr. Tomljanovic, out of his modesty, did not want to read here, which are very substantial, which I think was accepted by the proposing representative. Among other things, I want to point out this here, since it was my remark on Article 25, so where it says that the procedures begin under this existing law will end under the new law. He can't. It is known why it is not possible and it has already passed in the case of the Law on Private Detectives as one principle that is common, so I ask that a very serious consideration be given to the observations of the Committee on Legislatives and that the Government resolves it as through its amendment, because I believe you will do so, which is why I have not submitted the amendment to it. So, in the end, we propose that the Government, by respecting the remarks very substantively, I don't know these other committees, I haven't been able to read it, but I think they have their own weight, but certainly the Committee of Legislatives to translate into amendments and, of course, these amendments that I have submitted to accept. In that sense, we will, of course, accept this, hopefully, good law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27159	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27160	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As is known, the current Noise Protection Act was adopted in January 2003. We will support this proposal, but we also have some dilemmas, of course suggestions and remarks. So what are the main changes that are now proposed in relation to this existing 2003 law? Under current law, all units of local self-government in Croatia, so all municipalities and cities, then the City of Zagreb and all counties were obliged to make noise maps within 3 years as a demonstration and a noise mission, and the number of people exposed to noise levels, and within 5 years of action plans, i.e. a description of the measures to reduce noise to the permitted levels. This has transferred another obligation to the back of the local self-government, of course, and most often without the insurance funds from the state budget for these purposes. The remarks were that many, especially financially weak municipalities, and the spatially large ones will not be able to provide the means to make cards of noise, but also that there are not enough experts in Croatia to make noise cards to honour this legal obligation. Of course, one and the other reasons led to the fact that six years after the law was passed, only seven towns of Varazdin, Sisak, Mali Losinj, Bjelovar, Pula, Osijek and Kutina, and the Municipality of Viskovo made a map of noise. I'm talking about publicly available data on the website of the Environmental Protection Agency. I don't know, I can't say if they're completely up-to-date or not. I guess not, though, that not only did 8 units of local self-government bring noise maps. There is no systematic monitoring of noise in the environment, as well as the evaluation of the impact of noise on people's health in Croatia. There is no legal obligation for central collection and evaluation of data on measured noise levels, so systematicised data on this is not available at this time, and as we can see, we would have no one to systematise from. The new bill now reduces the general obligation for all local communities in Croatia only to cities with more than 100,000 inhabitants who will have an obligation to make strategic cards of noise within two years and action plans within four years of the adoption of the law. The news is that these strategic maps of noise and action plans will have to be made available to the public in accordance with the rules governing information and participation in issues, but be careful to protect the environment. That's what the law says, not health protection, although the law proposes and is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health. A little weird. Although the dilemma of whether the Ministry of Health is the right address for this issue is open anyway. The existing law says that it is forbidden to carry out work, activity and other activities in a way that interferes with the noise and peace and rest of people in indoor or open residences. In this draft law, peace and rest make people disappear from the law, so it is forbidden to carry out works, activities and other activities that cause noise harmful to human health in the living areas. So it turns out only those noises that make you crazy or get deaf. Who asks for peace and rest, people. The novelty in this proposal of the law is that during the period from 15 June to 15 September, the use of open-air electroacoustic devices in facilities registered for hosting activity is allowed for up to 24.00 hours but not until 24.00 hours of noise, of course, must not exceed the maximum permissible level of noise, in accordance with the rules to be adopted, as well as the other necessary rules, within 6 months. We believe that the law should not determine only the summer 3 months for the permitted use of electroacoustic devices outdoors, because the tourist season in a tourist country as Croatia lasts all year. It is not just summer and sea tourism in Croatia. And when we limit music to 24.00 hours, we think it shouldn't be exclusive, and that the decision on the border nighttime music should be left to the local community. The limit should certainly be for open spaces in densely populated areas, but not for open spaces outside the settlement. There must be an opportunity to satisfy the tourist interest for music in the open space outside the settlement to deeper into the night but to protect peace, silence and the desire to rest tourists and the domicillal population in the settlements after midnight. What is likely to attract public attention and debate is to break the provisions of the existing law regarding the Church. That in populated places, sound advertising was allowed with bells or electroacoustic devices only from 7.00 to 1900 hours. So, under the existing law, noise is considered to be tolerated only by the end of the day, but not at night or at night. This provision now disappears from the Noise Protection Act which will say that the bell bell or electroacoustic devices from the Church no longer sees noise, so neither by day nor by night. The churches will be able to ring from 0 to 24:00 hours if they want to, and apparently wants to, because such a requirement is to completely lift any ban on the bells of the church, the Church sent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia as early as July last year. The practice that church bells break the Law on the Protection of Noise by ringing before the allowed 7 and after 19.00 hours is already present in Croatia, so nothing important will change for those citizens who live near church facilities and who are often noised bells, bells late in the night and early in the morning, excessive noise and a source of stress that they cannot get used to. Now the Church will have no limitations in the bell, neither in the volume of the bell, nor in the time of day or night, nor in the interval, or, for example, in the knocks in the bell tower every half hour. Many citizens in Croatia who are bothered by the frequent, noisy bells and clocks in the bell tower, and the inappropriate early morning or late evening terms for this, will certainly not clap this amendment to the law. Especially if he's gonna have to listen to it at night. I believe that advertising with bells or electroacoustic devices should not, of course, be prohibited but must be arranged by force, by terms, and by intervals. Besides, there's automatics everywhere, and no one's doing it by hand with a shriek anymore. The key problem is the number of decibels at the sound source. Decibels are a provision whether something that is generally pleasant, such as music or bell bell turns into noise with negative consequences. That is why it is also somewhat ironic that the interpretation that is now simply abolishing the illogicality of putting church bells in the rank of noise in 2003. It's not a problem with the sound of church bells, it's basically dying, it points to tradition and way of life. But it stops being if the sound is too loud, too common, or at an inappropriate time. For according to that logic and the attitude of the church, and from where do you know that the church bells are noise, and for every song, we could say the gig before, so where do you get the music from? Of course the music isn't noise, of course the church bell noises. But music and church bells are noises if it's a sound exaggeration that disrupts peace, and it can endanger health. After all, let the profession do its job, let her say when both music and church bell from comfort go into discomfort and health risk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27161	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27162	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's my debate, unfortunately, I have to start with a statement from a fellow SDP a few days ago, that this is an irrelevant law which clearly speaks of their sensitivity and they are at all as a party to the citizens, especially when it comes to care for the health of Croatian citizens, and it is obvious that they only care about those laws that need to be served for daily political purposes. We in the Croatian Democratic Community believe that this proposal for a Law on Noise Protection is primarily aimed at protecting human health and human beings. And that's the main reason why we're all going to support this law absolutely without thinking about it. And we believe that human health comes first, as is the preservation of the entire environment and the environment in which man lives. Regardless of what we as humans are, in fact, those who produce all kinds of noise, as well as those that are dangerous and harmful as sounds of human health, primarily caused by all kinds of traffic, installations, and all sounds that exceed the allowed levels of decibel. We will also clearly support this law for the reason that it is now fully and definitely in line with all the gains of the European Union but also fulfils all obligations under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Otherwise, as already noted in the Croatian Parliament in 2003, the Law on the Protection of Noise was adopted, and then it was clearly only in line with the provisions of the European Directive 2002/49 on the protection of noise, and now it is clearly necessary to complete it, and so it is done in all these examples, which can be clearly seen with the basic objective, because in fact this law sets out measures to prevent or reduce the level of noise that is dangerous to human health in a way that will take out maps of noise from which the same exposure will be seen and also, on the same basis, also to draw up action plans which are primarily under the obligation of cities that have more than 100 thousand inhabitants but also concessions of industrial areas, main roads, railways, airports, etc. At least the number of those who measure is how many flights it is, how many flights it is, how many trips it is, and how many trips it is, etc. Attending here. Clearly, other cities need to bring in the same plans, and they are necessary to preserve human health and the environment. This is especially so when it comes to noise and what citizens are exposed to most of the relationships on built areas, in areas such as parks in cities, similar areas of school, etc. where human health and the environment are the most exposed to all these sound processes that are dangerous to human health especially to his mental health. Here we could hear earlier and what all the provisions of this law do not apply to the noise that arises, so so did fellow Vincelj very inspiredly try to present it when it comes to bells and bells. I mean, I won't do much about it, I'd just like to warn you that the numerous sacral objects of our cathedral in many of our cities in Dalmatia but also in the interior have bells a few hundred years old and that's what belongs to a clear and cultural heritage so I don't think it would be very desirable to touch that cultural heritage or try to do what fellow Vincelj here suggested just from the position of cultural heritage. There are other clear levels to talk about when it comes to bells regardless of whether they are traditional or as they are today on an electro-acoustic principle that can be clearly regulated again, but these here belong to cultural heritage. I think my colleague Vincelj should know that no matter what time and time we live in, he's sometimes older than the law. What may have caused certain polemics here and on the committees on which I was personally present is actually Article 6 where it is mentioned about the permitted use of electro-acoustic devices up to 24 hours. I think that when compared to the question of orientation on tourism and weather one determination, it's not that much of a problem. More problematic, perhaps, is the question of how to determine those places. It's not a problem, I said it on the board today, it's not a problem to determine even local self-government units on one Sljemen or on Zrć. But the problem is to determine it in one city, let's say in one of Vedran's Trogir or in Makarska. Which is the space that we can define as such where something can happen regardless of even, this refers to Article 10 when it comes to sporting events, events and the like where units of local self-government are placed in a position to be and through their representative bodies that will therefore determine this time and also in this respect spatially. I don't think it's that simple to determine which spaces they are. And in principle we should also say that the basic principle of ours is that every man has the right to work and we must also enable every working man that he normally and calmly lips and to wake up in the morning goes to work, it is his basic right that no one can take away from him or even in this respect if we say that it is the development of tourism, etc. We must protect man in this sense his rights as guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In my view, as a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Spatial Arrangements, it may be very important and Article 9 which discusses the process of issuing a solution to the conditions of construction, location permits and building permits under a specific law, because then the clear ministry participates in determining these conditions in terms of noise protection, which is another contribution to qualitative acquisition or local or construction use permits which can certainly provide exactly what is the basic objective and that is to protect human health even in building certain objects. In part, I would, however, not entirely but in part support the proposal of my colleagues to the Spreme within the meaning of this law when it comes to monitoring where the sanitary inspection Article 17, or 18, will monitor the work, or therefore take measures, because it may be a little vaguely expressed in this part of the oral solution and how to apply it afterwards. And in that respect, I think my colleague, Sprem, is right, in my opinion. So that's my personal opinion and my personal opinion. Also, I think it is good that fines have been established for all offenders regardless of whether they are legal or physical persons. Here, I would like to thank and hope that we will all do everything together to adopt this final bill in terms of the primary objective of protecting human health.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27163	Thank you. It is Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27164	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We have one dared to say the noble law of the bill on noise protection, with the final bill of law. I would rely on the extraordinary discussions of Professor Hebrang and Mr Matkovic, who explained to us to the level of pathophysiology the damage to the impact of noise and elaborated practically within all possible decibels of graduation and effects on human health. In fact, the fundamental objective of this law is to protect human health, and in order to achieve this right here, we have this law right here. And as was said, in January 2003, the Croatian Parliament passed the Law on Noise Protection. This law lays down measures to protect against noise on land, water and air, and to monitor the implementation of these measures in order to prevent or reduce noise and eliminate hazards to human health. An analysis of the applicable law as part of the general environmental management project of the European Commission under the heading for monitoring the transmission and implementation of the legal property of the European Union in the field of the environment has identified the need to fully comply with the Directive on which it was said 2002/49 on the management of noise from noise maps and action plans. The need for harmonisation is also linked to the data supply requirements of the Ministry of Health used for the production of strategic noise maps as basic cards of noise and action plans, as well as the approval of these data by the Ministry as well as the keeping of records and strategic maps of noise and action plans. Taking into account the new structure of the Sanitary Inspection in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Sanitary Inspection, which entered into force on 1 January 2009, the proposed Law contains a paper on the issue of a solution on the implementation of noise protection measures which has been removed from the work of the Office of State Administration in Countys, i.e. from the City Office of the City of Zagreb, responsible for health services at the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Strategy maps of noise and action plans must be made fully available to the public, which is very important in accordance with specific regulations which determine information and public participation and public interest issues of environmental protection. And when drawing up strategic maps of noise and action plans, it is necessary to take into account the relevant recommendations of the European Union on accounting methods also referred to by Prof. Hebrang to calculate the noise of industrial areas of the main road, the main railway line and the main airport. Here I found one information that, for the purposes of the proposed State Budget Act, 111,000 kuna was secured on the activities of the Ministry, which I was told was actually a fee from the Sanitary Inspectorate. In any case, I support the proposal of this extraordinary quality law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27165	Thank you. There's a correction to an incorrect quote, Mr. Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27166	I've had it before so it wouldn't work out. My colleagues, Matkovic, I actually wanted to correct the allegations. Namely, an incorrect allegation that this is a conformity with the EU. It is not with the EU either because the number of vehicles foreseen under these criteria is not in line with the EU norm, but we have reduced that number which I think is not good, because we will have to correct and coordinate it again for a while. And it is particularly not in line with Croatian legislation because we do not have main roads or main railways. We have public roads, state, county and local.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27167	Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27168	Honorable President, Secretary of State, fellow MPs. So there is no doubt that this is a significant law that lays down measures to reduce the adverse effects on health caused by noise. The proposed law clearly defines the scope of application as well as noise management. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The allowed noise level here in the assembly should be about 40 decibels. If MPs were to use one normal rhetoric, a normal calm speech. But when the frequency of individual representative speeches or speakers is increased, then more than twice the normal noise limit is increased, up to 70, 80 decibels, which is usually disturbing and annoying, and then it is not against the negative reactions of other MPs to such speech by speakers. However, regardless of the noise of individual representatives or representatives, we are still in a better position than several million employees in Europe or tens of thousands of workers in Croatia who are exposed to noise in the workplace and the health risk caused by noise. The problem of noise is the most present in works of construction and industry, but also in many other working environments. About 7% of employees suffer from work-related diseases due to hearing damage. In Croatia, according to data from the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work for 2008, 18752 workers were screened for exposure to excessive noise. It is therefore also positive that the Noise Protection Act must be complemented by implementing measures against the noise of the plant, which comply with the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27169	Thank you. Mr. Representative Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27170	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Noise is a day-to-day stress factor of the environment and man does not have the ability to attract to a lasting excessive sound look. The reaction of the body to noise is unfavourable for human health, safety and good feeling. The noise on man acts directly and indirectly damageing his health, causing fatigue and reduced working ability, disrupting agreement, concentration, rest and sleep. It should be noted that there are individual differences in response to futures and depending on the level and frequency of noise, and the length of exposure may be from mild and transient to permanent damages. The proposed law lays down measures to avoid, prevent or reduce adverse effects caused by noise in the environment, including noise disturbances. The purpose of this law is to comply with the objectives of Directive 2002/49 which regulates activities to prevent, i.e. to reduce the adverse effects of noise: to determine exposure to noise by making noise maps on the basis of methods for assessing noise in the environment, to ensure the availability of information on noise and to make action plans based on data used in making noise maps. The noise protection measures must prevent the production of excessive noise emissions, i.e. to reduce existing noise to the permitted levels. The protection against noise is mandatory to implement and ensure its implementation by the state administration body, units of local and regional self-government, and legal and natural persons carrying out their registered activities. The provisions of this bill also regulate the decision of the representative bodies of the unit of local self-government in order to meet the need to hold public meetings and organise entertainment, entertainment and sports events and other activities in an open or closed space for the population and guests when there is the possibility of exceeding permitted noise levels,... streets, street parts and settlements, squares and other locations where allowed noise levels can be exceeded. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The same decision also lays down paths for the arrival and departure of participants of those events and noises resulting from those events should not cross the permitted borders in other streets or parts of the street, in other parts of the same settlement or other settlements. With an increase in urbanisation and industrialization, 25% of Europeans suffer from impaired physical, mental and emotional health due to increased noise, and more than 15% have sleep disorders. Half of the city's inhabitants are exposed to a daily level of noise of 55 decibels, a third of noises of 55 to 65 decibels, and 15% above 65 decibels, which is the limit above which a high degree of discomfort occurs. At local level, it is important to identify and monitor noise levels, predict the proportion of noise in spatial planning, green area planning and roads, and to implement measures to reduce noise levels when introducing any new activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27171	Thank you. Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27172	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This law is a health protection law, so I'm sure I'm for it. Thus, this law aims to prevent him from producing excessive noise emissions by avoiding prevention, or reduction. Professor Hebrang said everything about the very definition of noise, so there's no need to repeat it. About the effect of this noise on the organism either locally, centrally too, there is no point in repeating it. However, I would only refer to one law, since I come from Dubrovnik about the situation in Dubrovnik. In fact, this 7th article of the law prescribes that for cities of more than 100 thousand inhabitants, strategic maps of noise, or action plans are being drawn up. Somehow as soon as strategic maps and action plans are drawn up, it seems to me a more serious approach, a more responsible approach. And that's why I'm asking myself why these strategic maps and action plans, why aren't there fewer than 100,000 people in cities? For example, which city on the Adriatic, the tourist town all has less than 100,000 inhabitants. According to this, only 4 cities in Croatia can draw up these strategic maps and action plans. I'd like to remember and tell you what happened in Dubrovnik during this tourist season. They worked heavy construction machines, disrupted the peace of visitors, tourists, and citizens at a time when it shouldn't. The proposal states that legal provisions do not refer to noise arising from the removal of the consequences of natural disasters. So I wonder if it's a private villa building or if I don't know what it is? However, hotel houses and private renters were threatened, as well as citizens when they wanted to get some rest. It is also stated that these strategic maps are the basis for creating spatial plans, i.e. environmental protection. So isn't that just as crucial in tourist cities, or for sustainable development? Why would they divide cities by size, or population? Aren't all people the same hearing traits, I think the threshold of irritability is different. And who in smaller cities than 100,000 people kill controls noise levels? I'm allowing it, it's being controlled, but I think it might have gotten more serious this way. In particular, since we received calls from both citizens and private tenants, we warned of the problem. There were 15 construction sites and we're wondering which one of them has the license, and I don't think about the penalties, maybe one private person paid for it. Therefore, I repeat that it is not right to share this problem, that is to say, the creation of these strategic maps and action plans only to cities that have more than 100,000 inhabitants. I would like to look back on one more problem, which is especially in tourist centers, which is also the case with Dubrovnik, the problem on the one hand, someone wants to have fun, which is normal, people come on vacation, and on the other hand, it bothers noise. The dominant population wants to rest. You've all been to Dubrovnik, so you know what's inside the walls, the walls of our city. So, and there's a question of how, let's say, it's very difficult to make one measure, but those measures aren't just stopping prevention, but they're measures and reductions, so I think if there's something to be done, that can be done. And another thing we haven't heard tonight. We've heard that this law is protecting people's health, that's correct. However, Dubrovnik has a specificity because in a small, small part of our city and there is noise, strong decibels can damage cultural heritage. And there was a discussion as much damage as possible, whether the big concerts at Stradun and so on and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27173	Thank you. Our people are sooner if that noise was unbearable, then... Putting them to sleep. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But here's the problem. It's Mr. MP Vedran Rozic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27174	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, it looks like we have the same problems of our colleagues in Dubrovnik and us in Trogir. Well, as it's a little late, I'd just like a little bit. According to the legislative proposal, the strategic map of noise and action plans is mandatory to create cities with more than 100,000 inhabitants. In addition, this obligation to draw up strategic noise and action plans also relates to owners, i.e. concessionaries of industrial areas, main roads, main railway lines and main air lines. When making and now State Secretarys, we come to this one problem, when drawing up strategic noise maps and action plans it is necessary to take into account the relevant recommendations of the European Union on accounting methods for calculating the noise of industrial areas, the main roads and the main railways and the main airports. And now, Mr. Secretary-General in Article 2. When certain terms are alleged within the meaning of this law, they have the following meaning. I'd look back at the airport, because our city is so situated that it's practically winter and summer, and a few hundred planes fly through town on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays. And now in this interpretation of the main airport is a civilian airport with more than 50,000 operations, takeoffs or landings annually. Secretary of State, 50,000 operations, I think if we counted all Croatian airports, we wouldn't get to that number. I think it would be more appropriate in law to amend the conditions in the Republic of Croatia to that number, because what would happen to this law. So cities, the city of Trogir has 15 thousand inhabitants, the airport has some indicators of around 9, 10 thousand of these operations as mentioned here at the level of the annual and practical city cannot create a strategic plan of the noise map and the airport has no obligation to make this. As we have problems with this noise, we have made a professional analysis, where one company compared our airports quickly to Frankfurt and this airport in Split. What's this about? It is about setting up devices that not only measure the noise measure, but which is also a significant measure of the landing and take-off corridor. Because what's going on. Pilots avoid these corridors, do they save fuel and then the noise is even bigger. However, according to that study, all airports in Europe, meaning Quick, Frankfurt and all these major airports have those devices that register if the pilot lands or takes off past that corridor and the volume of noise and that device registers it and then automatically these airlines pay certain penalties that go to local self-government units and then that money is used to prevent noise. Thus, the secretary of state should change this figure as regards the obligation to make these airport noise tickets, because under this law no airport in Croatia should draw up this strategic plan. Well, as it is already too late, I would like to ask if it can be intervened in the law with one amendment, as neither Trogir city nor Split airport is obliged to make this map of noise. Here. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27175	Thank you. Or maybe behind Cossack with that? ... Mr. Representative Luke Denon. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27176	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. Of course, the proposal of the Law on Noise Protection will support, of course, all the people who sit here and those who may not be here tonight and I would like to say just a few sentences in what might be necessary, perhaps a little more compromise, and that nothing that is good is changed in the law itself, which we have brought or passed the Noise Protection Act. Namely, if we know that such a law in the Parliament in January 2003 was passed, which, according to what is written here in these materials already and then was in line with the then environmental noise management directive, especially in the section relating to the making of noise action plans, that you have been based on that law since 2003 and we have adopted a series of regulations. Well, here I am stuck for, here we have heard in the debate 100,000, 100,000, no, yes, how we're going to make these maps of cards of noise action plans, but it's all settled in the regulation, and as we heard in the debate part of the units of local self-government, and even the county has already begun to make a map of noise and action plans, realizing in time that 20 years ago we haven't thought about noise in such a way, nor has it been, but in the years that we should really take care of that account. And certainly when we talk about supplementing this law, or the new law, we have to say that is why this law is changing. Because the European Commission has adopted a recommendation on guidelines for amended provisional methods of noise calculation from industrial sources, noise from air, road, rail, and related emission data published in the Official Journal of the European Union. So these are all because we are changing or adopting a new law to comply with this recommendation issued by the European Commission. I have to regret what's the least noise in our beautiful industrial springs. I'm sorry because it means we don't have any factory noises, third shifts, because, of course, unfortunately, we don't have factories, but there's a noise that we might be able to kind of collapse into a small space if we did. It is obvious that this recommendation has concentrated on noise from air, road and rail traffic, and therefore this law is as it is here before us and passed. If that's the case, I also recommend to those who are in a dilemma not to make a map of noise, if they have fewer residents of the local self-government unit, I don't think it's forbidden by law if we do, if it's useful for our fellow citizens and for the units of local self-government, so I don't believe that because of what we're doing, we're going to be punished because we did something that's for the benefit of our citizens. What I would like to try in a way compromiseally resolve is the question of Article 6 of this law, which is, although I have not exactly read it in the recommendations that this law is changing, here he took to himself the task of talking about something that is the tourist season. This Noise Act also treats Croatia as a time for tourist season and not tourist season. And this law, in my opinion, may have to avoid it because what little about tourism I listen to and where I participate in the work we always say that for Croatia the whole year is tourist season. We have tourists coming to us both in winter and summer and I think we should avoid and try to avoid the restrictions of the tourist season from one date to another especially because what I know and what I hear is still tourism as one of the strategic important branches for the Republic of Croatia and treated to be a really important strategic branch, so it should not be limited to these dates from when it lasts, because it lasts for all tourist employees all year. That's number one. And the number two somehow doesn't seem to me like it's a good thing that we're treating this law, which is the use of electroacoustic devices in the open, I repeat in the open in the facilities registered to perform catering activities, and they're for that kind of use I'm talking about music, because it's probably music because through these acoustic and electroacoustic devices nothing else comes out. Here's the law we're declaring to be noise. It may be above these limits which it is and may be in line with these limits but somehow it does not seem to me to be a noise although I have my own affinities to some kind of music, so I can say that it bothers me and that it is noisy, but in any case for tourists for the tourist season, for people who are coming to us and for those who are engaged in the catering activity, it might be a good thing to rephrase this article a little bit that it is not so rigid and strict and especially that this activity lasts for the longest to 24.00 hours. So here is why we have also proposed through the Committee on Tourism but also individually for the amendment to fix this article, so that it is simply said that the time of use of electrical and acoustic devices in the open-air facilities registered to carry out catering activities is governed by local self-government units. Let the local self-government units do what they think is best. First, because these units, or their mayors and commissioners, are closer to these people, and they can better communicate when they allow something, when they ban something, when they're allowed to say "noise" but in any case, it would be good to leave it in their jurisdiction. Especially since Article 10 has already done so, in order to meet the need to hold meetings and organise entertainment, in an open or closed space, it has been added and closed here, for which local self-government is responsible by a decision of representative bodies which then determine where and when this can happen. I speak for that reason because in these times where we are and the appeals that we hear from all sides that there's a sensitive plant like tourism we don't limit one of these strict leads that it's up to 24 that it's in time from up to, because if it stays like this then something that happens here on Sljemen in the middle of winter when there's a "Snow Queen" then there's some noise and someone's playing through these electroacoustic devices, and then it's forbidden under this law, it shouldn't be. I think that maybe a little bit more sensitive to make it more peaceful for it to be in the jurisdiction of local self-government, so let those with their citizens and tourists try to happen when and in what open spaces that noise can possibly be exceeded for more than 24.00 hours and certainly all year, not in this time as it's written here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27177	Thank you. It's exactly 20 and 12 for a 10-minute application. And we still have Mr. Ivan Hanzek. There he is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27178	I'll try to be brief. Thank you. Excuse me. As far as the law is concerned, absolute support. I'd just like to tax-list some suggestions or suggestions here. I also agree with those who believe that certain powers should be transferred to the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Secondly, to put more pressure on local self-government by making practical decisions, because local self-government I can't talk about big cities, but smaller cities we have the best indicators when we have a public remark on noise, we report them to the inspection. The inspections never file charges. Every time they come, everything's right. Something a little better works with officers in the community who then warn them in a similar way. However, I think that the local community can establish restrictions on devices that produce noise in space in the late evening hours. I already said in correcting this inaccuracies that we shouldn't go for a change in the quantity of vehicles and the quantity of trains. It turns out that there is a difference of about 3 thousand vehicles, around our state road and some county roads are moving at most around 8 thousand 500 to 9 thousand vehicles on average. And by European standards, that's 8 thousand 200, this would be 5 thousand 480. A relatively close figure that if we adopt a European standard does not lead us to the need to re-adjust the law later. I also repeat, we should avoid these situations to introduce new concepts. We have the Law on Public Roads, State, County and Local. The unclassified are not yet, unfortunately. But we hope that an unclassified road will enter the change in preparation. And I think it should be termologically aligned with other laws not to confuse all those who need to make important decisions. Namely, this is also about highways. For now, the situation is such that new highways have legally prescribed noise protection while the old roads must be measured by noise, proved to be excessive and then the investor, i.e. the owner or concessionary, must build counter-species walls. As far as the conditions are concerned, and when it comes to noise, I absolutely feel that the law is necessary, that it should be followed by situations of its realisation because we have a common phenomenon that especially in the populated towns of the citizens is brought into an unpleasant situation for them to be those who report to their neighbor who performs inappropriate activities in the late evenings, so it is noise not only that it is health-bearing but it is about the rest of the citizens but also that it produces such noise that is health-threatening. So I support the bill. I'm calling for that. I'm sorry it's only in one reading. Until the second reading, perhaps in this same session, we could correct certain things, agree with the term and the terminology applied in other laws. And here again, the fact is that the ministry imposes on itself a job like that and in the event that the police have now transferred to themselves and another job to give consent whether there may be a summer terrace, a summer garden or any other form of catering facility which has not been the case so far. I don't think there's any need for the Ministry of Health to be burdened with additional work when these other ministries can regulate it. Here, as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27179	Thank you very much. That's what brought this debate to an end. I'm closing the debate. The proposal is not to vote on this law tomorrow so that the amendments tabled can be more realistically considered at a specified time and that amendments and the legislation should be voted on next week. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. And we'll vote about how we announced it. We are going to vote on the debated items of the agenda. We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Noise Protection. It was an emergency procedure for P.Z.E. Number 256. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted amendments. In accordance with Article 166. The Rules of Procedure of these amendments must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Who's in favour of having a debate on the government's amendments? We'd better raise our hands, 'cause as long as we're on board. Thank you. Who's against it? No one. Restraint? No one. This proposal was accepted by 118 votes. And we will discuss the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like a representative of Secretary of State Drazen Jurkovic to be shown about the amendments. First, the amendment is one in Article 1(5).
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27181	The proposed amendment therefore regulates that the provisions of the Law against noise do not apply to noise from useful items representing cultural good, in accordance with the rules on the protection and preservation of cultural goods. Cultural goods within the meaning of the Act on the Protection of Cultural Goods "National Journal" No. 69/99. 151/03. and 157/03. are considered to be mobile and immovable things of artistic, historical, paleontological, archaeological, anthropological and scientific significance. According to the above law, mobile cultural goods are also considered useful items, such as weapons and the like. The amendment proposes to exempt from the application of the law the noise caused by those cultural goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27182	I'm opening a debate. First of all, the amendment to the government. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the amendment proposal. Who would please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? The 119-vote amendment was unanimously accepted. We move on to the 2nd amendment of the Government in Article 2. 20.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27183	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final proposal of the Law regulates the obligation to draw up strategic maps of noise and action plans. Among other things, the owners, or concessionaries of the main airports. The proposed amendment in the definition of the main airport as a civil airport with more than 50,000 operations. The number of 50,000 is replaced by 10 grand. In order to protect the health of the population, the obligation to draw up strategic maps of noise and action plans should also apply to airports with a smaller number of landings and take-offs per year.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27184	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On Amendment 2. Government. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 2. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? It was unanimously accepted by 119 votes. Amendment 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27185	Since tourism is one of the strategic branches of the economy and the development of the Republic of Croatia, the amendment proposes that municipalities, cities and the City of Zagreb respect the local needs of customs and possibilities determine the time of use of electroacoustic and acoustic devices outdoors in facilities registered for catering activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27186	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. About the Third Amendment of the Government. I'm closing the debate. I propose an amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? It was unanimously accepted by 118 votes. Proposal for a Government Amendment 4 to Article 19(1) Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27187	So that's compliance with the third amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27188	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am putting Amendment 4 to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. The government's amendment was also adopted unanimously by 119 votes. Amendment 5. Governments in Article 25. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27189	Therefore, Article 25 is deleted as referred to in Article 25. The final proposal of the Law stems from the return of the law to proceedings initiated under the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Noise Noise No. 20/03. The amendment proposes to delete that article.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27190	I'm opening a debate on the 5th amendment. I'm closing the debate. I propose an amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? It was unanimously accepted by 120 votes. You've been given a tour of the other amendments on the bench. This is the first amendment of the Committee on Tourism to Article 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27191	The amendment is therefore not accepted because the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27192	Mr. Representative Brkaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27193	Here is the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has accepted the essence of the amendment of the Committee on Tourism, and in the interest of that, I would say primarily of the tourism economy, we will withdraw our amendment because the law is significantly improved compared to the earlier text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27194	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. 2nd Amendment, Representatives of Luke Denone, Article 6(2).
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27195	Therefore, the amendment is not accepted because the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27196	Mr. Representative Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27197	As the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is a combination of amendments of the Committee on Tourism and my amendment, has been accepted, and in this content part, it is important to improve the Noise Act that it will not be at the expense of tourism, I withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27198	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. 3. Amendment of representatives of Sima Lučina and Maria Habeka to Article 6(2)
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27199	Therefore, the amendment is not accepted because the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27200	Mr. Mario Habek. There's no one here. I am putting this amendment to a vote that the government does not accept because it has been accepted in the government's amendment. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Against? Restraint? This amendment was not accepted because 43 MPs voted against 77, but there were abstentions, 1 I mean abstention. Thank you. The amendment of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on Environmental Protection is set out in Article 11(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27201	So the amendment of the Committee is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27202	This amendment has been adopted and becomes an integral part of the bill. 5th Amendment of Representative Boris Spremo in Article 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27203	Therefore, the amendment is not accepted because the subsidiary application of the general administrative procedure law is governed by Article 36. The Sanitary Inspection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27204	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27205	Mr. President, I don't think it's going to work out exactly like Mr. Secretary of State said. Namely, what's this about? It is about the fact that this amendment suggests that when someone reports it, let's say it's noise and it's totally illegal noise at midnight at some catering facility, there's a sanitary inspector coming in and he's making an oral decision about banning work. After that, he can complain in further proceedings and I ask why he will complain. Will he complain on the basis of an oral solution? We're not, unfortunately, Finland. That is why I have suggested that, since an oral solution is needed in these emergency situations to draw up the minutes, it does not have to be drawn up at that time, but it must be drawn up to call this one, it can be complained. So please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27206	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 6th Amendment of Representative Boris Šprem to Article 18
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27207	Therefore, the amendment is not accepted because the subsidiary application of the General Administrative Procedure Act is governed by Article 36. The Sanitary Inspection Act. Same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27208	Thank you. Mr. Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27209	But you must be doing the wrong thing here. Why? Because you said in one article that the oral solution was made for the measures referred to in points 1, 3 and 4 and then you stated in the second article that other measures were relevant, but there was no idea which solution, I suggested by written solution for 2 and 5. So you didn't sort that out at all, and there will be terrible confusion and great problems in law enforcement. I'm sorry about that. I'm asking you to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27210	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 7. Representatives Sima Lučina and Maria Habeka on Article 19.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27211	It is not accepted because the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27212	Thank you. We have to vote because there are no MPs. Who is for this amendment by representatives of Shima Lucin and Maria Habek? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 8. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on Environmental Protection shall be referred to in Article 22.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27213	The amendment of the Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27214	This amendment shall be adopted and shall become an integral part of the draft law. Thank you I am voting on the final proposal of the Noise Protection Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that this law has been adopted by the majority of votes, 112 votes for and 4 abstentions along with the amendments adopted. We still have a condition for another short agenda point, I hope. - Final draft law confirming the International Treaty on Plant genetic resources for food and agriculture, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 257 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the proposal to discuss the urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Branko Boxti. Here you go. We've got another club registered.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27216	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We are facing an international agreement which has so far been joined by 118 countries or parties of the treaty since 2002, counting on the European Union as well. Croatia has made significant moves in the area of the protection and conservation of plant genetic resources, regardless of the fact that we have not been a formal member and signatories of this Treaty so far, in particular through the application of the Seed Act, fruit material and the recognition of agricultural plant varieties, and through the Regulation on the conservation and use of plant genetic resources, and the way in which the plant gene bank works and the regulation of the agricultural plant gene bank. What makes it possible to upgrade the existing system is the fact that by joining this international treaty we will allow the Republic of Croatia to participate in international cooperation and the free exchange of plant genetic resources. At the level of the World Food and Agriculture Organisation, as well as at the level of the European Union countries, the preservation of biodiversity in the era and the growing industrialisation, environmental pollution and climate change are becoming increasingly relevant. It should be said that biodiversity is particularly in the trend of organic production and a significant contribution to the competitiveness of agriculture. Croatian plant genetic sources, seeds and fruit material are rich in diversity due to the specificity of the Republic of Croatia, meaning Mediterranean, mountain and valley. Part of this plant genetic material has already been installed in domestic cereal, pods, blood plants, and the like. But there are a number of genetic indigenous materials yet to be collected. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Science funded several scientific projects that should have contributed to the formation of the Croatian plant gene bank. Also, an agricultural institute in Osijek or the Institute for Seeding in Osijek is also doing important work on the promotion of domestic genetic plant material. Many cultivators have become an export product. The production of domestic seedlings and seeds should be one of the priorities of agricultural policy. And this international contract should help promote our genetic plant potential globally. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27217	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27218	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Although this is one small point, I would still like to say, even in these late hours, that this proposal for a law on the validation of the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture with the Final Bill is certainly important for the organisation, collection, preservation, description and use of plant genetic resources in agriculture. In addition, this law confirming this international treaty will encourage the creation of a single Croatian plant gene bank because this is the basic objective that this law promotes and for the purpose of creating a global information system through which information from the gene bank will be made available to everyone with a facilitated exchange of materials and a fair distribution from their use. I think it is very important for the Republic of Croatia, which at this point does not have a central bank of plant genes, but through the national programme, it is otherwise arranged, but in order to get the right bank of genes I think there is much more to be done and that is certainly significant for the Republic of Croatia, which, with about 3 million hectares of agricultural areas of which is one and a half million hectares of orans and gardens, which includes 75% of the working areas of 10% of the population involved in agriculture and of which is 11% of gross GDP. This is why the Republic of Croatia must take care of Croatian plant genetic sources of seeds and fruit material. Why does it matter? So it is important not only because of this signed international contract, but precisely because of the diversity of this genetic material that the Republic of Croatia is abounding in. It is related to specificities created in the fields whether Mediterranean, mountainous part of the Republic of Croatia or in our fertile plains. It is part of this plant genetic material that has already been installed into domestic cults, cereals, pods, feeding plants, and others. However, numerous genetic indigenous materials have not yet been collected and where studied and preserved. They need to be investigated because there is a need and a possibility to be used now or in the future whether for agricultural production, whether to edit landscapes or the like. Why does it matter? Well, because our environment is getting more and more polluted every day, so there's a risk of genetic erosion from these unexplored sources. I don't think it would be good to lose some indigenous plant genetic products that we should at some point or that we might have to use at some point. Today, cultivation of traditional, indigenous, plant materials that were characteristic of rural farming is increasingly moving towards the production of modern, high-born cultivators further makes it difficult to maintain these Croatian plant sources and most of the 260 agricultural species. Another thing that affects these plant genetic materials is urbanization and industrialization of our space. It also reduces the genetic diversity of our indigenous variants, thus jeopardizing national processing, seeding and wasteland as fundamental branches of agriculture. In our case, the activities of the conservation and collection of genetic resources are carried out within the National Programme for Plant genetic resources in agriculture, and the Institute for Seeding and Dispersion in Osijek runs a central gene bank where all data on preserved and collected genetic resources are pooled, with other gene banks involved in the national programme from the Ministry, the gene banks, universities, institutors institutes, other legal and physical persons. That is why there is a obligation to create a single bank of genes at the level of the republic. This is certainly something, but our goal must be to create this Croatian plant gene bank as an independent scientific institution of the Republic of Croatia which will be tasked with using available scientific methods to allow the conservation of agricultural plant sources in... So, in a way that this genetic material will be preserved in a scientific way in the world. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croatian plant gene bank will then be the cornerstone of plant production in the Republic of Croatia. The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development provided for a budget for the job of preserving plant genetic resources amounting to a million and a half kuna. It is only now necessary to organise, organised to approach the organisation of the Croatian plant gene bank of agricultural plants. With the confirmation of this international treaty, international funding should also be more generous and there would be a greater possibility of its use. Therefore, the SDP club supports the law confirming this international contract, because we believe it is very important for Croatia to be independent in its part of the conservation of plant genetic species and in the possibility of redistributing it. But also in contact with other countries regarding changes and the creation of new species that could ensure better quality and better production and much more food in both Croatia and the rest of the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27219	Thank you very much. It's certainly very important. We have huge biological and genetic potentials. We need to keep them safe. We're moving on to individual. Mr. Goran Heffer called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27220	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. I'm going to have a brief discussion maybe a little unusual, but when we talk about plant genetic potential, then there's a lot of things to cover. I believe there is no one among us who has not heard of Slavonic plum, a brandy that is indigenous to a far-known, recognizable product from Slavonia. Okay, that's the taste thing now. The fact is that Slavonic plum is legally prescribed, i.e. the only form of alcoholic drink that is as an indigenous registered. What may be less known is that the high quality level of Slavonic plums and its visibility across Europe has been achieved by Austria-Hungarian and by prescribing certain measures related to the rise of Slavonic plum plantation, as well as building regulations, technical equipment, etc. Slavonic plumfish. In addition, measures were also prescribed to organise the production and marketing of Slavonic plums, all of which speak about the importance of this production both in the social and economic sense for the then entire Slavonia, which was then referred to as the Austria-Hungarian preferred. Slavonic plums have said today a protected product of original geographical origin that you can find in all parts of Europe. For example, it's hard to find in Germany a German who hasn't heard or who doesn't know what it is, the Echte celebratory snaps. That's what I think everyone knows. The basic characteristics of Slavonic plums are normized in our law by an appropriate regulation published in the "National Journal" No. 20 of 2007 where for the first time in 300 years, it receives a full name with an adjective Slavonic because of the area from which it originally originates. So that's the guy, unfortunately, not there. Slavonic plum is produced from indigenous plum varieties, so this is a basic condition. By applying the long-term experience of the manufacturer in accordance with the traditional production process. This gives you an aperitif whose greatest features are excellent quality and a specific aroma. The fullness of the specific aroma and the exceptional piety of this brandy is obtained by subsequent maturing through serving in wooden barrels of Slavonic oak, also prescribed by the regulation. A number of studies have shown that Slavonic plum is a product without traces of pesticides and that due to the traditional production process it is a pure organic product. Maybe someone will tell you what this debate has to do with the proposal for a law on the approval of the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture. But my debate has to do with the bill's proposal so much that this law ensures the preservation of indigenous species of plums from which Slavonic plums are produced. It also ensures that Slavonic oak is preserved from which barrels are produced which are, as we have said, a very important factor in getting exactly that kind of drink. The most famous type of plum, while we're talking about Slavonic autochton plum, is a pearl, we've probably all heard of it. All right, Licians are quite loud, but in some parts of Slavonia there are still different indigenous species such as whites, walp, hills, thicklers, stonesmiths and other similar species. It is the types of plums that succeed in this climate in that area that are not, so to speak, plantally widespread and that are quite invaluable in terms of collecting and making brandy from it. However, they are indigenous, they represent one significant part of the biodiversity of the Republic of Croatia, mainly there in the area of Slavonia, but what is a pity is that all these indigenous species of plums are extremely susceptible to different forms of disease of which we all have heard the most famous pattern of which we believe. The carp can destroy the entire plant population of plums within a very short period of time and there is no cure. Therefore, in order to preserve these, but also some other indigenous kinds of fruits, vegetables, in this case plums are what is most important to us, that a law like this comes to allow us to place genetic potential in the Gen Bank all those samples of such indigenous products as Slavonic plums. This is, of course, just one example on which I wanted to express my satisfaction with the adoption of a law like this and what will be set up tomorrow in accordance with that law so that we will not, under the rise of all these various hybrids and all those ways of protecting fruits and vegetables, simply lose these things, that is, these plant species that we had from the antiquities. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27221	Thank you very much. I'm sorry I can't get involved in this debate because there's no one here to chair, but anyway, if I can say so, I support this because this is our wealth that we're not even aware of, which in a genetic sense means it's for the future. Thank you very much. We will conclude the debate on this item of the agenda and vote when the conditions are met. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, tonight is a plan that we've drawn aroundly fulfilled. We will continue the session tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a agenda report on the work of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions for 2007 and means 9.30 p.m. I wish everyone a good night and I'll see you tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-12-0.u27222	Final proposal for a law confirming the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture. I am voting on the final proposal of this law. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? Unanimously with 100 votes set out this Final Bill.
