ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42702	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here we are again today. Of course we are pleased, I speak on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and again as you know with the proposal that the Croatian Parliament confirms the arbitration agreement I signed on the basis of which I received from the Croatian Parliament. So, as we all know, the Croatian Parliament decided on November 2nd to approve the signing of the arbitration agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I think I can say we're at the end of one big and important job today. I believe it will confirm history. Of course, I will not use big words and this is not the time, but I believe that the years to come will confirm that the Government of the Republic of Croatia was right when it decided and when it proposed to the Croatian Parliament the signing of this agreement, of course on the basis of documents, based on a declaration that was still in '99. The year has just been brought by the Croatian Parliament. So, I think I can conclude today and that you will do so in your discussions, that in fact, the constant of Croatian state policy of all years since independence was precisely that the border between Croatia and Slovenia must be determined exclusively and solely on the basis of international law. And I think it's good to find out today that by signing the Agreement on arbitration in Stocholm and for the first time in 18 years Slovenia has made such a commitment. And I think it is an extremely important moment in history or for history, but certainly also for interstate relations between the two countries, between friendly Croatia and Slovenia. So, I would like to mention here today that Article 3 is very clear, that the course of the border at sea and on land between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia will be established on the basis of the rules and principles of international law. That's what the ladies and gentlemen wanted from the first moment. So, I'll mention since '92. the years when Croatia's efforts began, certainly Slovenia too, to resolve the issue and the problem. It was as you know the rises and declines in the negotiations and talks between the two countries, between Croatian and Slovenian officials, between the prime ministers, but certainly different commissions. Unfortunately, without success here until this moment, or until these days or rather, here is the moment when Prime Minister Pahor and I started talking, so from Trakoscan, certainly through Gdansk, but also to Ljubljana when we informed the public that according to our opinion we were at the end of the road. Ladies and gentlemen, the Croatian position was also from the first moment that the border dispute must be resolved before the international judicial authority. So these are our views on international law and on the international judicial body. What we're absolutely certain and I can say at the end of this time, so I'm going to do it one more time, because I think it's extremely important, that these are arguments in our hands and that these may be arguments of ladies and gentlemen, when you decide today to confirm this agreement. Therefore, the border dispute is resolved under international law, the border dispute is resolved before the international judicial authority. Croatia does not give up its territory by this agreement. This is not a border agreement, this is an arbitration court agreement that will then set a limit to international law. And what is equally important is that this agreement finally separates the important issue for Croatia, I think one of the most important in the history of the independent Republic of Croatia, so that negotiations, the conclusion of negotiations, Croatia's entry into the European Union, from the resolution of the border dispute. And that is why today I mention Article 11 of this Agreement where we have clearly installed a provision that says that all but just all procedural deadlines start from the moment Croatia signed the Treaty of Accession to the European Union. So I think that by the agreement that lies ahead of you, or the Act of Confirmation of the Agreement that has dealt with the key issues that have plagued us, which have plagued us all these years. Ladies and gentlemen, one more important thing, of course, that came out and during the debate when we asked you to support Croatia on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, on behalf of the Government, but on the basis of your approval, I sign this agreement in Stockholm is a question which, of course, we have discussed a lot about which people, which experts, who will ultimately decide on this key issue as well as the basis of the agreement. Mr. President, maybe I won't say any more attention, but here I am also thinking about the importance of the document ahead of you. Therefore, Article 2 of the arbitration agreement provides that members of the arbitration tribunal will be recognised by experts of international law. They will be elected as you know, and there has been a lot of solutions, based on a list drawn up by the President of the European Commission and the Commissioner for Enlargement, and if, of course, Croatia and Slovenia do not agree in this case, then the selection of the arbitration panel will be determined, and then the President of the International Court of Justice will be appointed for the election of the arbitration panel. I think that this is an extremely important provision also in this agreement, and I am immediately on the basis of the debate in the Croatian Parliament, of course on the basis of the powers to sign the agreement and after I have sent a letter to the President of the European Commission to Mr Jose Manuel Barroso, who received my envoys, Mr. Secretary of State Bozinovic, but also the Deputy Head of the Office of my Office in the Government of Mr. Davor Stir. So, also in that conversation based on the letter I sent to Mr Barroso where I once again stood up for the firm criteria to be chosen by the Arbiters, so those people, those judges, those experts who will ultimately decide on the border issue. So we have received assurances that this list of candidates for arbitration will be drawn up according to criteria, therefore exclusively professionalism, impartiality and independence, and that they will conduct consultations with both Croatia and Slovenia in an open and transparent manner. Even before these talks, and before sending a letter to the President of the European Commission, I was personally convinced as the members of the government, members of the coalition that this will be because there is no reason for Croatia to doubt, at any time, independence, professionalism, the impartiality of these people, those judges who will decide on a question which is of course a historic question for us when we believe, and at this point we trust the European Commission which, since Croatia has definitely entered the final line of negotiations for entry into the European Union. So we believe the indications coming from the European Commission that they will provide us in 2012 and 2013. 3.5 billion euros, therefore, is a plan for Croatia. So if we believe that it will be so, then there's no reason to do a little comparatively that maybe even those who will listen and watch would be simpler. There is no reason not to believe that the choice of these judges, these arbitarians will be truly transparent but that they will be the best experts who will be able to make the best decision on the basis of international law that will not be opposed to Croatian interests. And that's why we believe it's going to happen, and that's why we believe it's really going to be the best of the best experts. In accordance with the decision of the Croatian Parliament on 9 November of this year, ladies and gentlemen, I signed the Declaration of the Republic of Croatia with the arbitration agreement, which states that nothing in this agreement will be considered a consent of the Republic of Croatia at the request of Slovenia for territorial contact with the open sea. The statement by the ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs is important because the Croatian and Slovenian sides jointly informed the Swedish Presidency of the European Union and the United States prior to the signing of the arbitration agreement. So, the facilitators in the negotiations here are indicated to confirm that both sides agreed that a statement by the Republic of Croatia is given, I repeat once again, that nothing in the agreement will be considered a consent to the Slovenian request for territorial contact with the open sea. It is therefore important to point out that such agreement confirms that Croatia has not acted unilaterally and without consulting the other side. Ladies and gentlemen, here is the law before you that we propose, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that the agreement signed in Stockholm be confirmed. We did what we could best. I think we are really at the end of an important, difficult road in which much and long negotiations were negotiated regardless of how it may have sometimes been done in public. I'm sure we're on our way. And I will repeat what I have already said here several times that it seems to me that if we do not now decide on this agreement that I personally believe no future generation of politicians will be able to negotiate through negotiations anything that would be better and more favourable for Croatia. I think that Croatia has shown this that it is primarily a serious partner, that Croatia has shown that we can all build together and build a culture of construction and it is quite certain that it is always easier and to attack and dispute as we have witnessed both these days and in public, and often I have to say it without arguments. And I've often seen people almost sovereignly speaking about this agreement, and from what they're saying, it's clear from what they're saying that they haven't read it at all. So I think, in this act, if you and Madam Representatives and gentlemen of Parliament confirm this agreement, you show that we have, or that we are on a great path, first of all to end this problem. On the other hand, we have separated negotiations from resolving the border issue. Here is a new intergovernmental conference for the 27th of this month, where we expect new chapters to be opened. I think that's very important. In the government, of course, the whole process of our work that we had done was significantly accelerated, as you know, after Prime Minister Pahor and I agreed, an intergovernmental conference was held at the time where 11 chapters were also open and closed. So, after these conversations, it's obvious that a lot of things just started from a dead end. What I want and what I can promise you that I will do in the coming days to track down the agreement on strengthening economic cooperation between Croatia and Slovenia, I think it is extremely important in the moments of the economic crisis, is also working to solve the problem of the savings of the Ljubljanska Banka. So that's what the prime minister and I in Ljubljana were already talking about. And here's what we're going to do, and I believe that even in the discussions on the issue of the savings of the Ljubljanska Banka, we're going to be just as successful about the problem with the Ljubljana Bank as we are about this agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe all this has happened because of one atmosphere of respect and mutual respect. So in the atmosphere of good neighbourly relations between the two countries. I believe definitely in the culture of dialogue and in the sincerity of those who helped us and who encouraged us on our way to build and finally sign the agreement. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President, of course the final decision is on your behalf and on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which has also confirmed, or which has adopted and proposed this Law on Confirmation, I suggest that you give your support, to vote in favour of this Law confirming the arbitration agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42703	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Policy, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42704	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Madam President, Mr. Minister. The Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament at the 30th session held on 19 November 2009 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on arbitration between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with the final proposal of the Law, P.Z.E. Number 472, which has been delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by act of 12 November 2009. The Committee on Foreign Policy discussed the proposal of this law to the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a home working body. This law confirms the arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia signed by the Prime Ministers of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia, Mrs Jadranka Kosor and Mr Borut Pahor, in accordance with the Croatian Parliament's decision of 2 November 2009. When the arbitration agreement was signed, a joint statement was signed confirming that each parliament would confirm this agreement. During the debate, it was pointed out that the arbitration agreement constitutes a legal framework establishing an arbitration court that will establish, on the basis of international law, the course of the border at sea and land, between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia, and on the basis of international law, justice and the principles of good neighbourly relations, the link between Slovenia to the open sea and the regime for the use of relevant maritime areas. All processes, deadlines laid down in the arbitration agreement, will apply from the date of signing of the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, thereby separating the process of accession negotiations from the resolution of the border issue. It has been concluded that under the current circumstances, the agreement is an optimal result of long-term efforts and negotiations between stakeholders. Considering this agreement extremely important for the Republic of Croatia, its national interests and the achievement of the main foreign policy objectives have been welcomed by all present members of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Following a detailed debate with representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which further clarified certain aspects of this Agreement, the Committee unanimously supported this proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on arbitration between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42705	Thank you. On behalf of the National Committee, representative of the committee, Ms Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42706	Thank you. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The National Committee, which does not normally discuss the laws, but in its jurisdiction has parliamentary control over the process of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, and then all the moves and decisions we make regarding the process. He considered two sessions of the agreement, so the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. After extensive and extensive consultations, within the committee and within the parties, he made a unanimous decision at his session of 19.11. to give a positive opinion on the Proposal for a Law confirming the arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42707	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42708	President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable Prime Ministers, ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies and parliamentary deputies. Today I will try to explain to you what it means to be actively restrained and to say some things that Croatia... And I was just about to apologize to these professional provocators for the chatter in the ranks of the SDP as Mrs. Kosor spoke, but it obviously doesn't make sense. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] However, to understand what active restraint means and which in the European legal and political jargon means the concept of active restraint because these are the things that are waiting for us, open books, read, and constructive restraint. So, after the agreement was signed, after a commitment was made, I was on my side in talks with the President of the European Government and before trying to clarify with several Commissioners some things that are usually done when it comes to good business practices before the agreement is signed. First, you arrange the item, the price, the characteristics of the goods, and then you sign and you give the money. That's not done this time. For you colleagues and colleagues, and primarily from the ruling party, I think you would still have the opportunity to look at Slovenian Prime Minister Borut Pahor's visit on Slovenian television, the day before yesterday, or the day before yesterday, where he explained very detailedly and plastically to the leader how this agreement was made, how they agreed with the European Commission, in which stages were negotiated and I would like to hear the testimony of the President of the Croatian Government. So it was one chronology of the creation and birth of this agreement and the agreements Slovenia had with the recently sung European Commission, Croatia behind its back. This still does not mean that this is a devastating agreement for Croatia but is simply an incomplete solution that after 7.8 years of emotional abuse of Croatian citizenship and the people of Croatia brings about a solution that is likely to be exactly the same or at least similar to that on which many in this House have built their political careers. And now we have what we have, not God knows what. I was in Brussels, looking for a meeting with Barroso, talking, what did I do? God knows what. What did the government do? What did the prime minister do in that sense before she signed the agreement? That would be interesting to hear. Let's say I was wondering what was the date of the letter sent to the President of the European Commission, Barroso, and at what point did she send the letter, given that it was the key person to select the arbitration officer? Did you send that letter before you signed the agreement or after? Because there's a huge difference here, a fundamental difference. So I came back from Brussels with some information, not God knows what. The President of the European Commission has said that on his part as a person who nominates arbitres, and apparently for him someone from the Commission will work because he is not involved in these matters and here diplomatic and political discretion will prevent me from hearing some of the things that I have heard and I know I speak openly, but it will be done by someone third to him. Of course a man has important things to do right now. So you see what's going on in the EU and that the agreement of Croatia and Slovenia has not been read in the past, and look out for us it's a very important thing. There, therefore, the President of the European Commission is mentioned as a person who draws up, or nominates, the list of arbitarians. Very important. What does the Croatian government do in this regard before signing the agreement? Nothing. What's he doing after he signs the deal? He's sending a letter. Nice, so what is the European Commission? The European Commission is the guardian of European agreements. The agreement, i.e. after Lisbon, is the guardian of the Lisbon Agreement and in that sense has one very determined guard and attitude towards all members. And here to colorate the European Commission as a friend of the people, as... compared to Croatia is simply unusual. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, people with that commission will have, like all Member States, disputes, understanding, conflicts, etc. But what happened in this particular case? The Croatian public must know this because the final decision follows from this chronology of events. Follow this arbitration agreement that sets the rules of the game. So, once again for, not for history but for actuality, Rehn 1 was adopted in this House on our initiative with the consent of all. And then this Rehn 1 didn't respond to Slovenia because it didn't suit her, because some of the units were not promising enough for Slovenia. And then Slovenia, Croatia, is behind the back, in negotiations with the Commission, about which Pahor spoke to you openly on Slovenian television 3 days ago, openly, Mrs. Kosor, Mrs. Prime Minister, these are not public matters, these are not discretions, these are not, so I'm going to ask you to deny it, you missed it, it's not a terrible thing to do with public matters. So, I'm here, I'm here to keep my discussions discreet with European Commissioners and statesmen, but I'm telling you what your associate said on Slovenian television and on several occasions. Please deny it to the Croatian public. So how did the provisions that finally ended up in the agreement come to pass? It came in such a way that after Croatia adopted Rehn 1, Slovenia made amendments to Articles 2 and 3 of the Agreement in agreement with the Commission. In particular, the change that mentions the word "junction" is a Slovenian initiative and their formulation, so if it turns out to be bad for Slovenia, it is their problem. But I think they know about their interests. And this way of selecting the arbitar which is extremely unusual, it is also Slovenia in agreement with the commission made. Is that a crime? It's not. Is that politics and the way work was done? Well, let's say so. How's that gonna end up? What's that gonna do in the end? So with one solution that corresponds to more Slovenia than Croatia, but why 7 years of traumatizing this country? What did you bring us? It's nothing special. What have I been able to change? Nothing. So, and then finally we hear from the President of the European Commission who, of course, has more important jobs not too much time to deal with these things and to study them, that the arbiters he will propose or will do it for him or will ask Croatia and Slovenia a little, and that is not all regulated by the agreement, that then these judges will be impartial and independent. So, impartial and independent. But you know what the problem is? That's not in the agreement. And why didn't you negotiate that, too? But we must also make arrangements in the manner of a bad master to some of the letters you send after you have signed the agreement. I don't want to bother you anymore. This is not how the state should be run, this is not how the state is run. This is simply one consent to conditions that suit the other side more. And if you find me exclusive and inaccessible, then I must encourage you in such thinking, I am only in matters of Croatian interests, but I am not militant. I understand the circumstances, we understand what a historic moment is and we understand that at this point it is not the best that Croatia can get, but the best that such a government with such a president can give. It's the reality we live in. Let's correct the wrong quote. So correct the wrong quote of people. So it's very exclusive when it comes to rational Croatian interests. And I'll always be active in these situations, and then I'll be restrained and I'll talk to anyone I can talk to. Unfortunately, there's a line to how things are done. As some candidates say, God prays in order. This line was disrupted this time. And it's not good, it's not well done. In particular, let's make a statement here that was sold as some kind of major success of Croatian diplomacy. At a meeting in the government in the Ban Courts where we were 40, my first reaction was Madam Prime Minister, which is why this statement. Well, that statement doesn't mean anything. Well, at the moment, Slovenia will give you a contradictory statement to which our statement will be adjudicated. And what's going on? It happens that in the end the Swedish Presidency did not sign because Slovenia opposed what it did. What did the Slovenian Prime Minister say that I don't trust and can't trust more than you do. It's a completely wrong set of things. I wish I was talking about it, not just me, but we could all talk earlier. He says that Slovenia has made its statement, which is exactly what it is doing, and that as far as they are concerned, the statement could be signed by China, China, Nigeria, but it is not Sweden. So that was what we managed to negotiate. As we can see, we have not been able to negotiate, and it is not at all important and you should not have bothered us. And why finally vote or vote for this ah arbitration agreement? For Croatia to continue negotiations. Probably. So that Minister Schuker, as he said here yesterday in this House, may, when we enter the European Union, continue to be in debt but this time cheaper. That's what we're voting for. That's what your government member said. Here's what we're going to vote for, though I don't believe that. Because we are tired of traumatising Croatian citizens, people, Croats, Serbs, Hungarians, Italians, Jews, Bosniaks, all of us and therefore we will vote in favour of this agreement. But not because, not because you did a good job. Because this is not how work is done and it can be done, everyone can do it like this. And if you want to talk about the real, acute and chronic problems of this country, then talk about the way partners in trouble need to talk. Not in a way that you bring the ones you need to be partners in front of the wall before the final act. So, once again, this is not a matter of trust or trust to you or to Borut Pahor. It would be logical that in this Chamber, as the Slovenian National Assembly has discussed several times, at least once or twice we have discussed this agreement openly, which was agreed on by Croatia behind the back in which Slovenia actively participated in which Slovenia negotiated with the European Commission what Article 2 and Article 3 would look like and it is our turn to tell our citizens. And like a month ago, I'll say next. This "junk" is something Slovenia has been looking for and getting in the hope that this is better for them. We'll see. There are many professors who think it's much worse for Croatia, and there are those who think it matters. So we'll see. As far as the selection of arbitarians and the role that the commission played together with Slovenia in drawing up such a contractual provision I was here and here we were reserved and I was still booked. Because it is clear how this provision was made, and it is clear who conceived it with and why it was so written. And it is clear that this role of the commission, I will say it one more time, was not the most correct in relation to Croatia. But good afternoon! That's what's waiting for us. By entering the European Union, honey and milk will not come. We will have struggles for our interests, and we must be determined with other members and with groups of members, and we will often interpret things differently from the European Commission. It's not honey and milk. It's just a new phase of Croatian history. And that is why those who say it is good that it is necessary to join the European Union, in order for the European Union and its rules to correct our bad habits, are doing a bear service to Croatia. This is not the reason for entering the European Union. Because if we say so, then we ourselves admit that we are in no condition without the European Union in the right way to regulate our country. And I think we are. And I think that in the European Union it will probably be something better for us. We are going inside for ourselves, not for the sake of the European Union. And that's why the SDP club after a lot of thinking, without any enthusiasm, with a lot of reserves, but relatively conscious of what this is about, eventually accepts this arbitration agreement and will vote for it. But I have to say here at the end after everything I've said, people are reserved accordingly. I believe the great majority will vote yes. I didn't force anyone to do it. Because we are aware that after 8 years of trauma you are returning Croatia to a place where it could have been 8 years ago, without the Ljubljanska banka, without Krškog, with a complete land border and with a more or less certain outcome of the borders at sea. Once again, thank you for that. We'll do better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42709	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42710	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Of course I have to say a few words simply because the Croatian public would not remain disinformed after the presentation of some of the findings that have been made, which are simply not correct. So, Mr Milanovic, on behalf of the SDP, began his presentation by saying what we should have done and what we should have received in the negotiations, and also in talks with the European Commission and he literally said that we should be seen, and he talked about negotiations and talks on the signing of this agreement, where, of course, it is said about resolving the border issue, important for the Republic of Croatia and the separation from the negotiations for entry into the European Union, and he said, among other things, that there must be a characteristic of the goods. And that I should have arranged the characteristics of the goods. Well, Mr. Milanovic, Croatia is not a commodity. This way we cannot discuss Croatia and Croatian interests. What is also more than regrettable, Mr Milanovic constantly mentions Prime Minister Pahor, his talks with him, what he saw on Slovenian television, etc. and shows that he absolutely doesn't trust me, that he doesn't trust the Croatian government and shows me that I think I can say the weakness of sometimes and significant Croatian politicians from history who have always trusted foreigners more and more than their own people. I think that's the key thing. Mr. Milanovic, I also spoke very clearly and very precisely several times at the government meeting, but also here in the Croatian Parliament about the course of negotiations, about how they went and mentioned the last time very clearly. We could have talked about it as much as you wanted. That Slovenia, as I said last time, was looking for territorial contact and that at the first moment "junction" was not acceptable to them. Therefore, the agreement in front of you is the result of agreements, talks, negotiations and compromises but what we have achieved crucially is that ultimately and ultimately, it will be determined by the rules of international law. And that's what Croatia wanted and that's what Croatia did. Which was still one of the topics that we've been very much negotiating about, which is probably not what Mr. Pahor said on Slovenian television that you've been watching closely, which is that they insisted that the deblockation be lifted only when we sign the contract and not how we've succeeded now. And as you know, an intergovernmental conference has already been held. I am leaving both the European Commission and the Croatian public for the assessment of how you are actually one and I will say a humiliating way of talking about both the European Commission and the President of the European Commission Barroso. You were also talking about how much more could have happened six, seven years ago and I don't know how many years ago. But once again, I want to do it again even though I've never talked about it much since I think what's past is a thing of the past. But now we have an agreement ahead of us. The Racan-Drnovšek agreement was not good because through the agreement Croatia would give up territory immediately at the beginning. The agreement, as you know, President Mesic then did not accept the president of the state. She did not accept it, the ruling coalition did not agree on the agreement. And today, of course, we have another situation. Therefore, as Mr Milanovic said on behalf of the SDP that this agreement is not devoid of what I really do not know which way it will vote for then, but I believe that we will finally reach a consensus, that we will agree, that this site will be locked up and that we will indeed all work together to complete the negotiations, that Croatia will become a member of the European Union even if there is a Mr. Representative Milanovic says that it is not honey and milk. True, many more challenges await us but I do not know any country that is a member of the European Union, which has become a member of the European Union that wanted to be released from that association afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42711	Thank you. We have one correction. Mr. Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42712	Thank you. I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that I said the characteristics of the goods should be determined by the conclusion of the contract. I said the essential characteristics of the goods and that's the important difference. And Mrs. Kosor, who studied law, should know quite thoroughly what the difference is. It is not Croatian goods but the subject of a contract that speaks of goods and essential characteristics, which is very important. And as for your observations that I believe more, once again this pathetic unnecessarily, Prime Minister Pahora, than you. No, not unconditionally. But since you went to law school, you know that saying, "I like Plato, but I prefer the truth.".
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42713	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42714	Thank you, gentlemen of the HDZ. How's it going? First of all, I would like to congratulate the Slovenian football team on a fantastic football success in the face of the Russians. I must admit, I am truly pleased, just as I was rooting for Bosnia. But what do we do? A miracle didn't happen. ... Bosnia and Herzegovina, that's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You know, after the game, Pablo cleaned up his diggers. Okay, why did I start out like that? Because I want to convince you that I am absolutely for the best possible relationship to Slovenia. I've never said a bad word in my life about the Slovenian people or the Slovenian state, but I'll say if the Slovenian politicians hired me, then I can only think of others in this country. The purpose of Slovenia's policy at this point, headed by Mr. Pahor, was all along only one, how to reach a part of Croatian territory or Croatian territorial waters. I'm afraid they're on to it, too. I'm not going to say now which is worse or better agreement, whether this one or that one, Racan, Drnovsekov, but the fact is that here is the story or the arbitration will be about land as well as the sea. On the other hand, we have Slovenian politicians, not Slovenian people or Slovenia who are not ready to do any gesture towards the Republic of Croatia. To this day they hold an army in St. Gera, they openly say St. Gera is an undisputed Croatian territory but the fact is that they do not want to move that army. It is clear that there is no kind of lunatic in this country who would solve this issue with the military. They do not want to resolve the matter of savings for 115 thousand Croatian savings in the Ljubljanska Banka until today. However, they are moving forward and will likely be resolved through a succession, meaning those common money or joint assets that remain or remain behind ex Yugoslavia. When I talk about this and I will be against this agreement, I also want to say that in 93rd I participated in the launch of an Istrian brewery that is in one strange Croatian-Slovenian ownership. I signed concessions in Piran Bay. In a way, with Dean Fattyuh, I've stopped Mr. Rachan from paraphrasing one, two acres around Joras' house, and not counting any further. But once again, if anyone cares about those good neighbourly relationships because I see that border, then I'm sure I do. Would the non-signing of this arbitration agreement distance Croatia from the European Union? I say you wouldn't. For not entering the European Union in these areas are far more responsible than Pahora our corruption, say non-cooperation with The Hague, or... sanctioning war crimes, these day-to-day escapes we watch almost in the refugees when our criminals cross over to Bosnia, theirs come here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This may be a relationship to some other countries, etc. Would a non-signing of such an agreement affect the Croatian economy? I say you wouldn't. Why shouldn't I? Now I'm just going to give you one piece of information that the total trade between Croatia and Slovenia in 2004 amounted to $179 million, and we welcomed the end of 2008. Only a little billion 780 million was in 2004, and at the end of 2008, we welcomed the trade in both directions of $2 billion, $810 million. So plus one billion dollars. It is certain that all this time since 2001, we have had more Slovenian guests on our sea every year, as were supposed skiers, such as Croatian tourists, going to their spas or their mountains. Last time I mentioned one conversation with President Tudjman, back in '93. when he told me about it, in his office, why don't you ever say that the Slovenians took 15 villages from us. And I said no, Mr. President, according to church records, it's about 25 villages. And he said like this, he started banging on the table, that, that, that. But I said don't forget, Mr. President, that at the same time we also received the Catastrian municipality of Rupa, and the Catastrian municipality of Pasjak, which until then were part of the then Socialist Republic of Slovenia. Bakaric, Cardellj, they've been handing out meters per meter, and here I have the impression that we're giving them everything without them giving us anything in return. Mr. Dr. Davor Vidas in "Evening List", which I must quote, 9.11. says whether Croatia will lose part of its territory in the arbitration process, it remains uncertain, he says. It will depend on her arguments and the jury's trial. However, if it would agree to ratify an arbitration agreement that would be interpreted as interpreting that representatives of the European Commission, other than technically creating a list of arbitarians still name candidates on that list, it would put itself in an unequal position. And one country can't do that. Therefore, the reflection of Article 2 of the arbitration agreement is much more than the linguistic debate, etc., it is fundamental in nature, before it can be debated at all. When the agreement here today is so good for the Republic of Croatia, why would the Republic of Croatia not decide on the agreement or decide on a referendum? So we have a 27.12. Presidential election. With one blow, at no cost, we can tell the people to kill two flies. Why don't we go to the referendum? Why? Because in Slovenia, you see for yourself, the referendum will certainly pass, and what the mood of the Croatian public in Croatia is that referendum is difficult to obtain from the Croatian public court. That is why the Slovenians are going to the referendum because they are convinced of the success and they want to confirm with this success the credibility of their own policy, and we have the impression that we are losing this agreement and that we simply want to ratify it in this Parliament, and we do not want to leave the decision to the Croatian citizens. Croatian politicians, as for the concept of some democratic values, I dare say they are one spear above Slovenians. Am I as Eurosceptic as someone here pointed out or perhaps the prime minister herself said? Not for me, but that if we go as soon as possible to the European Union, we will withdraw 3 and a half billion euros or 26 billion kuna in the first two years. That in the first two years, we're gonna pull 3 and a half billion euros, so that's just a story for naives. That money should be earned first. Bulgaria withdrew 6m euros in the first year. In the second year, one major Bulgaria withdraws 420m euros from all these European funds. So money should be earned. Europe's condition for us to even participate in all this is to reduce incentives for shipbuilding. What's going to happen to the shipbuilding, I don't know, but I do know that the Oilman will survive. The reduction of incentives for peasants, the introduction of support in this country exceeds 3% of gross social product, or around 10 billion kunas to 0.8%, as is the case in the new member states of the European Union, and similar. The truth is, if we get those 3 and a half billion euros in the first two years, that's about 8% of gross social product. This is 20% of the Republic of Croatia's budget. It is about 3, 4, almost four times more than the City of Zagreb budget. But on the other hand, we must also tell the Croatian public that only in 2020, which they will say in 10 years, agriculture should get 750 million euros, and that is almost 50% less than it is in the budget today. Of the 4 and a half billion euros to go towards Croatia, 2.4 is going for sustainable development, to preserve the environment of 680, 170m euros to strengthen human rights, 120m euros to strengthen administration, 202 for compensations, etc., etc. But I repeat once again that money should be earned. I'm going back to 2001. Personally, with Mr. Dean Fattyuh, I didn't see a map of the border at sea at the time, distracting Racan from going around Joras' house. It's a lie, and that's what I'm going to say, that we also had that Racan-Drnovsek agreement, based on which the other side was being concessiond over 167 square miles of Croatian territorial waters to be in Europe. I'm going to say once again, there's a much bigger problem than Power is corruption, this relationship to The Hague, war crimes, philistine, etc. If politics had been conducted in Croatia as in Istria, we might not have known already in the European Union. What is important is to mention, these are the opportunities in the Croatian economy. So if we solve the crisis, public spending, this personal consumption, so this economy will certainly follow these trends that I mentioned. So a mutual exchange of 200, 300 million dollars each year more. Clearly today the problem in us as in Slovenia is purchasing power. Seven, eight days ago, I was talking for example. with the first men from Mercator, we happened to meet, and I asked them, "Well well tell me how many of your Slovenian goods are in the Mercator in the Republic?" And they said, "Well, you won't believe it, not 12 anymore, or 13%." There are about 60% of Croatian goods in Mercator, 25% from the Eu, more in Slovenia's Mercator than in some of our chains, supermercators or what is called markets, which are funded by some presidential candidates, which is simply seen in these advertising sites etc. And that might also be important to mention. Therefore, I will once again say there must be no exception to Slovenia, Slovenian products, Slovenian tourists, Slovenian investments in Croatia or vice versa. Our products in Slovenia, when we go there, I don't know about spas or skiing if we can do it in due time, but also Slovenian politics must understand that it can't press the Republic with its performance over and over again without giving us back what's ours. Whether it's about St. Gera, whether it's about saving in the Ljubljanska Banka, they're always just re-tegrating the border crossings down in Istria. What else do you say? They have not built or modernised any roads over the past 20 years towards Buzet, according to Bujam, Umag or Rijeka or any other Croatian region. What else do you say? God forbid they normalize those relationships as soon as possible. That these relations between Croatia and Slovenia were the same as they were until the 1990s. A year. We're alone, together we're actually performing in the fight for independence in the '90s. and in that national rebirth before the war and during World War II at NOB, etc. We're the closest neighbors, but I don't think any political issue is being resolved by the concessions, and I'm afraid that's how it ends up. So, what else do you say? I personally won't vote for that agreement, I'm afraid we'll lose ours. The Slovenians are guaranteed touch, this union, here I first mentioned it here, with open waters. We will get our land, and Slovenians will get our seas. That's the point of this agreement. Life goes on, well, let's just go through all this just to be interhuman, international, border relations, at least the way they were until the '90s. years and that as soon as possible, they were removed, clearly respecting the boundaries as we respected them in the '90s. A year. I don't trust strangers or foreign politicians anymore than Croatian politicians, but in the end, I don't reflect on anyone here, the greatest harm can be done to us by Croatian politicians. So all in all, I personally live along this border, I live in Istria, I have to go back home, and believe me that I am far more personally involved in this case than anyone from Sinj, Slavonski Brod, Zagreb or someone else at the end of the Republic of Croatia, although I understand that when it comes to national interest everyone here in this House is in the same position.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42715	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42716	I wanted to, excuse Mr. President and gentlemen of the Government, Madam Prime Minister, fellow MPs and fellow MPs, I wanted to raise the plate with the correction of Mr. Cain's incorrect quote several times, but now that I'm behind the pay phone, I'm going to say I can't, I'm denying him the right to speak of us from Slavonski Brod as he said, or from Slavonia and Baranja we're not interested in this question, although we have no morals. In the last debate 15, 20 days ago, that someone does not hold my very word exactly, I said that the HDSSB cannot be or vote in favour of such a proposal for the Law on Confirmation of an arbitration agreement between Slovenia and Croatia. And I say it again. For many, many reasons. Today, in the streets of cities and places of the Republic of Croatia, people are signing a petition on a referendum. Do we see that at all? Is that what we're talking about? A moment ago, when I came to the Parliament, I was at this booth where it was signed, to say mass petitions against this agreement. Are we here as parliamentary representatives against the opinion of our people? Or do we have to be their representatives, what do we call ourselves? Do we express the will of our constituents? A moment ago, Mr Milanovic spoke here, who was constructively restrained last time, and now he's constructively, I don't know what it's called, which 15 days ago when he was constructively restrained along with the entire SDP, said that the agreement was a conspiracy, and we can't agree to that. The agreement is a conspiracy. Has anything changed in this agreement to change your mind today? It's not. Don't throw it away, please. So, we see and it is certain that from the same point of view that the two-thirds majority in the Croatian Parliament will vote, I would also say in my opinion, however anyone assesses, a shameful agreement arising from a weakly active, incompetent negotiating and negotiating process, Croatian negotiators with the European Union and the Republic of Slovenia. Why is our position in these negotiations the way it is? The government of the Republic of Croatia is burdened with all those media processed, and those who have not yet been processed by corruption affairs have no possibility of taking action, there is no possibility of defending a decent Croatian approach in these negotiations. The European Union, as well as Slovenia can be said in a loud and clear way, and first of all Slovenia has been pressing, a permanent pressuring that in our heads for these eight, nine years as far as this problem has been put before the Croatian public, before the Croatian government, before us here, has already achieved such a state of consciousness that this is what I am thinking about, so we are well going to the European Union, we are good neighbours, so why don't we give or agree to a territorial concession to the Republic of Slovenia. We're so tired of thinking about it, we're just tired. Many have become tired of finding a way to solve the Slovenian problem. That's not our problem. That's the Slovenian problem. And how to resolve it and how to help them and to block negotiations with the European Union along the way. Just mentioning 3.5 billion euros between lines says a lot. East Germany when it was united with its Western, Western German queen in Germany, an 11 billion-euro agreement was discussed between the lines. Here's Mr. Mimica with his head. Alaska was sold for a bag of gold dollars. In Croatian history we have very, very ugly, and almost no beautiful example, where Croatia has speculated with its neighbours. One of the older is the Croatian-Hungarian settlement in 1868, the other are the Roman Agreements in '41. years negotiated or negotiated in Ljubljana and signed in Rome. Interestingly, in Ljubljana there were negotiations or Leibach at the time. '45. The year is in agreement to say communist leaders lost Srijem and Boka Kotorska and here we are in 2009, 2010 on our way to lose some of the territorial sea. It is important to note when we talk about that this is not a border agreement, but an arbitration agreement. It's like he's saying, there's a law here on milk and milk processing, not cheese. So, as a consequence of arbitration, it is clearly written in Article 3.B, which is a combination of Slovenia with the open sea, this famous "junction" or how you want a stick or I don't know how it all works. When you look at the cards that Honorary Professor Rudolph drew and drawn, then it is clear that Slovenia will get the right in this agreement and in the following stages on the epicontinental belt, which will then be combined with this stick, junction, contact, connection, etc. is about 350 square kilometers of sea surface. And in the latitude, that belt goes up somewhere in the height of Vrsar. Therefore, I say again, the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja cannot possibly accept as a party that has Croatian representatives, cannot accept such a proposal for an agreement. I'm not going to mention the name, but to the president of the SDP, he's talking best about what's really going on. International law and the Convention on the Law of the Sea, according to Presidential candidate Hebrang at last session of the Assembly, says that the two states that share the Gulf of the Sea share the bay with half or the border line that runs half of that bay. However, it is left out to say that this is what it says, unless the two states agree differently. And they made a different arrangement. Yeah. Therefore, I do not understand why such a formulation of the Law on the Convention of the Sea has been silenced. And I don't understand why it's three months, so don't hold my word, keep the draft agreement or the proposal for an agreement, if it's so clear and clear, if Croatia doesn't lose anything and there's no risk of losing, why was he in secret? I know it's some kind of quiet diplomacy, etc. but Croatia has not achieved anything with this silent diplomacy. It remains for that arbitration to be resolved in its own way, by its vision and by St. Ger and all other controversial, disputed points and on the mainland. We don't have any promises that anything on land will be as different as my predecessor Mr. Cain said. And in the extremity of both St. Gera and a number of other disputed points on land. Because it is defined that the arbitration panel, the court, is considering the borders between Croatia and Slovenia and on land and at sea. Therefore, HDSSB can also not agree to such a final act that within 15 days, the Croatian Parliament assumes on itself, not on itself, what is in the contacts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the prime minister with the prime minister of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So it's a transfer of hot potatoes to the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia. And why the citizens of the Republic of Croatia do not have the right and why they are not offered the right to their opinion because we are elected from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The citizens of the Republic of Croatia are not stupid. They listen to it and follow it every day. They know for sure, they're also informed and directed, so let's let them decide. If this is what the Slovenians are doing, that is why Croatian citizens do not have the right to any referendum either advisory or otherwise, or obliging Croatian citizens to decide on it. That would relieve Mrs. Prime Minister and myself, and us parliamentary deputies. They would be able to get a clear opinion of the Croatian people and the opinion of Croatian citizens. And if most people thought like this about how I think it would not slow down, it would significantly slow Croatia's path to the European Union. And as someone said there's no honey and milk waiting for us either. And these 3.5 billion you spoke of as some kind of carrot offered to Croatia for war is a carrot chopped up that is very questionable and very questionable quality when we know that Croatia's taxes are 500m euros per year when it enters the European Union. And that's what to say. So in three years, Croatia will pay EU membership a billion and a half euros. And 3 billion euros are offered, but you know how they go along with the projects, along with everyone else who goes. That's why I think you gentlemen think carefully about each and every one of you, meeting with your conscience because here the prime minister said it was a historic decision, and I quote, and you're actually in some way and the historical person who's going to decide on this. That is why, and because of the history of the HDSSB club, it has again asked for a name or person's statement and vote in the Croatian Assembly of the HDSSB Club and here our present two representatives will be against this agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42717	Ladies and gentlemen, the delegation of the Committee on Culture of the Parliament of the Islamic Republic of Iran is on the visit to the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's say hello. Thank you. [[Applause]] One correction, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42718	counterpart Grubisic said of the northern part of Croatia that the disputed border is in Prekmurje. A colleague is not in Prekmurje but in Međimurje, and that part of the territory on the left bank of Mura is not Prekmurje but Međimurje. And secondly, you said that citizens are signing a petition for a referendum. Not my colleague Boro. The citizens' initiative "The Sea is the mainland" organises the signing of requests to the Croatian Assembly for the opening of referendums in accordance with the Constitution and the Law on Referendum. The request for a referendum and petition are two big things different, and when we talk about it, at least in Parliament, we have to be precise, and probably because the president of this citizens' initiative, Mr Knezovic, came before the Council this morning with a lit candle, was the reason why the police wanted him arrested in front of the Parliament. Fortunately, she prevailed at the last minute of her mind, so he was released.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42719	HNS representative club Mrs. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42720	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Madam Prime Minister with ministers, colleagues and colleagues. This agreement that we need to decide today is partly a political and partly legal document, it's true. The reason for this is that the problem we have faced is partly political and partly legal, and we cannot solve it, but rather consider and face both aspects of it. In this House, we had some informational discussions about the exact same text a short time ago. In that text I said and then, I'm going to repeat today on behalf of the HNS Club three are key points. The first is the duties of the arbitration court and as they are determined. The second is the choice of judges and the way to draw up the list from which the arbitrationists will be elected. And the third is the relationship between the time when it will be published or the result of arbitration and Croatia's entry into the European Union. We agreed that as the task of the arbitration tribunal concerns and that is also stated in this Agreement. He's got three assignments. One is to establish a border on land and sea based on international law. The second is to determine the link or touch of Slovenian territorial waters to the open sea based on international law, the principle of justice and good neighbourly relations. The third is to establish a regime for the use of relevant marine areas on the basis of international law, the principle of justice and good neighbourly relations. So three tasks of which one is determined in one way or completed in one way and the other two in another way. That's what we consider a favourable element. In fact, the fact is that the border is determined solely by the basis of international law. We said that just in this dimension, this agreement contains a certain risk, and that's still true. This agreement contains a certain risk, for the reason that, in principle, the issue of land and sea borders can be resolved in three ways. There is one direct touch between the Slovenian territorial seas and international waters, which is most unfavourable for us. The second is through some kind of joint administration or common jurisdiction over a particular area. And third, indirect or indirect, so on the basis of different rights of contact between Slovenian territorial waters and the international sea. Of course there's a risk. The risk should be assessed, looked into our eyes and seen what is worth it here, which is on the side of the risk, which is on the side of advantage and benefits. So of the three possible ways in which the issue of the border can be solved, there is one option that absolutely does not suit us. On the other hand, the basis of this agreement is that Croatia is achieving two goals. One thing is to deblock and separate negotiations from resolving the issue of the border. And the second is to establish a way to address the issue of the border in one way that this problem, which should no longer be returned to the agenda of our Parliament or our political debate. It has been said that Slovenia is in favour of this problem, and in the way it has negotiated and negotiated how it will be dealt with has benefited its membership in the European Union, and membership in the European Union has helped Slovenia. That's also true. This means that Slovenia has also benefited from the fact that it is a member of the European Union. And I think it is important for us to understand to what extent, even in such cases, Croatia will benefit from its membership in the European Union. And to what extent it is for Croatia, not only in economic terms, but also in the political sense, membership in the European Union is of benefit. We at the HNS club believe that instead of condemning Croatia to be permanently in the position of the one who is surprised and offended by the different decisions made in other places without us, without our participation and without being able to influence those decisions, because we do not have the opportunity to report there, because we do not have the opportunity to defend our interests there, and as is known, the most dangerous thing is when you are not sitting at the table at which you are being decided. So in order to prevent future situations in which we will be decided without us, it is Croatian interest to realise our membership in the European Union at the moment when we are really this close. Will someone give us something, whether now or not, whenever we are a member of the European Union? He won't. Even when we are a member of the European Union, it is not possible for anyone to give us anything, for which we ourselves are not able to fight. The only thing the European Union means is a wider area of opportunity. So as a member of the European Union, we will have more things to fight for, we will have a wider area and influence, only potential, just as much as we are able, and a wider area of use of different opportunities, of course, only as much as we are able. No one else, not now, nor when we are a member of the European Union will automatically donate any of this to Croatia. So the truth is, about our abilities at this point, and in all future moments if we succeed in this process, it will depend on us. What changed since the last debate we had on this document in this House, to this day? The text hasn't changed a thing. The talks and representatives of the government and the SDP president, Mr Milanovic, changed, and my talks with different EU officials yesterday. There has been a change of awareness of the importance of drawing up a list of arbitration judges, so the second topic of this Agreement, the importance of the criteria for drawing up and the list, and the European Parliament, and the European Commission, and the new Presidency on which yesterday has been decided, the European Council, should take into account the way and criteria by which judges are elected. The whole story of us having to trust someone, or to accept that it's something that in itself will be good and just, of course it doesn't stand and it's a story that's not simply politically founded. It is a political body that will draw up that list, and that is why political action is a key moment. And you shouldn't pretend that it doesn't exist, because it's a fact. And therefore political intervention, and talks with representatives and the Commission and the European Council and the European Parliament make sense. We need to look for our allies in these structures, we need to market people who will understand why it is important that on the list chosen by the arbiters be people who have experience in international arbitration, who have experience in making court decisions, not people who are primarily legally educated, but politicians. Because it is the basis for making a decision that we think is just and that we consider rational, but it will not happen on its own. It will happen to the extent that we are able in these structures to recognise the importance of such a decision and the importance of such criteria. It has been reiterated that the selection criteria, i.e. for drawing up a list and putting people on that list, which will be chosen by judges of the arbitration panel, should be that they are impartial, independent and professional, qualified. It could mean anything. What that will mean exactly depends on whether we have a common, whether individual, nevertheless, political intervention and engagement. On the creation of a public opinion within the European Parliament, on the creation of an atmosphere within Parliament and within the Commission and within the Presidency of the European Council. It is crucial that they be people with court experience and experience in international arbitration. Our future in such an institution as the EU will have it as its permanent escort. We will always be in the future because it is a way of working in such a kind of institution, we have to look for allies, we have to look for people who will understand why we advocate and understand why it is important to support it. It has therefore changed that this time, by not wanting to raise a common awareness within the European institutions, the importance of these criteria and this is not the end of the business. This will require permanent work until the final decision of arbitration. So even after, I would say especially after we join the EU. We are currently ahead of a decision that will set the political position of Croatia to a large extent in the region first and then in the EU. Whether Croatia can take advantage of its chance as a leader in the region in European reforms depends largely on this decision. Could we have solved this problem sooner? We could have. Was the current coalition in power against getting rid of it earlier? She was. Does that mean we have to repeat bad decisions and mistakes from before? It doesn't. HNS won't, he doesn't want that mistake to happen again, we didn't do it then, but he doesn't want the mistake to be repeated years ago, he doesn't want that mistake repeated in different forms in the early 2000s. HNS wants Croatia to get and take this chance, to start its development towards an influential, civilized European country with a lasting guarantee of the stability of its institutions and with a permanent chance of becoming not poor but a medium-developed European country. And for that reason, the HNS will support the ratification of this agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42721	Thank you. At 10.56, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. SDSS representative club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42722	Mr. Vice President, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. What the SDSS Club had to say about this agreement said during the last debate, and we would not want to repeat what we had already said because it was difficult for us to add anything. What we'd like to say today is actually two things. First, the issue of the importance of the external borders of each country and then the importance of the borders of the Republic of Croatia. The second issue of internal borders that are important for each country should also be important for Croatia. As far as the external borders are concerned, we of the SDSS believe that this arbitration agreement is finally heading towards finding a solution for an important segment, but one segment of Croatian state territory and its borders towards a neighbour. And we have defined ourselves as one of the mechanisms that can help to solve this border dispute, which is arbitration. The mechanism currently uses dozens of countries in the world on marine, land and other issues. And it is indeed one of the widespread and important instruments available to countries to strengthen good neighbourly relations and functions that borders have, which is not to create enmity but to create friendship. Not to interfere, but to encourage cooperation. It's not that there's trouble about whether another country is going to show up, it's that it's going to spread some kind of pleasure because it's going to get another neighbor. And this arbitration agreement, as it is made up of, with risks that exist in it as there are in most arbitration agreements, is good and for this reason will be supported by the SDSS club. They will support it because it is also an opportunity for Croatia to affirm itself in international traffic, through such mechanisms. Because it certainly will not be affirmed by shouting and noise, but it will be affirmed if it strengthens international order, international instruments to strengthen interstate order and relations between states. And that's an opportunity. And we certainly need to take advantage of that opportunity. As far as internal borders are concerned, I think it's time that it's finally systematic and with full awareness we start talking about what our internal borders are, and unfortunately there are many. And they're much harder than this line we're going to solve by arbitration agreement. We will not have for them those who will be able to help us, and we will not have those outside of us who will be able to help us to get rid of them. The first question is, when it comes to Croatia, where are the limits of intolerance? So, as we need to know where our external borders are, so we need to know how to answer a question like this. Where are our limits of intolerance? Where are the weaknesses of this society to develop brotherhood among its citizens as a presumption of freedom from division of ethnic, religious political? For 20 years of independence, we still suffer from these still deep non-productive and for a large number of citizens of harmful borders. What arbitration agreement is that going to solve? What valid documents will solve this? And what is this force that needs to be devoted to removing that kind of limit? Second question. Where are the limits of the weakness of public institutions and public institutions, which provide services in health, science and education? Where are those boundaries? And how long will we be tolerated towards the weakness of public institutions and calls on those who do business in public institutions and public professions. How long will it be irrelevant that one is a doctor, how long will it be irrelevant that one is a scientist, how long will it be irrelevant that one is a teacher and a teacher, if there is no money, he, or the state for these jobs to be done? And how long are we going to consider that kind of limit normal? In the end, where are the limits of corruption in this society? How long does it take to realize that the limits of corruption in Croatia are such, that they are almost limitless? That what goes into corrupt channels and corrupt mechanisms represents almost annual budget deficits. And are we going to pay adequate attention to those limits? And are we going to devote ourselves to that kind of limit as something that threatens not only the state budget but also the security of the state? Where are the borrowing limits for colleagues and colleagues, both external and internal? If Croatia currently has a debt that is equal to the gross social product, then the question is, isn't that the limit that can no longer be crossed? Isn't that the limit to which we have to commit and which we have to take as an imperative of our political action to get that line down, down, and finally ask the question of what is the purpose of this borrowing? If the purpose of this borrowing is to ask the last question, which is where are the boundaries of production of unemployment and unemployment? If we are in debt so as to have more and more unemployed people, if we are in debt so that we have more and more of those who remain without minimum labour rights such as regular wages, such as regular payment of contributions, for health care, for retirement, then the question is asked, and where is this limit? And is this border exactly like that for us sitting here, dealing with matters of public interest, to us completely uninteresting? At the end of our colleague and colleague, as we all know from the moment it occurs to the moment it exists, we have to deal with our borders. But if it deals with its borders, so as to neglect its internal borders and if it does not resolve its internal borders, then of course its ability, its capacity, to defend, protect, maintain and prosper from having its external borders, unfortunately it will not be met. And for this reason, I will repeat once again, this arbitration agreement is good, not only gives us the opportunity to confirm, solidify on the basis of a good international instrument and an external Croatian border, but it gives us the opportunity to focus on how to free ourselves from the borders that exist within our country and within our society. And to dedicate ourselves to them in the way that people on different occasions had rights, to devote themselves to the external borders. And to us, it seems to me, there is no sacred duty today, but to devote itself to these very limits that I mentioned through these five questions. For this reason, in this faith, with such an intention, I repeat once again the SDSS Club will support this arbitration agreement and address these issues that I have raised here in short form, but I do not believe it is important for today's citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42723	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative and Vice President Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42724	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the Honorable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. On 25 June 1991, when the Croatian Parliament in this Assembly made a declaration and a constitutional decision on Croatia's sovereignty and independence, and when the Slovenian Parliament adopted the Slovenian Charter on the sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Slovenia on that same day, both states jointly concluded that their borders were those which were the new state borders, those which were the borders of the former republican borders. And Badinter's commission confirmed this principle that the borders between the former Yugoslav republics, the republican borders, have become state borders, but these borders have not been fully and fully regulated, have not been fully established. And already in 92, 93, there was a opposition in establishing borders both at sea and on land between Croatia and Slovenia. The genealogy of the clarification and determination of the border between Croatia and Slovenia and on the sea and on land has had more phases, it has had its ups and downs. Both sides were very close at certain times but there was always one blockade and the end of border issues, the demarcation. Croatia has repeatedly insisted that borders on both the sea and the mainland be established by the disputed borders, established on the basis of international law and established by them in the absence of the agreement as an instance of the international judicial body, the international court, international arbitration. And you see, always one step at a time to reach this agreement between the two countries, between the two countries to regulate the borders on the sea and land on the basis of international law, to regulate and determine the international court and the international judicial authority has always, at the last moment before the signing of such an agreement, come under a strong egotistical pressure coming from a neighbouring country with their maximumistic demands, not to sign such an agreement. The agreement was initialled by Drnovšek-Racan, and there the first Racan tried in vain to seek as a last resort to one territorial concession to meet and resolve all these requirements. He was not supported and this paraphrased agreement never came into follow-up procedure. After that, agreements and talks followed to resolve the border issue and two subcommittees were appointed, the one that actually resolved 95.96% of the entire land border. The Janša-Sanader agreement was headed by Bled that, on the basis of international law, it would be entrusted to the international judicial body, but again under pressure from certain Slovenian circles and Janša withdrew and denied his own statement that he had made an oral arrangement that both countries, that the issue would be resolved before the International Court of Justice or before the international arbitration body. After that, there was a blockade by Slovenia of our accession negotiations and the prime minister set out to seek a way out. One exit was found and now this agreement is ratified before the Croatian Parliament to respond to the challenge of whether this exit is in line with Croatian national and state interests, whether it is in line with the best intentions and intentions, and the consequences for Croatian national interests. Ladies and gentlemen, the key, focal question, the question of all questions and the answer to all the questions concerning how and how to resolve and determine the border line on land and at sea. What right will be applicable to establishing the limit and which body will be appropriate to establish that limit on land and sea. The arbitration agreement between Croatia and Slovenia states clearly in Article 3(1)(a) and Article 4(1): "The course of the border on land and sea will be established in accordance with Article 4(1) on the basis of the principles and rules of international law.". This is, in my opinion, the key and most important question that the flow of the sea and land border will be established on the basis of the principles and rules of international law. And what does international law say? The Convention on the Law of the Sea is relevant. Article 15 of the Convention states that when setting the limit, regulating the bay border, this is resolved at sea with the equities theory, so that the border line goes in the middle of the bay. It is only exceptional that adjustments may be made in accordance with the principle set out in Article 15 of the International Convention on the Law of the Sea of the United Nations in order for historical and other reasons to be corrected. In any form and in any interpretation of international law, Article 15. The International Convention on the Law of the Sea and other relevant relevant provisions on this issue of international law or international convention is not and is not possible for the border of the sea between Croatia and Slovenia to be established in a way that would deprive Croatia of part of the Croatian territorial sea. And Prof. Vidas, a prominent expert from the Norwegian Institute for Sea Law, says the following, in an interview these days, only a harsh violation of international law, when these arbitrationists, international arbitrationists, and by way of derogation from international law would violate a serious international law, what would happen in some blackest scenario, in order to take away part of Croatia's arbitration decision, would take away part of its territory. So, it's just a rude violation of international law. I cannot believe that the international recognition of the experts for which we have received a guarantee from the President of the European Commission, Mr Barroso, on the basis of a letter sent by the Prime Minister, Mrs Kosor on November 5th and where her envoys, where the President of the European Commission Barroso found, was there and Mrs Pusic was on the talks, was also a fellow Milanovic, and they were given guarantees and guarantees that these arbiters would be impartial, that they would be independent, that they would be expert, that they would be those three criteria, those three criteria on which the list would be based, to establish the list of arbitration, but that they would be in agreement on both sides and on the basis of consultations both Croatia and Slovenia. To make in the final... and if no agreement has been reached, the President of the International Court of Justice has established that list of arbitarians. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's no reason to believe or not to believe that it's going to be the appointed arbitration team that's going to be both unprofessional and unprofessional, and unobstructed and biased and addictive. So I'm going to have all the worst references to make this decision. However, all arguments and all reasons state that these arbitration agreements will be managed on the basis of the principle of international law and rules of international law, which is both in Article 3(3) and in Article 4 of the arbitration agreement and headed between the Governments of Croatia and Slovenia. Therefore, taking this key and focal question and the answer to the question whether the border flow on land and sea will be resolved on the basis of international law and international law rules and giving a confirmed answer to this question, I think it is a risk for one who is said to be able to resolve such arbitration in order to leave part of Croatia's state territory to Slovenia minimally and that all reasons and arguments... that this border at sea and on land will be based on international law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this statement, signed by the President of the Government of Ms Kosor, which was also introduced to the representatives of the United States and the European Commission, according to which nothing will be considered to be Croatia's consent to territorial concessions, has a great political weight and therefore is one additional reason for this agreement to be ratified. This agreement is in Croatia's best national and state interest. This agreement is not trade in Croatian territory to join the European Union. This agreement, its ratification in the Croatian Parliament, is a proof of the maturity and political responsibility of the Croatian Parliament. This agreement is a strong international legitimacy of the Republic of Croatia to achieve its vital national, strategic, foreign policy objectives of which the entry into the North Atlantic Alliance is achieved and to achieve and achieve this other strategic foreign policy objective of the entry of the Republic, the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. And therefore, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, aware of its own political and historical responsibilities, will vote in favour of ratification of this agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42725	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42726	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the Honorable Minister, the State Secretary. We at the Croatian Peasant Party Club understand this historic moment, the moment we are in. We understand the importance of these decisions, and we see that the talks were long and difficult. Despite all the difficulties, however, this decision has been made that will not be for us and must not be at the expense of the Republic of Croatia, but also in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. For us, this is a long and difficult time, behind us. Today we make a decision that determines and affects our future, the future of the Republic of Croatia. The negotiation process points to the application of the principle of good lord and good protection of the interest of the Republic of Croatia, which ultimately resulted in this agreement, but also in the knowledge of the international public that the Republic of Croatia is a serious and correct partner in international relations. We believe that today we are taking a step forward towards our common objective, a goal that we call a continuation of negotiations to join the EU. It is good that we were able to separate the negotiations from solving border problems with Slovenia. We are convinced that this solution will allow for further development of good neighbourly relations with the Republic of Slovenia. The debate extends a certain dose and tells of the amount of risk but it is true that when we listen to some of our experts, their statements suggest the possibility that the Republic of Croatia will lose some of its territory against which we are all without a reserve. But why are the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia also against the agreement, namely to express a certain reserve and to worry about the content of this agreement? That fear proves that the risk exists, but that we are on a good path and that the risks are minimal. Part of the uncertainty we believe has been solved by solving the problem of the composition of the arbitration court. Recognising international experts of international law, we believe that, on these grounds of international law, the arbitration court will make its decisions impartially and justly. We hope that these decisions will drive you to fear with us and with the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and will ensure further construction of good neighbourly relations. There is an opportunity ahead of us, an opportunity we must not miss and the opportunity we create, which we build, an opportunity to clean up problems on the road to EU entry. I am clearly not going to repeat here the issues that talk about the economic effects and their importance as well as the importance of lobbying or looking for friends in the EU. What I'm going to remind you of, and that's our last debate here, is that just when we talked about creating this agreement we were talking about creating fog, about acid turkeys, about the geese in the fog, about today's decision, we're going to break down the fog. We are not dealing with the past, we are going through a path that leads to the EU and we are ensuring development and we are opening up a perspective of good relations with EU countries. From all this we see that the well-protected interests of the Republic of Croatia and the HSS are supported by the proposal for this Law to confirm the arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42727	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Dragutin Lesar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42728	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I will also address Mrs Kosor as Prime Minister and HDZ President. Why didn't the Government propose a referendum to Parliament? Why are you afraid of the will of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? Why does the Slovenian Government ask its citizens about this agreement and we don't? All those who spoke about it, from the President of the Republic to this debate in Parliament, have mentioned that the risk with which we are entering this arbitration dispute is minimal. So if it is even the most minimal, isn't it a subject or an opportunity for citizens to take that risk through referendums? This arbitration agreement is a de facto border contract, the product of arbitration will be the limit and therefore I think it is actually a document replacing the border contract. Secondly, the citizens' initiative that officially reported the process of collecting 500 thousand signatures for calling the referendum is working on it and instead of giving them these 15 days by law, in the midst of their activities in the Assembly, we ratify or want to ratify this law. Why, at least, were we not so polite and waited for those 15 days to pass and see if they could collect the necessary number of signatures that the Assembly would commit to calling a referendum? This is more clear now that the Republic of Slovenia will not make ratification of the agreement until the end of December as it was written, that is, as it states in it and as agreed. If the Republic of Slovenia will not ratify by the end of December, why must we hurry? It's their right. Do you think you'd lose your credibility as Prime Minister and Government's president in general to ask the citizens a question? To lose a reputation? They'd get the reputation and trust of the citizens. And no one would say that you are afraid and that you are hiding behind the citizens' decision, even as much as the reputation of a Slovenian colleague is, that's how you would grow up in a second position. There is a provision in Article 5 of the Agreement that I thought Slovenia insisted on all the time to hide some of its documents. It's that provision that says that no document was produced after June 25, '91. It has no legal effect, but I have now realized that this provision of the agreement is not intended and invalidated by Slovenia's documents but by its own. In 1998, at the time of the opening of the fisheries negotiations, the Republic of Slovenia gave as a negotiating position and signed its territorial sea with the definition that they had 45 km of coast, 180 square km of territorial sea, that their fishing area was limited by 12 nautical miles from the coast and gave a map on the basis of 1 to 5 thousand later reduced, on which not only the border lines were established but also the angles entered, as the borders of the territorial sea of the Republic of Slovenia. This map was important and therefore the provision of the agreement to documents after '91. They're not worth it because this was a noose around Slovenia's neck. If 3 arbiters from the list to be made by the European Commission do not agree who will appoint the arbitres? President of the International Court of Justice in The Hague. I get the circumstances he's Japanese, only one historical dyspression. After World War I during the Versailles negotiations, Hungary was entitled to Međimurje. At the time, negotiators in Versailles, which ended with the Triann Treaty, sent the international five-member arbitration commission to Hungary to Međimurje to resolve the requirements. Which included one Bulgarian, Serbian, English, French and Japanese. They were followed by translators in Croatian and Hungarian. This Japanese man heard people singing in a village and asked a Hungarian translator to translate a song for him. And he said he didn't understand. Then he asked the Croatian translator what this sad song was singing about. And he translated it. And then this Japanese guy asked if the songs of that people who live here exist somewhere written down. And then Dr. Ivan Novak said that there was a collection of Međimurje folk drinkers, Dr. Žganec... And they took that book to Versailles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Međimurje folk song and a report by the five-member international commission bear fruit that Međimurje then belonged to Croatia. The President of the International Court of Justice, who will clearly determine three arbiters, the Japanese Mr. Ouda, I want to believe that and after 89 years, this fact will go in favor of Međimurje. Because I remind you that the longest territorial dispute in the mileage of the border and on the surface of the country is not the Savadria Wave, not St. Gera, but the territory of Međimurje. And that's why, and that's why, and the historical experiences, we're sensitive to every attempt at pretentiousness on Međimurje soil. I therefore believe that a referendum should be held in the Republic of Croatia. And besides, my obligation is as a parliamentary representative, to respect the will and opinion of 45% of the country's surveyed citizens who said they would go to the referendum and not support this agreement. Given that the referendum will not be just because HDZ does not want it, but the strongest opposition party does not want a referendum, I will not, I will not, and I cannot vote in favour of this agreement. So that again some journalistic commentators of all of us who will vote against, are calling again for the issue of national interests, because we are therefore preventing Croatia from entering the European Union. And who is more invited than forming national interests than citizens in a referendum? Who is more invited to take this and the minimum risk to themselves than the citizens in the referendum? Any difficult political decision falls precisely on the burden of the political elite and making difficult decisions. Mrs. Kosor often says that she had to make a lot of unpopular and difficult decisions in a short time. This is one of those. But this is a topic, this is a question and a matter that the Constitution could see the subject of a referendum. Everything you've decided now, you've had to decide as Prime Minister and Government as a whole. You could have asked the citizens about this. You're not. And the final question. What if in Slovenia the advisory referendum says no? Ollie Rehn or some other renaissance will write the third version of the agreement that you will again represent in the Assembly as the best variant with minimal risk. The referendum, the only direct democracy in such matters in the democratic state, must be the way to decide.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42729	Thank you. Mr. Representative Sylavono Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42730	Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, Mr. Minister and Secretary of State. So it seems that today the Croatian Parliament will adopt the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement or ratify an arbitration agreement with the Republic of Slovenia. I personally and in the name of the Croatian Retired Party doubt whether we really have a dispute over borders. Because as far as I know, we haven't asked for anything in all these 18 years from Slovenian territory. But we didn't ask for anything from Slovenian territory. And I find it very strange that we sign the arbitration dispute where we're not with anyone in the dispute. We just say it's ours and we use it. And what should be said is that people on both sides of the border are and have to be friends and have to cooperate because they are connected by family ties, cultural ties and history and everything else. And that's good and that's good. But we have to be neighbours with Slovenia, we can be trading partners. But the aprior state doesn't have to be friends, because their relationships define their interests. So the country's relations are a shrew, that is, the satisfaction of their individual interests. For the past 18 years, Slovenia has led the European Union, including us, to deal only with the achievement of Slovenian national interest. Why she got us involved, because it's of vital interest to them. Because it's the former Yugoslav Sea, and what's former Yugoslav is prey and it needs to be shared. How do you divide it? Not according to international law, but a brotherly arrangement. Because they've always had all the rights in our mutual relations, because it's actually all Slovenian, but these amazing Balkan Croats have taken this for their own as mud in the EU. Because Croatia or as they say, you Croatia have a lot of seas, so what gives you little seas to us. It means nothing to you, and it's a question of life to us. So, Slovenia is not enough smooth passage through the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia, it now has, with full ships along our coast, with empty ships along the Italian coast. Why wouldn't that change at least every 5 years if the risk to Croatia were reduced? And she wants it more in front of our, or other people's coast, and it's a very unusual geometric form unmarked in world maritime legal practice. Would not the example of the Belgian port of Anvers or Antwerp, which is the third in the world after the load, which is as far away from the mouth of the Shelda River in the North Sea and to make it to that port must be passed not only through the territorial sea of the Kingdom of the Netherlands but even through the Netherlands itself. Shouldn't that be an example of solutions like this, and surely they don't open up a dispute about this. And the fact is that what one party takes for granted must allow the other party, and on that basis, it would be quite correct for us to request that we be provided a corridor to the port of Trieste or to the port of Monfalcone that we have a privileged passage towards those ports. Of course, this can still be requested because as far as I know, the specification of the request will only be signed, or within a month, we need to open up what are the recommendations and what are the questions. However, if Croatia forgets or does not seek what is its national interest in the arbitration agreement, then it is our own fault. Let's not, we can't, and we won't be able to blame Slovenia for what it is and what it wants for itself, what it doesn't belong to and what it's used for all our failures. It is our own fault that we have signed Mr Hido Biscevic to give up ecological and fishing zones for an indefinite period of time in favour of the countries of the European Union Italy and Slovenia and there is Slovenia wanting to change the sea borders for itself in favour of doing a great service Italy which continues to fish from its coast to 12 sea miles from ours. So, fishing for fish at 80% of the Adriatic surface. It's our own fault that others are using our bad moves in politics, diplomacy, economy and the like. But don't get me talking as a Eurosceptic or representing a group of citizens, and that's the largest group of citizens who are Eurosceptics. They want to go to Europe but not in the present way. Therefore, the agreement was first-class, i.e. it is a first-class option for citizens to decide whether it is a national interest or not, whether it is too risky for Croatia or not. However, the referendum is being avoided with us. I want to, and I signed it, and I put my signature on and I gave my data to hold the referendum because I think the government belongs to the people, and right now that we're their representatives doesn't mean that we're the best and the best of quality, we're doing the best we can for our people. So, as far as I'm concerned, in Croatia, the party to the pensioner's agreement carries in itself too high a level of risk because it is an unknown composition of the list of arbitarians. The arbitration is a possible political influence, the problem of the entire land and sea borders can be opened, the problem of touching Slovenia with open seas and international waters, as no one has explained to me today the concept of the open sea. According to international law experts, the open sea starts somewhere in the Otrant Gate, so much more south. International waters are nearer, or here, practically in the Istria area. No one is talking or explaining the formulation of the use of relevant marine areas, whether it means regulation of fisheries, whether it includes gas and oil, that is, the use of submarines. Point 2 of Article 3 was to determine the points or particulars of the dispute and not that they would be subsequently established. The political and legal framework for solving problems is not good when the two countries do not have the same negotiating status and especially when the principle of justice and the principle of good neighbourly relations are proposed in order to achieve a fair and fair outcome. The arbitration court's decision is binding even if the laws of the Republic of Croatia do not allow the application of the solution then we are obliged to change our laws in the spirit of the arbitration court's solution. So it's not some great position. Of course, even if everything were to be decided properly and as we agree, Slovenia can again blackmail after all in a way that does not ratify our accession treaty to the European Union. I hope warmly with all that I will not support the ratification of this Agreement I hope warmly and optimisticly, I want to believe that the Croatian government will do everything that Ms. Vesna Pusic said and that we will get as high-quality arbitration as possible and that it really is tried by the principles of international law, because I have the impression that the Slovenians are the only thing that they are afraid of and that their only dilemma is to say for or against this agreement, whether it will dominate the role of experts in international law or whether it will still be political arbitration. So I repeat again on my own behalf in front of the Croatian Retirement Party we will not support the ratification of this agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42731	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42732	Mr. Hrelja, what you've been saying about international law and therefore the court's assessment of international law. The problem is that in point 4.b, it writes not only international law but also justice and good neighbourly relations and fair and just, so fair and just solution. So, it is not only the international right that we are calling upon and Mr. Shakespeare in his presentation but also this other one, and that is what he is actually saying in favour of that solution in Croatia will not be with a little risk but with a lot of risk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42733	Mr. Hrelja's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42734	Dear colleague, I'm sure you'd like to set the order of priorities but I can't get involved in interpreting it, I suppose, although that's not said, yet the criteria of international law have a first priority and I want to believe that's the case. It would not be good if the principles that are sorted by points a, b and c were equivalent. Well, that wouldn't suit us at all. But I still don't want to express that much doubt. I still believe that this is the first, that they have the first priority of the principle of international law. And I hope we see it soon, that we will be witnesses of it. And that's why I did express myself that taking the risk of raising your hand for this agreement is a little too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42735	Thank you. Mr. Representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42736	Ladies and gentlemen, today we have a decision to ratify the arbitration agreement with the Republic of Slovenia, which Croatia wants to show that it is ready to solve all problems in accordance with international law. On the other hand, however, it is in front of the Croatian fact that the Slovenian army has been practically from the Homeland War on St. Gera, that one time a nuclearist Krško was adopted, that the Croatian savings of the Ljubljanska banks did not get their money back, and that Slovenia also openly shows territorial claims when it comes to solving the problem in Savudrija vala. With all that in mind, the question is, what are we going to do with this ratification of the agreement that is before us today? Perhaps it would be good to promote what has been happening since the first Ollie Rehn proposal to date. The first proposal was accepted in this Croatian Assembly unanimously, but after that, as Slovenia rejected the proposal, another who was less favourable to Croatia, and who did not therefore come to the Croatian Parliament. We also had a statement from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in June, which legal experts believe may, in the final dispute, be the element that will cause certain damage to the Republic of Croatia, i.e. give a certain argument to the Republic of Slovenia. In order to meet the representatives of the Croatian parliamentary parties and the proposal for an arbitration agreement, followed by a series of negotiations with the Slovenian prime minister, with a statement of non-judication, which was to be delivered with the testimony of representatives of the European Council and of the United States of America. It came shortly after that, following a statement by the Slovenian prime minister that he did not wish to accept Slovenia, that he would not accept on behalf of Slovenia the signing of the agreement, unless Croatia adopted such a statement with the testimony of representatives of the European Council and of the United States, in order to find an agreement and a statement on non-judication here next week, but in which there was no more testimony from the European Council and the United States. After that, there was also a withdrawal of the declaration, or agreement that it would be later, after the agreement itself was confirmed. In addition, the prime minister, Slovenian Prime Minister Pahor also asked for an assessment of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, and there was a announcement of a ratification decision following a referendum in Slovenia. So we have one continuity in losses on the Croatian side when it comes to a possible argument in case it finally comes to a dispute before the International Court of Justice, either when making decisions on this solution. The question is raised, and what if the proposal for an arbitration agreement does not go to a referendum in Slovenia? We will again be in a situation that, after perhaps a new series of negotiations, we will have to accept agreements that will be even less favourable than this. Therefore, from the point of view of the Croatian Party, it is the right to postpone the ratification of this agreement until the end of the referendum in Slovenia, and to promote Slovenia's behaviour in resolving this issue, so as not to put itself back in a position to weaken our argument in any of the following agreements. That is why I propose that the adoption of this ratification be delayed, and that a referendum be carried out in the Republic of Croatia on what citizens think about this arbitration agreement. So if there's a vote on this agreement, I'll be against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42737	Thank you very much. And finally, Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42738	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I want to thank the government for the debate I think I can say that it was really constructive. I'll just answer a few short questions and try to clear up some dilemmas. For example, MP Lesar asked the government why we are afraid of citizens, speaking of a referendum, so why is this agreement, that is, the Law on Confirmation in front of the Croatian Parliament? Well, I think it is a notorious fact that you MPs and gentlemen representatives represent the citizens of the Republic of Croatia here in the Croatian Parliament, that that is why you are elected and decided on their behalf, so that you can decide in this case as well. Mr Hrelja also asked in his presentation, he wondered, or expressed his doubts as to what would happen if Slovenia, or the Slovenian Parliament, did not ratify this agreement? And it's put into the context of further fate and this document. So I think that both today and in this House of the High, we in the Croatian Government must take care of what we are doing, which way we are going, whether we are determined to finish this job and above all whether we are determined to join the European Union. And I think there's really a consensus about that. And if anything happens beyond what we planned when Prime Minister Pahor and I signed an agreement, if the Croatian Parliament ratifys this agreement today, there is no more blockade. So that's for us, and certainly the most important question for you. So we continue negotiations, we end negotiations, we sign the Accession Treaty, and from that moment on, the deadlines for this agreement begin. I agree with you, ladies and gentlemen, that we still have a lot of work to do on this road, so the realisation of the agreement will still be nothing simple or easy, but I want to tell you that we will continue to take care of the national interests exclusively, of the interests of the Republic of Croatia as it has been so far. Croatia definitely has a chance to become a leader in this part of the world today, in this part of Europe. I said, so I repeat both at this time and at the signing of the Stockholm agreement that, above all, the deblockation of Croatian negotiations, but then the signing of the agreement is a clear signal of hope for our neighbours, so all of Southeast Europe. And I also agree with Mr. Pupovac, who talked about many of the boundaries we still have to solve, means internal borders. And certainly we will be even stronger in solving the unemployment-related borders, in borrowing, but certainly in fighting corruption, but all of these jobs ahead of us are every day and closer to the EU. It is ours, at this point, the most important foreign-political but quite certain and internal-political goal. So, thanks to all of you who contributed to the debate, once again I propose to the Croatian Parliament to ratify this law, that is, the arbitration agreement. I believe we're at the end of one job, but we're certainly not at the end of the road that's most important to us right now. There's a lot of work ahead of us, so I invite you to make a contribution in this business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42739	I thank the Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now approach the vote on the ratification of the arbitration agreement and I would like to inform you that the HDSB Club is based on Article 229(3) of the Treaty on arbitration. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament requested a name vote in the Parliament on ratification. So I'm asking the secretary of the session to approach the call of counsel. 123 are present representatives and MPs, please read loudly so that everyone can hear it when it is called, not read so that it can't be heard, as you often know. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42740	Ivo Andrić – za, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović – za, Željka Antunović – za, Ivan Bagarić – za, Arsen Bauk – za, Luka Bebić – za, Davor Bernardić – za, Goran Beus Richembergh -, Suzana Bilić Vardić – za, Mato Biljanjić – za, Dragutin Bodakoš – za, Biljana Boržan – za, Rade Bošnjak – za, Marin Brkarić – za, Perica Bukić – za, Vesna Buterin – za, Karmela Caparin – za, Bakica Crljanko – za, Nada Čavlović Hrović – Za, Zradažak - Zdravna Čehić – Za, Zdenka Čuhnić – Za, Za, Za, Krešimir Krešimir Čuljak – Za, Kreljić – Za, Krešimir Creljić – Za, Krečić – Za, Kreživić – Zač, Žrč – Žrč, Žrč – Žrč – Za, Žrč, Žrč, Žrč, Žrjakrjakrić, Žrčić, Žrč, Žrč, Žrjak, Žrjak, Žrjak, Žrjak, Žrjak, Žrjak, Žrč, Žrić, Žrić, Žrić, Žrić, Žrić, Žrić, Žrić, Žrić, Žrić, Žrić, Žrić, Žrić, Žrić, Žrić, Žrić, Žrić, Žrić, Žrić, Žrić, Žrić, Žrić, Žrić, Žrić, Zak, Zak, Krić, Zrić, Žrić, Zrić, Zrić, Zak, Zak, Zak, Zak, Zak, Zak, Zak, Zak, Za, Zak, Zak, Zak, Zak, Zak, Zak, Zak, Zak, Zak, Zak, Zak, Now we're gonna do these again. Goran Beus Richembergh, Ivan Čehok, Ivan Drmić, Mirjana Ferić-Vac, Zdenko Franić, Branimir Glavas, Danica Hursa, Ljubo Jurčić, Antun Korusec, Ante Kotromanović, Boris Miletić, Zdravko Ronko, Daniel Srb, Boris Šprem, Marko Turić, Zoran Vinković, Biserka Vranić, Tanja Vrbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-20-0.u42741	The result of the vote on ratification of the Agreement between Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the arbitration agreement is the following. It has joined the vote of 135 MPs and MPs. The ratification was voted by 129 against 6 and no abstentions. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives and MPs, we will conclude today's session. [[Applause]] The extension is 25.11. at 9.30 p.m. on Wednesday with the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Armenia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax avoidance with the final draft of the law. Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We continue our work the way we announced on Friday. Before I move to the agenda, I would like to inform you that the 31st session of the Committee on Economy at 12 o'clock today at the "Janka Draškovića" hall, 202/2. Committee Chairman Dragan Kovacevic. We move to - - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Armenia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax, with the final proposal of the law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 462 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 159. Rules of Procedure. The emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Ivica Mladneo. Here you go.
