ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44589	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed representatives. Here I will try to explain in the most important part this new Structural Support Act and the regulation of the fisheries market. So this is a new law. We recently passed a new Agricultural Support Act. Now we have to bring in this one that only applies to the fishing sector. Therefore, in order to obtain full membership in the European Union, it is necessary to coordinate our fisheries policy mechanisms with the provisions of the common fisheries policy of the European Union. I must stress that out of the total of 3 criteria that we have been hinted at in Chapter 13, even 2 refer to this issue and to the adoption of this law and its implementation. Therefore, the aim of the adoption of this law is to adapt the structural support systems with those within the European Union's common fisheries policy, more specifically with Regulations 1198 of 2006 and 104 of 2000, which would result in, therefore, strengthening the competitiveness of the sector, improving the physical and social infrastructure of the sector, improving production, capacity of cultivation and the fishing industry, preserving fishing communities and of course environmental concerns. At this point, fishing is defined through two existing laws, hence the Marine Fisheries Act and the freshwater fishing law. This law will define other relevant segments of fisheries policy and thus round the legislative whole of the fishing sector. When we talk about the need to pass this law, then we must recognise that the issue of structural policy measures and the issue of market regulation has not been sufficiently regulated and thirdly, therefore, the need for definitive harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union. The first chapter is about local and regional self-government units. Therefore, support can no longer be given at regional or local level unless they comply with the resolution ministry. So, the Resort Ministry runs a full register of all the support. The law stipulates that no support can be provided at this level in terms of incentives per unit of product, per kilogram, etc. So there is one, and there will be a better co-operation between units of local and regional self-government with a resolute ministry. In the second chapter where we are talking about structural fisheries policy, I must say that structural policy considers measures aimed at financing identified priorities and objectives in the context of fisheries policy, so-called. the structure either in terms of project financing similar to the SAPARD mechanism or now IPARD, or in terms of financing individual measures such as the withdrawal of the vessel or the like. The Head defines the objectives and principles, as well as the priority area in line with the acquis of the European Union, and the measures that can be set out as the most significant. These are support for the adaptation of the fishing fleet, support for the development of aqua culture, support for the development of processing and marketing, the development of fisheries-dependent communities and, of course, projects of common interest such as fishing ports, infrastructure facilities and the like. It is defined in the second and the need to adopt a national strategic fisheries development plan based on an operational plan, an operational programme for the implementation of that national strategic plan. So these are two documents that are adopted after this law which define mainly the state, priorities, users, the financial framework and, of course, the period of application. I must stress that both documents are brought through consultations within the framework of the partnership. These documents are the subject of negotiations with the European Commission before accession so that the Republic of Croatia can use the European Fisheries Fund. In the pre-accession period, the national rules defining the implementation and targeted measures for which there is a basis in this law are possible in accordance with national rules. I must stress that we have planned to finance the sector through the basis of this law, following the adoption of this law of the necessary regulations, until the adoption of a national strategic plan. It is also defined to establish an appropriate implementation system. This segment is particularly important in relation to the European Commission, and it is necessary to establish all the necessary mechanisms, so as well as for the implementation of the Agriculture Act. It is necessary to have an administrative directorate, an intermediate body, or a paying agency, a certification body and an audit body. The full implementation of structural measures shall be implemented through a direct system of consultation and participation of the partners. The third is about the regulation of the fisheries product market aimed at affecting the stability of the domestic market, the impact on the competitiveness of national fisheries and, of course, the implementation of obligations under international trade agreements taken by the Republic of Croatia. Market regulation includes market standards, market intervention prices. Therefore interventions are related to certain measures and pricing policies, and can only be implemented in a certain way. Producer organisations are defined, they are the only possible mechanism for carrying out interventions. Consumer notification and trade with other countries has been defined. Due to the specificity of fishing in the Republic of Croatia in the segment of the organisation of the market, fishing cooperatives are particularly recognised. So we know that fishing cooperatives have long been brought back to life in other Member States of the European Union, but this is the assumption that they produce producer organisations so that they can withdraw certain funds available for market interventions. They are also defined in the fourth chapter of support in special status. It is therefore a financing mechanism which is allowed in accordance with the general rules of state support. It's so-called. state... which have some special horizontal measures in the fisheries sector. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we're going to get some new mechanisms that are called deminimism in Europe that target a particular sector, so by the principle of each one. I must stress that in this case, it will also be possible to finance not only fishermen, craftsmen, or business owners, but also that it will be possible to finance direct employees in the fishing sector, so on fishing vessels. Any support granted in this status must be assessed in accordance with specific guides, and must be either notified or notified to the Commission after entry into the European Union. All measures referred to in the structural policy may be implemented in a way that provides specific support. So they can be financed and only from the resources of our state budget, we do not have to finance them from the funds that we receive from European funds. And in chapter five, we're talking institutional support. Therefore, in the implementation of this law and of the sublegal rules to be adopted on the basis of it, the engagement of the administration unit at all levels, as well as of individual services and institutions is foreseen. It therefore assumes that users are involved in the consultation system, with regard to the implementation of this law, what would the Croatian Institute of Agriculture and Consultative Service in the first place, and the law also recognises the private advisory service. And at the end of administrative inspection, I must say that it is in line with the provisions of special laws. First of all, there are sea fishing laws, freshwater fishing laws, the Penal Code and others. The transitional provisions provide for a mechanism to be applied before the adoption of the national strategic plan. In the end, I must say that this law was preceded by a broad public debate involving representatives of the fishing sector, so the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the company of fishermen of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, all the resolution ministries, and I must say that a lot of the remarks that were argued that they were accepted in this debate and incorporated into this law. I must say, this law will certainly contribute to strengthening the competitiveness of the fisheries sector. I must also say that all that the European regulations have allowed us to be incorporated into this law, so all that Europe offers in this law is written. And finally, in order for this law to be implemented as soon as possible, so that these provisions of the law can be revived as soon as possible, it is proposed that the law be passed by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44590	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44591	Thank you. Mr. President, state secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. At the 26th session, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development discussed the Proposal for a Law on structural support and regulation of the fisheries market, in the capacity of the home working body. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. Representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the fishing unions in Croatia, participated in the debate. The debate expressed its satisfaction with the adoption of the law in question as a key document to ensure timely establishment of the necessary adjustment mechanisms in the segment of the organisation of the market and structural measures, as well as the system of state and other support in the practice of the European Union. The importance of timely adjustment is highlighted, since it can secure the transitional period necessary to adapt the economy and enable the positioning of Croatian fishermen and fish products producers on the single market of the European Union. About the importance of building so-called the cold chain, says the debate, shows that in the first half of 2009, a catch of between 8 and 10 thousand tonnes of fish was missed or thrown. The debate considers that Article 37 should define the interests of legal and natural persons who are able to perform private advisory services in fisheries. The major problems of Croatian fisheries are estimated to be fishing ports and landing sites, and the resolution of this problem should be assisted by units of local self-government in the adoption of spatial plans. The Committee member stated that 400 wagons had been built in the Benkovec area and that the Croatian Privatisation Fund had opened a tender for the sale of the facility but was not interested in the purchase. Given the 40-year non-investment in fisheries, the question of who has the financial resources is that they can buy a freezer of such capacity. The opinion is expressed that this Law will allow for association with fishing organisations of producers and interstructured professional organisations which will have sufficient financial resources to invest. After the debate was held, the Committee decided unanimously to propose to the Croatian Parliament that the adopted Act on Structural Support and Regulation of the Market in Fisheries be adopted with the following amendments: Amendment 1 to Article 12(3), paragraph 3 above paragraph 5, a new indent is added which reads as follows: "Possors to the construction and equipment of new and modernising and equipping existing storage, cooling and freezing facilities". Alinea 6th precinct, bottom 7th. 2. Amendment to Article 16(1) of Article 16(1) of Article 16(1), the word ‘units’ is added and a new paragraph 2 is added, which reads as follows: ‘exceptionally from the provisions of paragraph 1 the user may carry out those actions in the light of unforeseen circumstances or more force, with the prior approval of the administrative directorate’. Articles 2 and 3 so far become paragraphs 3 and 4. Amendment 3 to Article 20, point (b) is amended as follows: "Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Croatian Chamber of crafts and other economic and social partners". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44592	I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44593	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me on behalf of the SDP Club to say that this law that we have today at the debate is certainly one step towards what we are seeking, and that is the primary and order of our fisheries but also the legislation that is related to it. Because fishing as a special branch of agriculture in today's business days is now facing increasingly demanding conditions. Because in order to join the European Union, it is necessary to adopt and implement a series of standards as well as their mechanisms of action in our legislation. We know that chapter 13 of fishing goes through many peripetias, that the opening of this chapter was questionable, that for this chapter we had no measure, today when we received them, and that therefore the chapters had a ZERP for 75 days, and pulled it back to show some good will in negotiating regarding the fisheries chapter. That is why this proposal for a law on structural support and regulation of the fisheries market is also a significant factor in the development of Croatian Fisheries, but only provided we bring it forward with the aim of implementing it. Why? Well, because fishing entities expect major changes, because the fishing policy of Croatia today is far from the measures prescribed by the common fisheries policy of the European Union, so I think the opening secretary of state said that this compliance and this meaning of this Act are great so that both the fisheries chapter and the closure of but also the subsequent withdrawal of certain funds related to it. That is why we view this Act as one of the key documents that will ensure the timely establishment of certain adjustment mechanisms in the segment and market organisation, as well as structural measures and support systems from European Union practices. We know that the support we have today is not related to the new aid law that we have brought, but they are related to everything and are based on what we used to be a kilo and the rest of what happened to the support that fishing has received. That is why this support system will also need to be significantly adapted or amended and built on the basis of the European Union Aid Act. The basis of this Law also requires the adoption of a series of implementing rules, as well as the preparation of certain administrative capacities for the successful implementation of the appropriations from the common European Union funds and their distribution to Croatian Fisheries. However, in order to pass such a good law, we should be aware that all that is proposed is to be experienced and some changes, normally and exactly the discussions that were and the debates mentioned by the Secretary of State, are certain that they have installed a lot of what producers or fishermen from Croatia have highlighted, but also these amendments given by the Committee on Agriculture, which we also have to be made better, because it is visible and the Government has seen that certain things should certainly be changed in this text of the Law that we have received in the debate. And if we sublime both amendments, we'll probably get something that should be a good law. We also need to be aware of the conditions in which our fishing and marine but also freshwater are located. Transitional changes, and then the war situation has led to a cross-border tolerance in fishing production. As already mentioned and mentioned, and also in discussions and on the Committee on Marine Fisheries, there has been a talk that a real fishing vessel has not been built for 40 years, and in freshwater land infrastructure of the pond is in the process of disappearing. There are no freshwater fisheries to restore the embankment, purification of the ponds, etc., so that many ponds are abandoned. I'll go through the results later and show you exactly what's going on in that freshwater pond. Therefore, the need for significant consolidation and modernisation of Croatian fisheries is imperative because it is the only way we can meet the extremely high standards that relate to our entry into the EU regarding this chapter of fisheries. It is precisely an emphasis on the consolidation and modernisation of Croatia's fisheries that is precisely one of the branches that has a surplus in exports compared to imports. There are therefore possibilities, there are natural conditions for our Adriatic fisheries, and also for freshwater fishermen located in the northern, or continental parts of the Republic of Croatia. If we analyze the situation in marine fisheries, we will determine the link between the free catches that reached a 49 thousand-ton figure last year of which is 42.5 thousand tonnes of blue fish. So, this blue fish that 80% serves tuna farming is one of the essential catches that we can use, and that's primarily for tuna farming, and why does that tuna grow matter to us? Well, it's precisely because that tuna 98% of that tuna is exported to Japan. We therefore fertilise the caught blue fish through tuna farming and thus create a certain profit and opportunity to export to the external market. It is in this segment that we believe it is also necessary to change, as said in the amendment and Article 13(2), as proposed, yes. Why? Because precisely at the disposal of this caught blue fish, we provide enough food to grow tuna, and thus improve the balance of coverage of imports by export. Now that index is 108%, for what? And why it could be bigger, and it could be 143% bigger because just when we don't have enough of that blue fish that we've caught, which we don't have anywhere to store then we're importing and thus increasing this import balance instead of feeding our fish from the Adriatic and using it in tuna farms. Therefore, this amendment also stated the need to build cooling facilities that could fully accept all caught fish during the high fishing period. Because as it has already been said, it happens that 8-10 thousand tons of blue fish return to the sea during that period because there is nowhere to be placed. There you should see how to exploit these capacity of these refrigerators used with tourism because they are not covered at the time of use. It means that these freezers, where the blue tuna would be used, could also be used in the tourist area, which is also related to storage and food and fruit, etc., which can be used in tourism. Aqua culture of fish farming is the fastest growing sector in food production in the world. So the total production has increased by one-third in the last six years. In the global proportions of fish consumption, it already accounts for over 50% of the total fish consumption with a further trend of decline precisely in the value of this caught fish. That is why Croatia is particularly interested in whitefish farming. We had growers who also had the best price. Today, the total production of watermelons and nuts is moving over 4 thousand tons. Ten years ago, it was only 545 tons. Therefore, what has been said in the amendments, the interest to add in Article 16 that the breeding site belongs to facilities which, if financed under this law, must not be alienated before a legal time is significant to stress this because, in particular, we expect it to continue to develop fish farming on the Adriatic, and for each breeding site, it is certainly necessary and there is a certain need to make certain decisions and that they do not disagree with tourism. Therefore, once it is made it is safe to serve as such and at least as it is said here, especially if the funds from this law have been obtained, for at least 5 years it should not be estranged or abolished. One of the questions that this law will resolve, for sure, is the issue of freshwater fishing that has had a major decline in production since 1990. Today, this production has settled to 4.5 thousand tons of freshwater fish. It used to be 11,000 tons. The number of ponds has decreased, the area of the pond has been halved, and this has certainly led to certain problems related to the production of freshwater fish, and in this production we used to be exporters of freshwater fish. Unfortunately, however, in this country's transition to the Czech Republic, Hungary, etc., they have resolved some issues more quickly and thus created a more quality production that they place on the European market. In our case, this situation is the result of many problems still unresolved from which I state the legal status of the ponds. The ponds are not yet legally regulated as such, as well as certain high water costs, unresolved environmental problems, the damage from fish birds, and many other technical obsolescence. It is in this segment that we expect from the law that the structural policy measures that form part of the national strategic plan of Article 7 allow freshwater fisheries to come to production that our freshwater resources can achieve. Therefore, the need to adopt a National Strategic Plan and an operational programme is crucial if we are to implement this law. Questions, who can get support, what are clear criteria and how their spending will be controlled, will allow freshwater fishing to lead to a state of competitiveness both in Croatia and the European Union. Article 17 and Appendix 1 are not specified and therefore the conditions for the financing of structural support measures and the arrangements for their implementation, as prescribed by the Minister, should be laid down by this Regulation and set by this law by a deadline which is not currently set by that law. In addition, part of the law relating to the regulation of the market for fishery products should certainly prevent us from having a shortage of fish production for the domestic market. We know that usually in continental areas for religious holidays, Christmas Eve, fish are not spent and is then us. But also the lack of marketing concepts, the poverty of the aortics, relatively high prices caused by low production and high fixed costs. Therefore, safeguards on imports and exports of fishery products must also be in the function of preserving this production based on natural resources. And finally, this institutional support for law enforcement is a significant factor. All subjects should be developed, including the advisory service I spoke about and related to the Agriculture Act. And I don't think it's a good thing it's just the minister who can determine who's doing the job. Finally, the SDP law supports the hope that the amendments will be supported and incorporated into the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44594	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44595	In fact, I absolutely agree with my colleague Bodakosh, so that there are major problems in aqua culture and aquaculture, etc. But that information that Croatia produces 4 thousand tonnes is not correct. It is the correct data in 2008 that we produce 5 thousand and 200 tonnes of consumer fish and 2 thousand tonnes a year, which means about 7 thousand and 200 tonnes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44596	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44597	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues of this law prescribes general conditions, objectives, measures and means of achieving support in the framework of structural policy and support in special status, and market regulation measures. In order to obtain full membership in the European Union, it is necessary to coordinate the fisheries policy mechanisms of the Republic of Croatia in all segments with the provisions of the common fisheries policy, as well as in the segment subject to this law. The structure of policies, support in specific status and regulation of the market, and its provisions relate equally to marine and freshwater fisheries. Although resource management constitutes the backbone of every fisheries policy, the current legal framework, the Law on the Sea and the Law on freshwater fisheries does not contain the above mentioned. The law defines 4 areas of priorities for investment in structural policy, adaptation of the fishing fleet, development of aqua culture, economic fisheries on freshwater, processing and marketing of fishery products, projects of common interest and sustainable development of fishing communities and areas that depend on fisheries and measures that can be financed within these areas of priority. By the provisions of this law prescribed and assigned, support by the only local, regional and regional self-government. By entering the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development will be the only body responsible for the European Commission for reporting on all types of support and on the legality of their allocation. Units of local, regional and regional self-government will be able to grant support, but with prior consent and approval of the ministry. In addition to effective and quality law enforcement, it is necessary to establish institutional support relating to the functioning of the state administration body, units of local, regional and regional self-government, scientific and professional institutions, fishing services institutions, chambers, and various forms of professional and interest in fishing integration. It is of particular importance that the activity is taken into account, as the backbones of the implementation of the laws relating to the provision of services, information, user consultation. Over the past few years, significant investments have been made in the fisheries sector, but unfortunately this activity in the Republic of Croatia has reached a level where it can effectively compete with neighbouring countries or the single market of the European Union. The most significant investments so far have been aimed at restoring and modernising the fleet, where I believe that a lot has been made and that today we have a fleet that is at least in some segments of the modern and able to evenly participate in fishing, tuna and small bluefish catch. However, there are a whole range of other elements such as modernising the rest of the fishing fleet, building fishing infrastructure on land, processing and breeding in which mechanisms are to be developed in which the sector will be financed and allow for its consolidation and development. The objectives of the structural policy measures are to strengthen the competitiveness of the sector, improve the physical and social infrastructure of the fisheries sector, improve production capacities in growing and fishing industries, preserve fishing communities and protect the environment. The law created a framework for the adoption of strategic documents necessary for the implementation of structural support measures, national and strategic fisheries development plans and operational programmes. The national and strategic plan sets out the priorities and objectives of fisheries development, while the operational programme sets out measures to achieve identified... and the objectives to be financed from the European Fisheries Fund. The Structural Support and Market Regulation Act contains provisions that allow the financing of a series of investments and projects both through structural policy measures and through support in a specific status. These are essentially state aid from exclusively national funds which we have so called to make it more acceptable for the European Union and will be able to pay off under a much lighter procedure. Because it is important to know that, with the entry into the European Union, the fisheries sector remains completely free of the ability to pay off incentives by the quantities of products. It is necessary to move to their implementation as soon as possible to prepare the Croatian fisheries sector for operating conditions on the EU single market. I've heard several times on the Adriatic there are catches that have nowhere to land or store. We have no fishing ports and landing sites, and the construction of the fish storage coolers are absolutely priorities, and this law provides for exactly their funding. So far, there have been no mechanisms in the Republic of Croatia for the regulation of the fisheries market in line with the acquis of the European Union. The sub-settled fisheries market covers market standards for certain fishery products, fishing association, prices and interventions, consumer notification, and trade with other countries of the tariff quota and approval. The Structural Support Act for Fisheries Markets establishes a market-organised sector with its provisions and recognises the place and role of the Fisheries Association. In addition to producer organisations which have not yet been established, fishing cooperatives, whose number is constantly increasing, may retain their form and have an equally significant place in defining supply and demand, which is one of the significant roles of the association. It is also necessary to establish institutional support for effective and quality law enforcement. This primarily means a bigger place and the role of local and regional self-government. In many cases local development decisions are taken locally, and the mechanism is not recognised in the legal framework. This law, among other things, regulates that question. In order to successfully implement the co-financing mechanism from the common funds of the European Union, appropriate administrative structures should be established and existing capacities strengthened, which is specifically related to the establishment of the functions of the management of the certification and audit body. Without adequate structure and the establishment of an appropriate administrative structure, it is not possible to use the intended financial resources. The Administrative Directorate will be responsible for drawing up strategic documents and funding, and the other bodies have a function to confirm costs and audits. Since the degree of Croatia's full membership of the European Union only exists for the fisheries sector, there is a special fund from which different projects and measures can be financed, timely system adaptation and the establishment of all necessary mechanisms is an absolute priority. By implementing this law, we will allow a transitional period of habitation from the beginning of next year so that we can actually use the possibility of co-financing provided by the community on the date of membership. The law also regulates the issue of support in particular status and provides for a range of different measures covered by this type of support. On the date of Croatia's entry into the European Union, this support will be able to be granted and co-financing will be made from the European Union's resources. As the current fisheries support system needs to be modified by the degree of Croatia's membership in the European Union, this will make adjustments achieved during the pre-accession period and make it easier to put the situation in the economy as soon as possible to position Croatian fishermen and fisheries producers, with competitive business in the context of the Single Market of the European Union. I think it's time we prepared quality for that part. Therefore, the Croatian Peasants' Club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44598	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44599	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. Dear Secretary of State with his associates. In particular, it should be noted that all the adjustments in the area of agriculture have a key problem for Croatia, or we can say the difference between the European Union and the fact that the European Union is a food power, hence the power of food production, to record high surpluses, while on the other hand, the Republic of Croatia is an importer of food and deficit in the largest part of production. And we were also talking about this debate about the Agriculture Act, so that we had 8 years back in which we had to constantly increase our support to, in particular, this production support, while on the other hand the European Union was reducing these support, i.e. from these direct majority, to horizontal ones. But clearly, it was intended to increase production, income, competitiveness. But at this stage, as is the issue of fishing, it is necessary to clearly go to system training, to adapt the system, because we are coming into a phase when we will have to withdraw funds from the European Union funds under clearly outlined rules. And in this very law and the adoption of this law and the Operational Programme and the National Strategy are just a prerequisite for participation in European Union funds. That is why Croatia does not have much space or opportunity to postpone the adjustment during this pre-accession period, because in the future, especially when entering the European Union, any delay or delay would cause huge problems, but also financial damage. That is why the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this law. It should also be said that the European Union's common fisheries policy that we adapt to by adopting and adopting this law, so it experienced its changes in 2002, there was a reform, there was a shift. And one of the most important reasons was that 88% of the fish fund is being fished over measures in the European Union, so there is this disproportionateity of the fishing fleet of the European Union and of the fish wealth. Some species were at risk and were also wanted to go towards the long-term viability of the fishing sector, namely sustainable fisheries and sustainable exploitation of living marine resources. What a twist in this policy, therefore, consists of a ban on public support for the construction of the fishing fleet, of measures aimed at reducing the number of fishing vessels and fishing effort and, in fact, of bringing the fishing fleet to a level suitable for available marine resources, which we have already said to be significantly already at risk. Therefore, both these directives and the regulations that we are harmonising with are the result of a shift in the common fisheries policy of the European Union. It should also be said that even at this point, heated debates are being held at European Union level between individual countries. Member States agree that the status quo is not sustainable, especially due to the threat of the fish fund, but the agreement on the reduction of national quotas has not yet been reached primarily because governments, despite the fact that fishing is only one small part of the gross social product, are aware that the fisheries sector is holding a lot of jobs. Croatia should therefore also lead a wise national policy in this sector, not for the same reason that fishing is taking up some large share of the gross social product, so only up to 1%, but for the reason that a large number of people are involved in this production, and in some parts it is fishing and lifestyle and guaranteeing biological sustainability, especially if we are talking about coast and islands. Today, economic fisheries in the Republic of Croatia are engaged in 3740 fishermen and small fishing by 13 thousand and 150 fishermen. It should also be said that certain fishing movements have been made in recent years. In 2008, the total catches of Croatian marine fisheries increased by 22.3%. Compared to 2007, it was over 49,000 tonnes. Trend has been up, to say the least since 2003, since that catch increased by 70%. Despite the data presented and despite all the incentive measures implemented by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, therefore, as regards the efforts and resources made and the restoration of our fishing fleet, along with measures around fishing markets, land policies that ensure better legal status of freshwater ponds, i.e. companies involved in this activity. It should be made clear that our fishing fleet is not competitive in relation to the environment. Catching and breeding in both mari and aqua culture is not enough to support its own support. We have far greater potential than we use it unlike our neighbors, and our fishermen are not well organized. Industrial fish processing, fish consumption in the Republic of Croatia, better market organisation, construction of ports of landing sites are problems for which this law will certainly contribute. Therefore, in particular in creating more efficient assumptions, it is necessary to move as soon as possible and to implement them as soon as possible to better prepare the fisheries sector for the European Union. The organisation of the market and the role of the producer association has a special importance in this law, but in some ways it could be a critical point. Let's just take one thesis from the bill, I'll quote it. The ZERP of the European Union says that as a basic mechanism for the implementation of the fisheries market policy, it defines producer organisations that are neither identical to their own structure nor their own way of working to existing fishing cooperatives. As a basic task, producer organisations have direct management of resources with the aim of stabilising supply and demand on the market and their own plans, so they adopt rules on the manner and quantity of catches of their members in accordance with the law. This achieves price stabilisation and ensures a better position of members of the organisation on the market. For the purposes of regulation of the ZERP market, it also prescribes a pricing policy that is implemented exclusively through producer organisations. The fact that fishermen will work through their associations to monitor the catch quotas as part of the market mechanism of supply and demand, to implement pricing policy is an extremely demanding job and a huge effort will have to be made precisely for the organisation and training of fishing associations. So, they really get great powers and powers from this law, but also from great obligations, and I think that they will really need to put forth additional and strong efforts to organise them and to be able to carry out the job. This is why we also consider it an important segment of the law and training of users and the role of the Croatian Institute for Agriculture and Consultative Service. It is certain that by adopting this law and the fish market, support for fishing, monitoring and protection of fish resources, it will become an integrated mechanism for us to manage this sector more effectively as a country. It is important to point out once again that all of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce associations on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, also participated in the implementation of this law, in its preparation. It is also important to note, regarding this law, that the prerequisite for obtaining funds from the European Union is to adopt a national strategic plan for the development of fisheries and operational programmes. These documents should be adopted by mid next year, and the prerequisite for them to be discussed at all, so that they can be passed is the adoption of this law. Therefore, the adoption of this law when we look at some continuity and some kind of relationship means a prerequisite for withdrawing funds from the European Union funds. Both these documents are negotiated, so with the European Commission and as we have done in our time within the SAPARD plan, areas for co-financing in the area of fisheries are defined. If the European Commission did not confirm these documents stemming from this law, that is, if they did not adopt this law as a prerequisite, they would not be able to withdraw the European Union's funds. Therefore, in view of all the above mentioned clubs, the Croatian Democratic Community supports the adoption of this law and we are convinced that this is also a significant contribution to strengthening and competitiveness of the fishing sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44600	On behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44601	Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State, gentlemen of the Parliament. What is interesting in this law or the proposal for a law on structural support and regulation of the fisheries market is that on the third hand, it says literally that no additional means are needed to implement this law. However, it is said that its implementation will need to properly structure the allocation of funds under the State budget for 2010 within the division of the competent ministry. On the other hand, I am looking at page 14 of the specific status support, Article 33, and here some 25 of the different support is listed, which is said to include: support for dedicated environmental protection, support for research, development and innovation, support for the resolution of firms in difficulty, support for small, medium-sized economies, support for employment, support for education, support for services of general economic interest, support for economic development of areas with abnormally low standard of living, support for economic development of specific public care, support for small value, support for small-scale support for the promotion of fisheries associations, support for insurance against possible damage to production, etc. etc. So, on the one hand, it is said that we do not need additional resources, and only if this means supporting investments in fishing ports and landing sites, support for the protection and development of water flora and fauna, support for joint activities, processing, marketing, support for freshwater fisheries and not to list, support for modification, re-use of fishing vessels, etc. etc. So, if this law were to be consistently applied in some way, I dare say that not all the funds for agriculture in the next year that would be directed towards fisheries would be sufficient for us. Now, on the other hand, the state is reducing its support for agriculture by around 600 million kuna in the 2010 budget. For example, the support for shipbuilding, for agriculture and industry, is about 10 billion kuna in 2009, and here you are in the light of this legislative proposal tells us that it does not cost de facto. Only shipbuilding and agriculture together, let's say from the state this year, or they'll get about 8.3 billion kuna of these different aids. Every employee in the Republic of Croatia for support in certain activities at an annual level stands out about 6 thousand kuna. So a million and 500 thousand employees, each with about 6 thousand kuna for support. Any employee of the Republic of Croatia who works in shipbuilding, on the basis of annual support, receives 227 thousand 488 kuna. Every employee in the farm, means they get support of 93 thousand 214 kuna. In the rest of the industry, 10 grand, 943 kuna. However, regardless of these huge, almost frustrating figures, I am absolutely against bankruptcy, primarily smuts, because this bankruptcy would be more expensive than recovery and it must simply be avoided because it could then lead the entire country into bankruptcy. But let's let the shipbuilding go back to agriculture, get back to that fishing industry. Fisheries certainly can and should be one of the exceptional activities of the Republic of Croatia. We are here, for example, on the export of fish, as in the export of wheat to the Republic of Croatia, and we see on the other hand that this activity of the fishing industry is given incomparably less importance. We seem to him as if we were simply staying away from him. Why? Because, I dare say, the fishing lobby is not sufficiently represented in the government or not represented enough by our governments, but without somehow helping that branch. In the end, it can easily happen to us that we will be left without fishing itself. That it shouldn't be too surprising, that that's when we destroyed so much, and almost ran out of Adriatic orientation, why should we even be surprised if we run out of fishing. We've destroyed the shipbuilding, or we're on a good path, we've destroyed the liners. It's enough to mention the Croatia Line. We've destroyed almost every industry along our shores. It is enough to mention that one Dalmatia is almost out of industry, without 100,000 jobs in the industry. Only Istria has about 25 grand more employees today than it was in the '90s. A year. We destroyed, that fishermen, they wanted us abandoned, maybe they're working those two, three months into the season. And that's what our Adriatic orientation is about. Now, what about that fishing market? That everything's gonna change overnight, I just can't believe that story. For example. Istria, the Primorje-Gorski County has two major fish markets, but it just doesn't work. I can't say exactly now how much we invested in that wholesale market in Poreč, whether it was 3, 4, 5 million euros, I don't know by heart, but I know that simply this investment, I won't say it's questionable character, but it doesn't work in its fullness as it is on the western coast of the Adriatic Sea in neighbouring Italy. Our fishermen are getting more or less down, I absolutely respect it, for fighting for the blue diesel, and let's say these majors, it should really be arranged so our fishermen don't experience what they can experience very easily in the year ahead of us by our shipbuilders. The fishermen on the one hand, everyone was talking about it, looking for wholesalers, and then they stay away, and I think that some times will simply change, and that this grey economy will have to be avoided in that area in due course. This fishing industry, I don't know, we've heard from previous speakers, will be supported by the European Union, but the question is how real it will be and whether it will encourage fishing at all. Although I say everything Croatia is getting from the European Union, it has already taken Europe from Croatia. How? We sold the banks, 93% is owned by them. This year they withdraw or will withdraw from these banks, how much these same banks paid at the end of the '90s. THT, same story. Last year they pulled a profit of about 2.8 billion kuna, and there, in the late 1990s, the whole system was bought by Germans for less than 2.8 million kuna. Same story with the INA. We'll see how after this intervention, the president of the states will all fall apart, but on another occasion. Clearly, when we talk about this fishing industry, I don't mean just Adriatic fishing. Clearly, this is also about freshwater. We heard that a few years ago, we had 11,000 tons of production. Today it's reduced to about 5 grand 200 tuna plus 2,000 tons younger. There are numbers on the Adriatic, I would dare say compared to the years before the '90s. Even worse. Our fishing permanently falls, participation in foreign markets as well. The Italian catch, and most often in our part of the Adriatic, is growing. Tomorrow, when the Slovenians get those 150 square kilometers along the west coast of Istria, or when that chimney turns into open water, I think the situation will get worse here in Istria too. All in all, just to quote this Article 6 on page six, where it is said that the objectives of the structural policy in fisheries have enabled the economic, ecological, social sustainability of the entire fisheries sector through the implementation and financing of measures in line with strategic documents and specific laws, the provision of an appropriate standard of living for all fisheries entities in both the primary production and the part of adding value to the processing of production fisheries, the provision of sustainable balance between available resources and fishing capacity, strengthening the competitiveness of the sector, promoting equal representation and gender equality in the sector. I don't even know what you're getting at. I think that's less important now. But okay, let's say that these strategic provisions are in order from this quoted article. What matters to me in some way at this time even though it would be absolutely logical is the apostrophe of local self-government. Indeed, local self-government, when it comes to fishing, should be preceded, but what this local self-government will do at this time for fishing but not just fishing, when it is openly said that at least one half of the municipalities, counties, cities, in the Republic of Croatia should, perhaps, be abolished from 2012, 13. Who will enter investment today when it can be said in advance that some units of local self-government will be shut down, if that is the case, then it should already create such relations that indeed all economic activity of these entities does not stop in the period ahead of us because otherwise, and through such a form, we will put out not only many investments but through them and a whole series of jobs. The question arises as we enter the European Union tomorrow, which is what we will get when it comes to fishing incentives, which will then be. We absolutely said we don't have the number of ports, we don't have the number of warehouses, we don't have the number of fish processors we're all as if we've tried, it's been questioned, why, if it was appropriate to someone at that time, I can't understand it, but without putting our brains in my head I think we're going to be left without fishing and no one has a mandate in this country to raise their hands. Excessive fishing in our canals, along our shores, it's a story to itself. If we want to protect the Adriatic, it is not enough to protect it only against those who invade our part of the aquarium, but we must protect it from individuals who in one incorrect way dare to say abuse their position by overfishing in these channels along our islands and shores. It's just that maybe we should put an accent on it. Fishing can certainly be one important branch for Croatia, the truth of professional fishermen has only 3,000 people, but let's not all look through the workplace, through the 1% of the gross-social product, because if we have 3,000 professional fishermen, we dare say 100,000 people who deal with some kind of small fishermen, as they call it, in one word that fishing is part of our identity and regardless of the crisis and everything else, I think we need to protect this Adriatic, and those people who have left a deep trail in relation to nature at this time should be helped. As far as the law itself is concerned, we will support it but once again, I stress that without funds there is simply no real help for the fisheries market in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44602	On behalf of the HDSSB Club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44603	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's from our Slavonian point of view, from the north, so both the east of Croatia and Slavonia and Baranja, when we observe this proposal for a law on structural support and regulation of the fisheries market with the Final Bill proposal, then I still have some grades of our people in Slavonia, ordinary people who say it would be good if we farmers were to declare ourselves fishermen, then those in Djuri Djakovic say it would be good if "Djuro Djakovic" were declared a shipyard then they would better stand. When I ask them why, they say, you see a doctor, a hectare of corn is a limit of 150 liters of blue diesel, and in that southern part of Croatia there is no limit to blue diesel for boats, boats and other things. And not only that, in our ponds, starting with the nearest in Brod Stupnik, Sibinj, Bebrina, the municipality of Trilj in Slavonski brod, once the largest fishermen in our country, then at Nasic, then at Okućana pond, then in Caglin pond, there is growing chess and reeds, and there is less fishing. Someone here told statistics that it was 4.5 thousand tons of fish compared to 11 grand before the war. Here I also received a letter to the Croatian Parliament by email from one of the fish producers from Slavonia, from Caglin, who has his own comments that I will translate into amendments to this bill by the end of the debate. So, this producer, and when I studied the Law itself and its articles, writes that this bill is one more satisfying form for the purpose of continuing negotiations with the European Union than it is clear and precise, therefore considers it vague and inaccurate. I'll explain later why there's a reason why. Moreover, even more so, it is considered that this Law will not do much in the area of fisheries, that it will make the most of working intermediaries, and at least help producers and end-users. We know that the Republic of Croatia has fish consumption per capita among the lowest in Europe and the world. Therefore, when it comes to measures to support the development of aqua culture, Article 12 of this Law, it is considered to be good to give priority to the cultivation of fish younger indigenous species of freshwater fish obtained by natural oak. So in this, in all these articles, the proposal of this law does not say a single word. So, it's about giving priority to the farming of fish younger indigenous species of freshwater fish obtained by natural soil. For example, the fish species is a cylinder that is not of some great market importance because it does not reach the size that would be significant, but from the point of view and the point of view of Slavonia of the indigenous Slavonic species and very consummated, it is very delicate to say. And this kind of thing in this bill, there's no talking about, so I'm going to make an amendment, and I'm going to base it on a memo, so a little fish producer in Slavonia. In the case of projects of common interest, Article 13, it is necessary to determine who is relevant to determine which projects are of common interest and what projects they are. These... in the area of freshwater from those in the area of marine fisheries, and when it comes to joint action, it is unclear what it is and whose actions it is, the joint actions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's not defined. Furthermore, is the area and community considered to be dependent on fisheries in Article 14 only on the coast and the area along rivers, lakes and ponds, as set out in the introductory part of the draft law? So, those who already have existing production, or are there areas that are suitable for the development of such activities even though there is no such activity at present? Because this proposal actually just legalized and supported those areas that already have developed this branch of the economy. But do we want to develop further fishing in those parts of Croatia and towns, municipalities, counties where this has not yet been developed, but there are conditions? There are good conditions, natural, ecological and all others. So these are the sayings of the substitutes, the remarks of one to say to a small fish producer in Slavonia, and here I think that if you allow the secretary of state to have some basis in this, that these questions are based on objective circumstances stemming from articles of this law. Article 15 is related to the achievement of support, so fishing support says it is unclear and incomplete, leaving a huge space for malfeasance, abuse. As in any other law which provides for the right to provide some support, and we know what abuses are involved in some other areas. So we talk about agriculture and about others where they can be very easy and where they reveal themselves every day and they know how to abuse support. They are familiar with persons who abuse and support, with a blessing or with the glare of inspections and some other competent authorities in this regard. That's why, here's one more time to go back, namely the other day I was in one of our department stores, a large chain, which has a large chain of department stores, and I bought it, hoping it was our sardine because large letters were written in sardines, so some of our factories and capacities that were halved or decimated after the war, the sardine. When I looked at the declaration, I had already come home, and I see that the sardine was produced in Nis. So, the Low Sardine Factory, you can think of Serbia and its sea capacities and fishing to have the sardines produced in Nis, and the raw materials of the Republic of Croatia, the origin of raw materials, say. I think you've met it on our departments of our department stores and our domestic department stores, right? So these farmers of ours who have come to me and suggested a little bit of this debate and when they talk about fishing and when they talk about blue diesel that is unlimited in this part, let me tell the blues, and when it comes to the greens, then it's limited, let's say for corn to 150 liters of diesel per hectare. Although this field is not plowed, it is not dug, it is not sown, it is not fertilized, but it is compared to the green diesel that is used in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, and with a limit of 150 liters of diesel per hectare. So then they say, maybe we should call ourselves Pannonian fishermen who don't exist, and here I'm saying Đura Djakovica's workers suggest that Đuro become a shipyard, can produce spoons for Sava, Danube, can pots for exports to China, etc. It may be reorientable and production, but it's not the subject of this. The Adriatic Sea, and here someone was talking about the outing, so you see how much I know our sea, the Mare nostrum Croaticum, and the other side, closer to the Italian coast, the old Greeks and the Romans and the Turks and the Milks and the Slovenians, and who doesn't, and yet there's fishing. There are 3,000 professional fishermen in the Republic of Croatia who, according to Cain's words, regardless of the legal provisions, and without investment and investment, will not benefit much from this bill. How are they and how much money are there to say this peopleally in the fish markets on our shores? I know of a Rijeka that stares empty and for others. What results were obtained by fish farmers, and in fact there should have been capital investments on the Adriatic coast, on the Croatian coast, in connection with production, transport and everything else concerning fishing in the Republic of Croatia. It's not as much a ZERP limiting factor or factor for our fish production, to increase fish consumption in the Republic of Croatia, as many other things are. I said in the opening statement that I would submit amendments to what I was talking about in this debate, and then we will see how the Secretary of State and the Ministry will react to these amendments, so that I leave the support or support of this law to end at the vote. I'm still not sure whether the HDSSB club will support the bill or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44604	Thank you. I'm announcing that at 10:53, it's past the time for a ten-minute hearing. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44605	Thank you very much. Mr. President, representatives of the promoters, governments, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party club will support this bill. The first and basic reason why and why, and this is a law that is in line with the legislation of the European Union. But what is particularly important, one of the very important laws in the creation of the total infrastructure, in order to make the resources that will be available to us, the European Union's resources can at all be used to make our own people involved in the economic activity of fishing, whether it is freshwater or marine, so that they can use the positive advantages that are being opened to us by entering the European Union. In principle, I only want to say two things about fishing itself. And with absolutely certain in terms of comparative advantages, there's a whole series of them. And that is, firstly, that the net foreign exchange is positive, so it has more exports than imports, one of the very rare economic branches and freshwater and sea, that our fisheries sector has a strong potential in its comparative advantages, primarily because of the ecological quality of the sea, rivers, other freshwater. And if we're going to use that comparative advantage wisely in the time ahead, that depends solely on us. And in order to make use of that between the other assets that we've been given as potential, are we going to make use of those funds, which I personally doubt, but we're going to do it a little later. In fact, Europe has had its common fisheries policy since 1992. They had one strong reform in '83. And the last reform Europe made was in 2002. I repeat in 2002. We had fisheries reforms every year, and almost depending on how the government came or how the minister sat down in the ministry's ministerial chair or when eventually the water came to the fishermen' throat, and then a little more intensely upset the public. There are certain measures to be taken, but in general I repeat, Europe made its reform in 2002. We're only doing our reform now. This is the first law in a series now, the first law in a series when we talk about fishing, the first law in a series, and there are others we need to bring, which allows our fishing policy, that economic branch to enable it to do what Europe has done in 2002. I want to remind you that all these years we've had various doubts. ZERP, we brought it in, of national importance and because of the issue of national importance, we gave up on it. But that's less important. Far more important and there was the attitude of the Croatian People's Party club and I have to remind and I want to remind and then we talked when we brought ZERP that it wasn't the point of the story in ZERP but the point of the story was whether we created an infrastructure that would enable fishermen to restore their technological capacities. And then, in conclusion, the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party, adopted the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament and set deadlines within which the Resoring Ministry and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Sea will provide in their budgetary positions the funds strictly intended for the restoration of the fishing fleet, for the restoration of technological capacities. That didn't happen. The conclusion was accepted, there was a series of budgets later, however, in no budget did the story happen. That's not good. That's not good. Not to list strong scientific discussions about the length of the ship, the number of nets, when we talk about freshwater fishing, fish-eating birds, high water charges, technology, etc. Here is a whole series of problems that follow this economic branch that has comparative advantages, especially those of the ecological, ecological denominator and a positive net foreign exchange inflow. However, we have what we have and the fact is that in the area of agriculture since they were published, which is about the last 6 months, since the dimension of the financial envelope has been published in general as certain, that we in the Croatian Parliament are changing the whole series of laws, to create the necessary infrastructure and that in 2012, thirteen could benefit from these funds. It's just saying that it's simply not serious about this problem of agriculture so far, and fishing is part of that economic sector, that this business has not been responsibly approached, it has not been. It has often been politicised, often bought both political similarities and political support, often spending state money. And I want to remind you of the SAPARD and the use of SAPARD, I want to remind you that through capital support we financed the same thing that we had on the outside. We didn't use the outside funds, and the locals did. So I'm afraid something similar might happen here and this space, because we're going to adopt this law and hopefully all together unanimously. Because we are definitely all aware together that something that is necessary is also an infrastructure for an important economic branch, but also this law comes into force 1. 1. 2010. The government shall adopt a national strategic plan by 1. 1. 2010 means 10 months. The government is adopting a national strategic plan. The Operational Programme to implement the National Strategic Plan will be adopted by the Government no later than three months before the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of the European Union. I think these three dates talk enough about folk tea, inaction so far and the need for an emergency reaction, and to create conditions that we can withdraw some of the 23m euros available for fishing in 2012. 30.7 million available in potential or in total in two years 53 million. Our reality, according to the assessment of people dealing with this, somewhere around 20 million, means twice as small, 50%. Personally, we at the Croatian People's Party club are almost certain if 20% will be extremely good, and that 20% will not be if we don't pass this law, if we don't get it, if the government doesn't adopt the National Strategic Plan and the Operational Programme. And I think and there's our main observation, we at the Croatian People's Party club that these deadlines are pre-remended because in the whole story that we're talking about today, we're talking about legislation, we're talking about a legislative basis, and where in all this, the fishermen are the ones who are going to use it. How they prepared themselves, did they prepare themselves, based on what they had prepared. Can fishermen today think about withdrawing 20 million, 23 million euros available in 2012 when we will have a strategic and operational plan at the end of 2010, and an operational programme of three months before our entry into the European Union. I understand that these deadlines are also defined in the negotiating process, but I would like to personally stress that the fact that we at the Croatian People's Party Club have always warned us that we are late, that we are late with concrete legislation that will enable the potential that the European Union is giving us, and in the meantime we have dealt with all sorts of political issues and confused poor fishermen, confused all those who work in this area. Not just in this area, but in other activities. The fact is that strong changes are being made in the entire agricultural sector in terms of support, in terms of establishing the criteria for the right to support and a whole series of these. And what is most tragic in all of this, we get one Agriculture Act and unfortunately the ruling majority adopts it, and what law will the Croatian public be reported through that "green report" via "National Journals". I think it's an insult to people's common sense and logic, and I don't think it's good, and it's because of that kind of relationship, and now we're in this fishing policy in teat. Therefore, not to be prolonged, the Croatian People's Party club will support this bill. The Croatian People's Party Club warns both the Ministry and the Government that these remaining documents are necessary and what part of the entire infrastructure is needed in order for our fishermen to be able to withdraw those funds that are potentially defined, which I repeat 54m euros in two years, that these documents are referred to the Parliament as soon as possible and that the Parliament can verify that, in the meantime, we can also educate those who will use these support in the fisheries sector, to educate them on the possibilities. And how and how this will happen later in practice is very difficult to say, but I repeat, because of responsibility to the fisheries sector on the one hand, because of responsibility for the resources offered to us, in the area of fisheries it is 53 million on the other hand and complete agriculture. Look, in total agriculture, we have a two-year potential of 680 million. At this point, according to all mathematics, we have an absorption power of 200 million euros less. I doubt we can make it up in two years, I doubt it. Today we're talking practically 15 minutes before 12 about a legal text that we should have brought in a long time ago, and we need it. Soon we will have the same area, it is regional development, a law on regional development that is under discussion, which definitely prevents any fundamental regional development. Therefore, I think that the irresponsibility of such a kind of divided people in the government that have been proven at the Ministry of Agriculture, and now in regional development, I think it is too much for Croatian voters to pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44606	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear colleague Nevenka Marinović. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44607	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Here, when we talk about the Structural Support Act and the regulation of the fisheries market, I want first to present this segment briefly through the review of the activities of marine fisheries and economic indicators of fishing in Zadar County and in the Republic of Croatia. The fishing in Croatia is carried out at 34 thousand kilometres of the square territorial sea and 21 thousand miles [21 thousand km] further, and the catch of sea fish in 2008 was 48.9 thousand tonnes, of which 41.6 thousand tonnes of blue fish, 4.8 thousand tonnes of white and 2.8 thousand tonnes of rest. It is the year when the Republic of Croatia reached catch of pre-war quantities. Since 1998, there has been an increase in catches of blue fish and this tiny blue fish almost twice, as the high demand for salt incubation has caused a constant increase in fishing. Salt fish are almost entirely exported to Italy, slightly less to Spain, and whitefish fishing is almost the same during that period. The number of fishermen in economic fishing is 3740 and it is increasing, the number of fishing vessels slightly higher than 3700 and it is also increasing. As far as cultural matters in the Republic of Croatia are concerned, it includes white fish farming, which is a brand and arable, whose production in 2008 was 4 and a half thousand tonnes or 29% of total cultivation. The production of tuna of 3711 tonnes. Here we have a reduction due to the catch quotas prescribed by the International Organisation for the Protection of Bluefin tuna and accounts for 41% of total farming. We still have farming mussels and stones that make up about 30% of total farming. But in the market value of tuna, it holds a significantly higher share of almost 75% of about $150m worth of plasma, white fish 19, and clams only 6%. As regards the economic indicators of fishing in the Republic of Croatia, the gross added value of fishing activity according to the available data from the State Statistics Office in 2001 increased from 284.7 million kuna to 410.6 million kuna in 2004. I'm going to use the financial indicators for 2007 because of the change, because of the new nomenclature because the signs shown are aggregated for agriculture and fishing, and this is what they say for 2007. So fishing has 855 million total income, 801 million kuna total expenditure and about 70 million kuna profits before tax. From the balance sheet from 2000 to 2008, there is a surplus in this activity ranging from $300,000 to a maximum of 59 million in 2006. I would like to point out that fishing is one of the few branches with the production of tobacco, cereals, sugar and medicinal plants that has a constant surplus in the trade of goods, as evidenced by the data for the period of January – August 2009. The incentives in this segment were meaning, ranging from 45 million to 96 million kuna. As regards Zadar County, which is the epicenter of fishing in the Republic of Croatia, there is fishing traditional activity of our importance both on the coast and on the island, but is the source of existence for a large number of island and coastal populations. The first branding and submersibles were grown in Zadar in 1979, and the first tuna growing in the Mediterranean in 1996 in Kali tuna farm near the island of Iža. The Kalska fishing fleet is still the strongest in the Adriatic, and over 80% of the salt capacity is in the Zadar County area. With several physical and financial indicators, I'll try to present here the fisheries of Zadar County. In this area there are 540 fishermen, which craftsmen and businesses. About 2600 small fishermen and about 3,000 ships, all of which are over 90 feet [15 m]. Fishing in Zadar County includes fishing for small and large blue fish, which accounts for 35% of the total catches in the Republic of Croatia, and the most significant types of catches as I have previously said incun and heartfish that are also the base for the processing industry. So salting, but also for tuna farming. The breeding of white fish consisting of bran and plowing, means in 11 growers about 250,000 metres of concentrated area is grown 1600 tonnes per year. Tuna farming takes place in four growing sites on 860,000 concentrated areas and there is growing about 2500 tonnes a year. Capacities are much higher, but here are the restrictions of the International Organisation for the Protection of Bluefin tuna. And the next is the processing and salting of tiny blue fish that is very important in the Zadar County area. As for the financial indicators in the area of the county, for 2008, 427.8 million kuna is total income, about 20 million kunas of net profits. The data is based on reports of 60 companies who submitted financial reports and employed 734 people. A '98. In this segment there were 273 employees, 33 companies and 82.3 million kuna. So the number of companies doubled. The number of employees is almost three times higher, and total revenues have increased more than five times. 10 of the 20 largest exporters in 2008 are the companies of fishing activities in the Zadar County, and this speaks of the importance of this branch of the economy, meaning for Zadar County, but also for the economy of the Republic of Croatia. It should be pointed out, and it seems to me that so far it's been here that it hasn't been built, that it hasn't been installed in the fleet enough. I point out with importance that state measures to encourage the construction of the fleet have led, so with a little bit of ship imports, to the extent that in swimmers, or a fleet of larger vessels for the fishing of bluefish, satisfactory capacities have taken place, i.e. that this segment is strong enough. In 2008, with 150 million kuna, the Ministry helped the fisheries sector through direct incentives, through the price of blue diesel, and all in order for Croatian fishermen to become competitive by entering the European Union by co-financing other things. Here this has resulted in fishing being a hero of exports with exceptional growth in the past year, meaning January to September. Important processing facilities have been opened, which means that this activity attracts investment. Here's an example of Ostre, so in Stankovci it's the largest and most modern drive of its kind in Europe, not in Croatia. However, there are problems in fishing that fishermen have warned about at their 14th meeting of fishermen recently held on Pag, which is the need to adopt a new Fisheries Strategy, the problem of the cold chain, the acceptance of caught fine blue fish is limited by the capacity of a freezer, or a freezing tunnel, and this is then caused by imports and other deer, but also herring which is certainly not good. It's also pointed to the problem of landing sites. And here it was about the fish and resolving that status in all the spatial plans of the units of local self-government. Regulation of the small coastal fishing institution was also mentioned with respect to social and age censorship, but also to increase the efficiency of fish traffic control among all participants and another problem. At the recent meeting of the International Organisation for the Protection of Bluefin tuna, the problem which also touches significantly our fishermen has reduced the total catch quota from 580 to 395 tonnes. These drastic measures will inevitably reflect on the business of 6 Croatian tuna growers, but also numerous fishermen associated with them either by catching tuna for cages, or by catching blue fish for their diet. It is certainly more difficult to do the work of tuna growers, and the continuation of this entry job will depend not only on these quotas, but also on the market in particular in Japanese, where the price of tuna is halved this year. Here, this proposal for a law on structural support and regulation of the fisheries market also allows for the implementation of targeted programmes and the adoption of a national fisheries programme, as well as operational programmes. They are basic documents that prescribe priorities in fisheries and the financing of individual projects. This bill respects and includes these problems in fishing that I have mentioned significantly. But I would like to stress that the important documents provided for by this bill should be brought in partnership with all those who mean something in fishing, primarily fishermen. Because our aim is to bring legislation into line with European but also to ensure maximum protection of the interests of Croatian fisheries and fishermen. In addition to horizontal and vertical cooperation in drawing up such important documents, but also implementing rules, this will be possible in quality. Here's hoping it'll all be so good I'll support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44608	Thank you very much. We have one application for replica, colleague Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44609	Dear fellow MPs, what you've said of course stands, but it seems to me that you've given the weight on fishing, especially speaking of tuna fishing. And I'd supplement, you won't mind the necessity and protection of the same tuna. Because the fact is that she's on a fishing trip and maybe she's missing, and if that happens, then all these fishermen won't have anything to do anymore. And that is why it is not bad if we have already exceeded those limits of its extraction, with Croatia certainly not being ahead of it. There some other states picked up everything they had to pick up. But the fact is that Croatia will also have to pay for such an irrational behaviour towards the natural world, including that tuna. And when we talk about tunas and their farming, you stressed the importance of this particular fish for Croatian fisheries, but since that is the case, and I think that in Zadar it is a good idea that in other counties, for example in Split-Dalmatia, and in particular the island of Brac, similar standards apply. For it would be good, both for the protection of the fish itself and for the protection, or for the equal position of all fishermen, to adhere strictly to the law when it comes to the farming of that fish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44610	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44611	Here you go, buddy. I'm going to protect you anyway, and you need to watch out for protection just as you mentioned, but I'm holding that none better than our fishermen who have known for thousands of years to protect this sea and the resources they've lived on, none of them will know that better than they do. But I'll mention here that here's Zadar County really went the farthest in all of this, with strict protection and strict rules. So the Zadar County model could have taken over the others and gone this far as Zadar County went in concessioning and in the results we have. But then you reminded me to say that here and the fishermen were looking for better cooperation with scientific institutions where there really is space, which should provide a good basis for protecting the sea. Because they know that on a clear sea just like this, it's based on the production of these.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44612	Thank you very much. Further to the debate, an esteemed colleague, Branko Boxti, applied. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44613	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Fishing in Croatia plays an important social and economic role, although productivity is generally low, efficient and sustainable, and sea management and coastal areas are still of little importance. The fundamental principle of Croatian fisheries development is its sustainability, which should be based on interdependence on its three pillars, economic development, social justice and environmental protection. Fisheries is one of our rare economic branches where exports are larger than imports. Croatia has been exporting about $30,000 a year worth of $160m, and imports about $50,000 worth of $100m. The export of fish accounts for 15% of the exports of our agricultural food products. That this year Croatian fishing will achieve good... The results also show the data according to which fish and fish processing were exported for 305 million kuna in January 2009, which is for 223 million kuna more than in January 2008. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] Croatia does not have enough white fish to compete more seriously on the demanding European market, covered by offers from around the world, but our fish are of exceptional quality, and all quantities offered can easily be found by a buyer in the European Union. According to some studies, the possibility of annual fishing for small blue fish in our part of the Adriatic is about 200 thousand tonnes, which means that Croatian fishermen now extract only 20% of the same quantities from the sea per year. This is encouraging information for all those who have invested considerable money in the construction of new boats for fishing, but those who have built or built fish processing facilities. As part of the state programme of reconstruction and modernisation of the fishing fleet, with the state support of 30% of the grant money, 15 new large fishing vessels have been built so far. My colleague Koračević used to say it seems to me exactly the opposite. I don't know if he listened to the wrong data or if he didn't read it right. The average fish consumption per capita in Croatia barely reaches 10kg, well below the average of European countries, and the reason is the lack of well-organised market, and the lack of coastal infrastructure with cooling, freezing and storage facilities. I am therefore pleased that the government has accepted proposals and suggestions from the Committee on Agriculture and will be resolved through the amendments. This ultimately results in higher retail prices. Support should be directed towards building and improving the overall fisheries structure with much more significant assistance from the European Union funds. Since I come as well as my colleague Marinovic from the most fishing county, which is Zadar County, where 30% of the total fish are caught. So the most significant species are the heart and anchovies that are the base for the processing industry. A colleague also mentioned that about 60 companies were registered. A colleague was Cain before speaking all black about fishing, starting with the number of employees, the number of legal persons, etc. So our county is speaking exactly the opposite. Starting with the number of employees from the last year which has increased three times, and thus the funds, or profits achieved during the period. The structural aid law and the regulation of the fisheries market is a complete novelty and significantly changes the way it is now in place. The proposed law changes the way it is encouraged by kilograms, i.e. by volume produced or caught, according to the structural support as usual in the European Union. Although the old support system remains in the European Union until the entry into the European Union, it should now begin the adjustment to make better use of future European Union funds for fisheries. This Law allows the implementation of targeted programmes and the adoption of national fisheries programmes, and operational programmes. They are basic documents that prescribe priorities in fisheries and the financing of individual projects. I will personally not repeat this information mentioned by my colleague Marinovic, from our county to support the adoption of this law and I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44614	Thank you very much, dear fellow Box. A distinguished colleague representative, Tonino Picula, applied for the debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44615	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. As a country with a coast of 5 thousand 835km, including 1185 islands and reefs, Croatia traditionally depends on the sea and its treasures. According to the latest census, almost 1/3 of Croatian citizens live by the sea, and its existence in general or at least partly depends on coastal environments and marine wealth. Fishing has always been important for the lives of residents, and many coastal and island communities depend largely on fishing, which, along with tourism, provides the only opportunity for employment and thus the basic source of income. This is so much more important to say after the coastal part of our country has practically been deindustrated in the last 10 years. The sea and sea fishing are firmly embedded in our traditional identity and are indivisibly connected to it. The marine environment, culture, history, fishing tradition and heritage testify to the values we share with other Mediterranean civilization and cultural circles. It is important for Croatia to maintain a Mediterranean way of life, which includes traditional gastronomy based on fish and seafood. Fishing therefore does not only have an economic value for Croatia but also has a far wider impact on the coastal region. Fishing in Croatia includes several subsectors, freshwater aqua culture, catch of freshwater fish, sea aqua culture, catch of sea fish, processing of fish and other marine organisms as well as complete control and inspection. It is carried out in the area of 34 thousand square kilometers of the territorial sea and in freshwater systems of our two main Sava and Danube rivers with tributaries. Sea fishing is of a commercial nature and is divided into a coastal area and open sea. Gambling is the main activity of coastal fishing while brewery, tunafish, dominates the open sea. Generally speaking, this sector is very sensitive. Except for tuna growing seriously in Croatia, the total share of fishing in gross domestic products is less than 1%. In the European Union itself, as in Croatia, gross domestic product is not significant because it is less than 1%. European fishermen catch about 5.8 million tonnes annually, producing 7.3 million tonnes of fish. Of which, less than 10% or about 500 thousand tonnes are caught on the Mediterranean itself. Otherwise, only 2% of the world's catch of fish comes from the Mediterranean. The Union's strongest fishing force is Denmark, which catches 17%, followed by Spain with 15%, and then France with 12 and Britain with 11%. Croatia would take up about 1% of the market by entering the European Union. Despite the fairly large production and export of fish, the European Union notes the external trade in fisheries deficit due to significantly higher imports. Croatia stands here better with the tobacco industry of marine fisheries is the only exporter that operates positively and annually exports mostly tuna, incuns and sreds worth about $160 million, which makes up about 15% of agricultural food exports. Our imports are less than $70 million. Today, Croatia numbers about 300 large fishing vessels between 25m and 40m, as well as about 700 smaller ones with 3,000 professional fishermen. For the past 10 years, the fleet has been under-rejuvenated and ten new ships have been built and more new ones have been purchased. Annual catches of the Croatian fleet have been moving around the already mentioned 50 thousand tonnes of fish in recent years. The big problem that fishermen stress is that there are only data on the amount of fish caught but not species. There's an eyewitness who's incomplete and unsightly for our submarine. We must coordinate the legal gains of the European Union but try to adapt it according to our business because there are differences between Europe and us. European fishermen have organised landing sites, arrivals and stalkings of the entire developed strategy. Of course, these problems must be resolved soon because we still have a big job to do. In addition, Croatian Fisheries wants to join the European Union with all its specificities, which means protecting some of our traditional fishing tools and techniques that the European acquis does not know. One of our specificities here is the small fishing that allows, above all, islanders and people in coastal places to catch 5 kilograms of fish daily for their needs using some professional tools. On the other hand, professional fishermen believe that a good part of their problems with fish placement stems from this unfair competition because amateur fishermen released from all giving to the state, with only paying for the annual fishing licence for the black sale of fish. Although fishing in both us and in the countries of the European Union is not a dominant economic activity, the fishing activity carried out on the ground is of exceptional importance, so it is inevitable for the existence and development of island and coastal communities. When we talk about this, we are not only talking about the economic and economic part of fishing but about its social and traditional meaning. The overfishing of certain natural resources was a supply of the Adriatic, already in effect. Except for changes in the structure of the fish population where some species have been led to the brink of extinction. Changes are also visible in the quantities of catches which are such that fishing can become questionable both in terms of profitability and in terms of sustainability. Catching once out to sea is a constant decline. The catch of the brake has been reduced almost to a third of the usual one 50 years ago. The 13th chapter, called Fisheries, is one of the few that are still unopened. Its opening was blocked by Slovenia because Slovenian Foreign Minister Zbogar makes substantive remarks, to assume that the substantive remarks concern unresolved border issues between our two countries, as ZERP does not apply to EU member states. Which brings Croatian fishermen into an unenviable position especially because of quantitative and qualitatively superior competitors from Italy. Negotiators are convinced that when the negotiation process begins very quickly and ends. They point out in this legislative and structural preparation, where this proposal for a law is a prerequisite for achieving all the desired objectives and this is a developed and competitive Croatian fisheries within the European Union. My colleagues and colleagues, the fact that by adopting this proposal for a law, we change our attitude towards one important substance after the deficiencies or worsening of the fish market have been identified. The job of this proposal is well done, the only regret I have is in the development of one of the main objectives of this bill. In addition to the main objective of adapting the support system to the EU's common fisheries policy and preserving the community and protecting the environment, it has been stated. I didn't come across a part that deals specifically with environmental protection where I actually see the deficits of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44616	Thank you very much. We have two reports, one is a replica. First, a colleague, Marin Jurjevic, applied for the replica. Here you go, colleague Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44617	Thank you. A colleague, Picula, mentioned, quotes him: "Croatia traditionally depends on the sea" and another "it is important to preserve the Mediterranean way of life." I absolutely agree with that, but I think that both is neglected and that the great tragedy of Croatia that ignores this Mediterranean dimension of Croatia, which ignores that Croatia is part of this cradle of European civilization, that its longest border is the Adriatic Sea and therefore I agree with what you said that fishing has not only economic importance but we must understand it in one way of life, not reducing the importance of all those living at sea, but it is also about the loss of a cultural matrix of a millennium of life that is slowly being destroyed. I'd just like to mention our one inappropriate relationship and resources in the budget that stand out to suppress invasive, so aggressive algae as... who attack the Adriatic coast and threaten to destroy life in it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Returning to the Mediterranean way of life and valorizing is essential, in my opinion, important for Croatia's future and dimensioning Croatia as a Mediterranean country is in its favour, and what we forget too often and seems no longer an accident.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44618	Thank you very much. Replication response, fellow Picula.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44619	Dear counterpart Jurjević, we both come from this Mediterranean circle of Croatia, and we do show appropriate sensitivity whenever we see something happening in Croatian politics that can be called a distance from the Adriatic. Croatia has been on the shores of the eastern Adriatic coast for 1000 years now. However, I dare say that in the past 20 years, besides, of course, certain moves that are commendable, mentioned by deindustrization, we have made often migrations from shore to land are also irreversible migrations. I think that the task is also the Croatian Parliament, and primarily the executive authorities, that it has a significant impact on the interest of settlement, especially a number of people devastated in demographic terms in the islands and in the coast, so that if we at least start to follow examples from Europe which, this year, has shown that we are a strong migration destination of millions of people who are better than we recognize all the qualitative and quantitative benefits of life along the Adriatic Sea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44620	Thank you very much. And another application for replica, dear colleague Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44621	The colleagues of the Mediterranean circle will not mind if someone comes from this Central European, continental circle to say something about fishing, and I especially agree with your colleague’s observation that there are no parts that would be particularly concerned with environmental protection in this law, except where the need for environmental protection is stated in half, because the fishing industry will not be if we absorb everything alive or alive, or alive that swims. I'm saying if we move a little bit from sea to land, we can see what's going on with the Danube River where I'm from. There's far less fish than there was before. And the fishermen are dissatisfied, the mere fishermen are dissatisfied because the control only hangs them while normally all the tools hang neatly in those floody areas where the fish is kept. If we want control, then control should be the same for everyone. Let's get back to the sea. We're talking about the law here, the content, and that basic framework we dropped. For 4 years, we kept talking about the need to introduce a protected eco-fishing belt as a fundamental assumption that all of this could come to life. This is not done by our fishermen but primarily by Italian fishermen. And what happened after four years of severe political demands to introduce it? We have quietly missed the introduction of this component for EU Member States, i.e. Italy first and foremost. So as we talk about the protection of fishing and the promotion of fishing, the fish will disappear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44622	Thank you very much. Replication response, fellow Picula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44623	Thank you very much, dear colleague, for reminding me, but I also believe the Croatian public that actually here we will soon be celebrating the anniversary when it was very seriously approached for the first time by a project to protect the Croatian part of the Adriatic, which in the last 50 years has been exposed to the serious devastation of fish and other funds. Here we know, and there are colleagues who have warned us for years that the Italians are doing exactly because of the unprotection of our part of the territorial sea, since whenever you come to Ancon or Pescar, you simply follow when you see what kind of fishing fleet is tied up and what are the possibilities of Italian fishing to exploit the Adriatic Sea. The only thing missing is the fish factories, the factory ships, and the natural devastation takes over the final technology facility. My colleague Pancic, I am truly sorry that we were not consistent with the implementation of the protected eco-fishing belt because, as you know, he had all the qualities of the exclusively economic belt, along with some of its markings, and to believe that it would be replaced, however, by something called the protection of the Adriatic Aquatory with European fisheries policy, because fortunately in recent years, there have been some shifts, as I have said in my presentation here, and Europe has realized that by overfishing it cuts the branch on which thousands of European fishing families sit. Here, we have been pioneers in this attempt, but politics has brutally stopped us, and today's bill of law is one of the attempts to make up for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44624	Thank you very much. Further to the debate, distinguished counterpart Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic applied. She's gone. She's losing her right to argue. Kreso Filipovic, fellow representative, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44625	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here we are today discussing another extremely important matter which is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, namely the matter relating to the fisheries sector or specifically to the draft law that touches the sector. Here is a colleague of Picula and colleague Nevenka Marinović, who talked a lot about the importance of fishing both in the Republic of Croatia and in the place where our fishing industry is located in relation to our environment. And I think it was interesting to listen to that information. But this is why I said we were discussing another extremely important matter, just for reasons to recall some details or information. Firstly, in the middle of this year, we adopted the Law on State Support in Agriculture and Rural Development, which has significantly brought domestic agricultural legislation into line on market price policy and rural development measures with the common agricultural policy of the European Union. We also discussed last week and passed the Law on the Organisation of the Markets for Agricultural Products. And secondly, to remind ourselves that the aid policy, i.e. the 2002 market price and structural fisheries policy measures, is still being implemented in accordance with that old law on state support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry, so in accordance with the provisions still in force after the new law was passed. We must conclude here that such a policy, which is currently being conducted in the Republic of Croatia, is not in line with the common fisheries policy of the European Union. So in this part too, we need to make practical adjustments, which is the last thing that seems to be done with this bill. The activity of fishing in the Republic of Croatia is currently defined and regulated by the Law on Marine Fisheries and the Law on freshwater fisheries, which essentially regulate the issue of catch and cultivation of aquatic organisms, as well as issues related to the protection of living treasures of the sea and freshwater. Thus, the fisheries policy of the Republic of Croatia today primarily includes technical resource management measures by defining the conditions and methods of carrying out different economic and other forms of fishing, measures to regulate breeding activities, and measures to monitor and control what is really the backbone of each fisheries policy. However, despite the fact that the fisheries policy of the Republic of Croatia is in line with the common agricultural policy of the European Union, it does not include other relevant components and policies, which relate to the regulation of the markets and measures of the structural policy in fisheries. Therefore, given the fact that I was already in the preamble and said that the market price policy of the Republic of Croatia is not defined in an adequate manner, and that the system of support in fisheries is implemented through direct payments related to production quantities, then through the system of support for capital investments and production insurance from possible damages and finally through the implementation of certain targeted programmes. It is clear that the current situation in the Republic of Croatia, if we look at it in the context of the European Union's common fisheries policy, is simply not sustainable. This applies in particular to incentives paid on the basis of production quantities, i.e. per kilogram, piece and the like. However, it is important to stress that such practice will continue until the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, which I personally consider very good for our fishermen. This is why it is of exceptional importance to bring the structural policy in fisheries in line with the provisions of the common fisheries policy of the European Union, and to establish appropriate systems in a timely manner, i.e. to establish administrative structures and to adopt the necessary implementing rules, as this is the only way in this pre-accession period to facilitate the adaptation of the fishing sector, and to enable the quality of the positioning of Croatian fishermen and fish products producers on the single market of the European Union. What I think is very important about this law, that we are heading towards the preparation of our fishermen, to prepare ourselves for everything that awaits us by entering the European Union. And here I will mention that this is important because our fishermen will be able to use the European Fisheries Fund, which weighs about 4.6 billion euros for this seven-year financial perspective. Furthermore, I would like to say that Mr Kovacevic also spoke on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, how the European Union's common fisheries policy defines producer organisations with basic mechanisms, the implementation of the fisheries market policy. And therefore not to repeat everything Mr Kovacevic said in terms of price fixing on the market, in terms of the organisation of catches, the definition of the quantity of catches etc. So they implement a number of market mechanisms that benefit those who are members of these producer organisations, where they actually improve their market position. It is important here to stress that no such measures are provided for in any law in the Republic of Croatia, or our legislation simply does not recognise such measures. For all this and for the successful completion of the negotiations under Chapter 13. – Fisheries and insurance of further assumptions for full membership in the European Union, it is necessary to coordinate the fisheries policy mechanisms of the Republic of Croatia with the provisions of the common agricultural policy of the European Union, thus establishing an effective system of structural support in fisheries at the end and at the level of the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, it is proposed to adopt the Structural Support Act and the regulation of the fisheries market which, in accordance with the relevant Council Regulations of the European Union, establish the basic mechanisms necessary for the implementation of structural support measures as part of support for fisheries, define the way in which the markets are regulated by fishery products and establish mechanisms for preventing and combating and eliminating illegal fishing, and finally regulate support issues in a specific status that do not have the character of structural support but are in line with the general rules on the European Union's state support. Of course, we want to be a little more concrete by the draft law, among other things, the strategic elements for implementing the structural support measures in fisheries, i.e. the national strategic plan for fisheries development and the operational programme, the necessary administrative structure for implementing structural support measures, such as the administrative directorate, the certification body and the audit body, the areas of priorities and measures that can be financed, the rights and obligations of the beneficiaries of structural support measures, the market standards for certain fisheries and aqua culture products, the establishment of producer organisations, and their role in the implementation of certain provisions of the law are laid down, as well as in the European Union. In a special way, fishing cooperatives are recognised, due to the specificity of the fisheries sector in the Republic of Croatia, etc. Finally, in view of the belief that the adoption of the proposed law in addition to bringing our system of support closer to those within the common fisheries policy of the European Union, we will contribute to raising the competitiveness of the fisheries sector through the improvement of the necessary structure, and the production capacity in the growing and fish processing industry, I will personally support the full adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44626	Thank you very much. We have one application for replication. Dear colleague Neda Klaric. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44627	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague would only say, I agree, actually because he very concisely included the amendments to this law, but also a colleague would say that this law is certainly another additional quality, an additional contribution that will bring to the actual unfair competition that we still have, will contribute to environmental protection. For let us not, colleagues and colleagues forget that in 2006, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposed and the Parliament adopted the Regulation on the protected coastal area of the sea. But it should also be repeated over and over again that a new space is being opened by this law which will allow units of local, regional self-government, mainly through regional operational programmes to perfect and develop this very important economic activity, respecting the social, cultural and traditional things that we definitely need to cultivate in this area that we are talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44628	Thank you very much. There's no need to answer, okay. Then let's move on with the debate. Dear colleague Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44629	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. Therefore, before us is a law whose adoption has great importance for the timely involvement of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. Croatian fisheries in the market flows of the European Union, in the most important area, which is the regulation of the fishing market and the definition of structural support measures in fisheries. If this harmonisation or better said adjustment is made, since we are all adapting to the European Union and in this, it is therefore time-consuming. If implemented in the right way and in the right segments of the market, this will certainly increase the competitiveness of Croatian fisheries and allow fish from the Croatian sea, Croatian rivers, lakes and growing sites to be found equally on the European Union market, as well as that Croatian fishermen can live on the job they are dealing with. Croatian fishing, and especially Croatian fishermen, burdens a whole series of problems in which it should be borne in mind that when talking about these problems they are not identical in the area of marine fisheries and in freshwater fisheries. Although the fishing activity itself, depending on the area in which it takes place, is regulated by specific laws, and by the Law on Marine Fisheries and the Law on freshwater fisheries, a large part of the existing problems can be solved through this law and, above all, by giving an emphasis on the most important factors affecting the market and are part of the activities of marine fisheries and fisheries in freshwater. Speaking of marine fisheries, it has already been mentioned here that the burning problem of Adriatic fishermen is fishing ports and landing places for fishing vessels. Although the decision on the list of landing places for fishing vessels came into effect in mid-year, it should be said that it did not solve the problem in principle but, I would say, even further complicated it. Namely, the landing place defined by such a decision, namely that decision, is formally existing but is very often present in reality, but as if it is not there. How is that possible? So here's a few examples. For example, in certain landing sites, landing capacity is insufficient, so fishermen often have to wait very long to land, which is very often reflected in the quality of the catch, and in such situations fish can be broken very often. Or, for example, a landing site as such exists, but it cannot be agreed by fishing vessels of some more serious gauges, or size. And we're talking about modernizing, modernising the fishing fleet, and in any case, it's going to be bigger both by the boat's gauges and by the number of vessels. Or, for example, it happens that the landing place exists, it can be agreed on by different, and by the largest fishing vessels, but the access of cargo vehicles that need to cover goods from these, or fish, from those vessels is disabled. Well, then again, we have a problem with the landing being impossible. There is also an example that in some cases there are all the conditions, and the capacity for landing and possible access and everything else, but unfortunately fishing boats cannot agree because there are a large number of tourist ships, and for this reason fishing vessels remain on hold again, which is reflected in catch. In such cases, the fisherman always loses, and I would say he also loses Croatian fishing. It is clear and this is pointed out by the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, that in such situations the role of local self-government is decisive. However, I believe that the government, or the competent ministry, also has the opportunity through some of its actions, so to speak, to influence the resolution of these problems. The least he can do is initiate agreements that will gather both local self-government and all those factors that have their own interest, who have a desire to solve this problem, to sit at the table. Because I find it hard to believe that local self-government leaders would refuse to call whether or not the secretary of state, whether at a meeting where all these factors would come together to discuss ways to address this problem that are primarily important for the settlements of these same places, cities and municipalities, which are engaged in fishing, because we are talking about coastal places. A particular problem arises when the fish is landed, when the fish is overloaded, but there is nowhere to store under the appropriate conditions. These conditions should allow the appropriate quality to be maintained until the time of sale, i.e. until further application. The problem is therefore the already highlighted lack of facilities for cooling and freezing so-called "freezing". the cold chain, resulting in problems resulting in the loss of thousands of tons, as we heard on the board, rejected fish, which is ultimately millions of kunas. The importance of solving these problems has a very big impact on the development of Croatian fisheries, and above all on the development of the Croatian fish market, and I therefore think that it should have been in the bill and highlighted as such because it also gives meaning to its resolution. It is, of course, necessary to say that the proposed law and we have also heard it already on boards does not limit support for development in the infrastructure segment. This is shown in Article 12. But in the form where it is so to say insufficiently indicated. It is also because of the importance of this problem, as pointed out by the opinion of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which is responsible for this area, that I consider it to be a matter of priority for the development of the so-called ". The cold chain should be particularly highlighted in this law and thus put into importance those development strategies leading to better development of Croatian fisheries. Since I come from Slavonia, that is, from the continental part I saw here from my colleagues from the SDP that most continentals also participated in the debate. I'm going to join the debate on those problems that are related to freshwater fishing in so-called. thermal growing sites where there are also certain problems. Most of these farms, or as we say more often, are located in Slavonia and mainly in rural areas. These rural parts are of course, all known to be less developed, and therefore the use of these ponds has an additional development dimension. First of all, for people living in the area who are engaged in fishing, but even those who are not fishing, as fishermen employ a particular section of the population in the area in which they are located. The sector has been significantly reduced in relation to the situation before the Homeland War. This has already been pointed out many times today both in terms of farmed areas and in terms of the amount of farmed fish. Of the prewar some 12 and a half thousand acres of ponds now only about 6000 are used. So we're somewhere on half the total breeding area. It should also be said that these 12 and a half thousand acres of ponds still exist. They potentially exist as economic operators, but unfortunately they are either unsettled or they are not properly reconstructed and modernised, which would allow the use of the entire area in one real way that would result in results in the production of fish. Fish production in ponds has also been halved by more than 800 kg per hectare, which was in advance at about 400 kg per hectare, although in some rare examples today we can find that this quantity is about 600 kg per hectare of fish ponds. So if the reduction in the surface, the reduction in the amount of fish we add together, then we see, so in fish production we fell to a quarter with a trend of growth. There is one more thing to say here, and this is also highlighted in our opening presentation, which is that one of the biggest problems, if not the biggest problem of freshwater ponds, is the issue of paying water compensation for the use of ponds. Her height that's a fact is significantly reduced back a few years. However, if we want to develop freshwater fisheries that I repeat in areas that are rural, which I would also say the weaker financial potential in the Republic of Croatia really encourage the need for water compensation to be completely abolished. What is most important is the fact that there are more frequent export potentials and also on the European Union market, so let me conclude. I support, above all, the amendments of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, which are here and accompanied, which highlight the priority of the development of certain fisheries segments, stress the quality of cooperation between economic and social partners in the area of fisheries, and I believe that it will significantly improve this proposal for a law that I will support and vote for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44630	Thank you very much. We have two reported replicas. A fellow Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44631	You've noticed your colleague well, noting the importance of landing places. Ten months ago, I was talking about exactly what's going on, of course from the ministry and the other institutions in charge, I was told I had no right, and now I'm repeating this just for the future, so for this year, the 12th and the 1st months and the periods to come. What's going on? With tuna growing sites, foreign ships agree, I won't say which but we all know which without the supervision of the visible, no customs, no sanitary inspection, no captain's permission because it's just along the waterway. Get the tuna on board. And of course if it happens without all of what I've said, without supervision, of course there is doubt about those stories about the black fish market on the Croatian side of the Adriatic. And that's why you should do everything that doesn't happen, because places for such works exist are strictly listed and what's only to be followed is to stick to existing laws and regulations. Because it will happen again I say come the 12th, 1st month time of the tuna and we will have a ship again that will come and do the fish on board without any supervision. And then we'll be surprised that our data doesn't match the statements and some of the owners of the company, or it'll turn out that we've exported far more fish than our data from the department in charge shows. So somewhere the fish has ended up, so let's clear our suspicions, strictly apply the law that must apply to everything equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44632	Thank you, fellow Pancic. I thought Slavons understood the pig's bones, but I can see they're also in the tuna. Replication response, colleague Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44633	Thank you very much, dear fellow Pancic. Of course, in the first part about access to fishing boats. I mentioned, therefore, that there are a large number of tourist ships that do not allow access to certain fishing boats. The fact is that the Republic of Croatia has been designated as a tourist country, but the same fact is that Croatia is traditionally a fishing country. And in some segments, it's clear where one stops, starts another or how the other works. As for the questions as the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament said tuna and tuna landings and landings, I will repeat here in the opening statement on behalf of our club, the esteemed colleague Bodakoš mentioned the issue of institutional support. The issue of inspections, veterinary sanitarys, etc., but there is, of course, a question of port captains that regulate everything that happens in their area. Therefore, institutions that are in charge of monitoring and organising operations in the port should do their job, and then all that is done illegally will be seen and sanctioned in due time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44634	Thank you very much. And the next replica, colleague Bodakosh. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44635	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleague Heffer, you just mentioned the development of freshwater ponds in rural areas and their significance, as well as the question of competitiveness and our production. Well, it's because of the things that happen and the decline in production, and the decline in production is evident, especially in the trout, these carpal ponds, where it used to be in the '90s. The year was over 9,000 tons, and today we have a thousand and a half tons of carp pond, carp. All this suggests that the competitiveness and reason for these freshwater ponds to get their support is evident and necessary. Because just as for water economics, these water fees, they're, say, 13 to 15% in cost. Therefore, if we do not exclude ponds from paying these contributions in a law that is going, which is now front of us, we will find ourselves in a very difficult situation. And exactly what we expect, and that's what we expect these ponds, these freshwater ponds, to be one of the places where these rural development develops, I think we're going to get even worse and the people who live there, and who work alongside these ponds, that if that production goes out, it's also going to be out of work and out of these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44636	Thank you, fellow Bodakosh. Replication response, colleague Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44637	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues Bodakoš, well behind the carp, shrub, catfish and similar fish, there is very much demand, not only in Croatia, but also in the most demanding markets, above all on the European Union market. When you mentioned the question of water charges, I said in my debate that they had been significantly reduced back a few years. For ponds, however, the average size is hundreds of thousands of kuna. But we should often be guided by good examples from above all the European Union, if we are talking about it, which show us how such a profitable branch is developed, such as fisheries, or freshwater fisheries. Here I will say, for example, the Czech Republic, as Europe's largest freshwater fish producer, has completely freed the ponds from paying the water fee. This particular fact is probably what brought the Czech Republic to the top of the production of freshwater fish, so that it would be the largest producer of such fish. Not to say that fishermen who deal with freshwater fishing claim that ponds do not pollute water, but rather that the water they use to grow they return to water streams cleaner than they take it. So that's one detail, that's one element through which you might be thinking about having those water fees completely abolished. Finally, if something with such potential is economic, it should be done to make full use of that potential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44638	Thank you very much. The next debate, a distinguished colleague, Gordan Maras, signed up. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44639	Thank you very much. Fellow Members and colleagues, when we talk about such an important topic, it is normal to devote a little more time and study the subject, or situation in which fishing is today. What I'd say is primarily that this power towards fishing is being treated one step further. What do I come to the conclusion? First of all, from the data available to us. Here's the first perhaps and symbolic gesture is today there is no Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries. I'm not saying that there is no man of other obligations, but when we talk about such an important subject normally that it would be necessary for the Minister of Agriculture here to be present and defend this law. For this law, we will probably all raise our hands because it defines some things and defines the ways in which certain support will be used, including those we will get when Croatia enters the European Union. What I must especially point out as another message that fishing in this country is in the motherland I said the relationship of power to it, is that from the budget for this year, I am now talking about 2009, within the Ministry of Agriculture, has been allocated to support agriculture and fisheries 3, almost 3 billion kuna. Now you have agriculture and fishing. Within that fishing figure, only 22 million kunas were allocated. So one total disproportionate, which isn't confirmed in the results either. We have to say that fishing, in fact, is about 200 million dollars a year, or billions of kunas in GDP, while that's a tenth of what's being achieved in agriculture. So if this were adequately reflected in the budget support, fishing would be worth 290 million kuna. Not 22 million kuna, but 290 million kuna. So definitely fishing doesn't even have its own hold in the budget. It's another thing. Unfortunately, fishermen are witnesses and state relations through, we discussed ZERP here. Italian fishermen in Croatia fish more fish in Croatian waters than Croatia, Croatian fishing and Croatian fishermen fish during the year. So Italian fishermen benefit more from our fish than Croatian and Croatian fishermen do. This is what I draw from the fact that every year Croatia and in this area produce 48 thousand tonnes of fish and other products while Italy multiples, i.e. since the vast majority of fish are fished in the Adriatic Sea, this amount is certainly greater than Croatian fishermen manage to catch. When I said this 200 million dollars and something more Croatian fishing brings to GDP, looking at it even 120 million of it amounts and exports, it is an extremely healthy economic branch and we need to support it more. In Croatia there are 4,000 registered fishermen, and even when we add up the number of employees within that industry that is about 10,000 people working in the industry, they produce 200 million, they get 22 million 775 thousand support, while on the other hand everything else means within the ministry, around 2 billion and 900 million go to agriculture, that would equivalently mean that a million and a half people should work in agriculture. We are aware, unfortunately, that there are no million and a half employees in Croatia today, so it is not possible that this is happening in agriculture. So, one big misunderstanding and I would like to tell the fishermen, here is former CH Fisher president, to start a party, the Croatian Fishing Party, try to get 6 seats in the Parliament, and you will provide much more money to support fishermen than you have now, so it is possible even to get up to 3 billion kuna. Croatian fishing party. The second thing, no one would mind that money going and justifiably raising Croatia's GDP, but unfortunately we witness every day that the many supports that are much larger than these 22 million for fishing, go to the unprocessed country, that people get support for years, and even when they sell support, they get support from those who received before. So one completely unsettled system within the Ministry of Agriculture, which unfortunately goes to the detriment of Croatian fishing because then there is no money, only 22 million kunas manage to separate from 3 billion for fishing. And that it is not good again, and it is not rightly showing us Europe as well. Because when Croatia enters the European Union, it will be able to raise funds from the European Union around 373m euros for incentives for agriculture and fisheries, which means, of course, it won't be able to do everything right now, but over the years, that amount can reach 373m euros, of which 37m for fishing. So Europe recognized that this relationship cannot be 1:100 but 1:10. It means that the Croatian government, the ministry, coalition parties within the Croatian government, would be favored by Croatian fishing, fishermen, and those living alongside the sea, would not be less than 1% in the budget but 10% in the support provided. So in this case Croatian fishing should receive up to 300 million kuna support in order to cope with the competition as best as possible, so that our fleet would not be such that 82% of boats are less than 12 metres away, so that Croatian fishermen do not have to deal with the administration, fill out the papers rather than just concentrate on fishing and do more commercially to enable Croatian fishermen and help to create supplies in order to be as efficient as possible, etc. Of course, there is no such thing, because there is no hearing for Croatian fishermen, and of course the only thing that they can expect from this government is if they could protect them through the question of ZERP and then not protect them but leave them at the mercy and mercy of Italian fishermen who have a much stronger fleet and who can do whatever they want, who do not follow the rules even within their sea and who, at that time within the sea, leave them at the sea of that country that is not yet a member of the European Union. And normally with the support of this Law, because of everything I've said, we must, of course, create conditions for these things to be fixed, I must say, and I must be loud in the criticism of the Croatian government that a large part of the people who live in this business are 10 thousand people who have no support because they are always somehow pushed aside and because they have no political support in the ruling coalition. That is why fishermen, no vessels but a very clear message from the Croatian fishing party 6 MPs and you will be much better at the situation, it is a message from this coalition government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44640	Okay. Here's how the catch fish got the recipe to catch the votes. That's good. But we also have six applications for replication. First of all, dear colleague Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44641	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Maras in the introduction you expressed regret that he is not with us Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, as he comes from my county, from Vukovar-Srijemsko where freshwater fishing is an important factor in development, I would also say that I would like to see him. But I don't think Mr. Bozanic is a state secretary, as you said former CH Fisherman person who can't present this law properly. As for fishing, and fishing sites in the Republic of Croatia's budget, I truly believe that this law will enable fishing to be properly valued both in the economy of the Republic of Croatia and in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, in terms of the distribution of structural support, as well as in other parts of agriculture. However, as you said, the European Union has recognised the importance of fishing, so with regard to the funds that the Republic of Croatia will withdraw when it enters the European Union, fisheries participates with 1/10 and not as a much smaller share. I believe that, and now I will return to that part of my debate, and in this respect we will share good things from the EU, and perhaps if not earlier, and then this water compensation will be abolished, which will certainly make it important for our colleagues in freshwater fisheries to provide or improve the situation in the further development of freshwater fisheries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44642	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44643	Thank you very much. Mr. Heffer, the question of the minister's presence is just one gesture, and I'd like to see the minister at some point at a fishing protest talking to that microphone on the carriage not only on the tractor, but what I said in 2009, and now I'm going to give you the information for 2010. It's $2.3 billion in support and zero in fishing. No, fishing zero, empty column. So that's the gesture this government sends to the fishermen. Budget fishing zero. So, with the minister's presence, maybe that's why we can't ask him this kind of thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44644	Next, application for the replica of counterpart Arsen Bauk. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44645	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague Maras may also be a problem because there are no ministers and there are little money in the budget and how many Croats eat fish a year. Namely, the Spanish eat 44kg of fish annually on average, French 33, Italians 24, and Croats below 8 kg of fish a year, and less than we eat only Irish, German and Hungarian. This debate has been going on for 3 hours now, so according to the amount that awaits us, maybe something changes and Croats start eating more fish, and in fact the only question is whether, after this law, the price of fish in the markets, on towels, will be smaller or higher in restaurants. Because I'm afraid that after a law like this, the price will be even higher. Today in "Free Dalmatia" on her portal, I saw the title to close the fish market in Makarska. So, all of us who are coming out of this, as Mr. Picula said, of the Mediterranean circle actually know what's going on. The fish is expensive, which is why Croatian citizens eat much less fish. It's a small demand, so then our fishermen sell their fish to the Italians because of that, of course, they could even survive. However, fish wholesalers operate in Italy. They serve to regulate the market for seafood, and they are also open with us, but there is no traffic. And that's why it's normal for anchovies to be found in Italy from half euro to 5 euros per kg, in Great Britain there are about 3 and the price is always the same for us regardless of demand, regardless of any other circumstances of the euro and a half. In the hope of course that better days for Croatian fisheries are coming, we will support this law, but much more needs to be done in order therefore to achieve these standards which Europe has imposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44646	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44647	Thank you very much. My colleague Bauk is absolutely the reason for the poor consumption of fish in Croatia, i.e. the situation is caused by the fact that this segment and this industry are being pushed systematically into the side. There is no more support to provide more logistics support to fishermen, to establish a better infrastructure, something my colleague Heffer was talking about, since the landing of fish through freezing. Well, you don't have a single company in Croatia that deals with cold distribution, which means frozen goods. It's not just about the fish. So there's no special company for that. Normally, when there is no market, when people do not organise that there are weaker market situations, or that less goods are consumed. We will certainly not do anything good for Croatian fishing like this. On the other hand, the point of our tourism where fish and consumption may be most likely is that unfortunately, more and more food is being imported in Croatian tourism, namely we import more and more food than we produce ourselves, and no one would ever mind the great incentives that we give out of the state budget, but only in the event that these goods are spent more in Croatia, i.e. the less food we import from outside, and so, unfortunately, fish.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44648	Thank you. It means stimulating fish consumption. Shime Lucin's giving up. Davor Bernardic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44649	I wanted to replicate to you in this section where you mentioned the state budget, namely, you were data, probably in good faith, for 2009, believing that this support would be 22 billion, i.e. The modest 22 million kunas stay. What can be seen from 2008 is less than 35%. So in 2009, it's 35% smaller, but now the problem in this budget is what we only objected to Minister Shuker when he was there, which is absolutely nothing can read, or see where an item went missing. So you've well established according to the current draft budget is really a zero item or if it isn't moved somewhere where it's absolutely impossible to see, and apparently the intention of moving was precisely that in some ways you wouldn't have to count the columns that will ultimately bear the cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44650	Replication response, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44651	Thank you very much. A colleague of Bernardić's column can hardly be moved, or items may be in some other ministries, but it is very visible that some columns have not been moved, i.e. to continue to be supported. Which makes fishing zero very difficult to answer, and I'd like the secretary of state to tell us. He's probably not comfortable sitting here and listening to what we're saying, and on the other hand participating within a ministry that's not able to fight for fishermen. And that's why, of course, it's not good, and that's why we have to be very loud against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44652	Thank you very much. We have a report for the replica, colleague Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44653	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mr. Maras, exactly what you were saying about fishing aids and according to the results of the fishing industry, you've determined that you should get 10% of the support, not what you get, or now you won't get anything. However, this is not an accident because today, MP Kresho said it was under 2002 law. So nothing has changed but is given by weight as it used to be, but the other thing is what we need to have on these support is one policy that should just respect what you said, quality, competitive, and support such production and that it is competitive not only on our market, but also on the European market. That is why fishing when we look at it, in the first 10 months it exported from a billion dollars and some dollars of exported Croatian agriculture 113 million have exported fishing in the first 10 months. However, it is mostly and mostly marine fisheries. But at the same time, river fishing, freshwater fishing has had a negative balance since 2008. All these previous years had a positive balance of export and import relations. It means that exports were higher than imports and in freshwater fisheries by 2008. For all of this, I think that the law and the legal provisions that all the rules that must come from this law should go to one stimulation of such a type of work, both in this way and in better production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44654	Thank you, fellow Bodakosh. The answer to the replica of my colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44655	Thank you very much. My friend Bodakosh, my message is very simple. Instead of supporting a non-processed country, many farmers look at us and know what I'm talking about, many take support for a country they don't process, many take support for a country that isn't theirs, because unfortunately our administration isn't up-to-date enough to access that data, and they're still looking for it. So it's a scam. Instead of support for olives growing in Virovitica. Have you ever seen any olives in Slavonia? You're not. Well, there aren't any, but the support is paid. Instead of such support, support should be given to an industry that out of its billion kunas, 600 million kuna exports and which creates a new created value. So, fishing for absolute support, instead of zero, should give them what they deserve adequately.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44656	And the last application for replica, counterpart Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44657	A colleague of Maras has shown that he is a great, great expert in the fishing of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, here's what it is. First, you can't compare pears and apples and you can't make a ratio of the support that goes to agriculture and support that goes to fishing and improvise. Give a ratio from other countries, so agriculture and fisheries, and then say that our fisheries are cut off from agriculture. You don't have that information on your mind. Another thing about fisheries care. Well, it is best shown that we are the secretary of state that we have according to the latest dislocated so it has its headquarters in Split, is in contact with fishermen every day and is working on the problem. Therefore, in this respect, the exemption is manifested in relation to other activities and there is a great concern for fishing. Next thing. Since 2003, we have increased fish catches by 70%. It wasn't going to work itself out. So the government has also invested huge money in modernising the fishing fleet, etc. That's what you're really worried about. Expendable fish per capita. So don't just tell me it's because of the law. Well, I'll tell you as a food tech, as a nutritionist, etc. Tell me. So these things depend on tradition and on the culture of nutrition and consumer awareness of the nutritional, protective values of food, not the legal regulation. Then how do Hungarians and Austrians consume more fish per capita than Croats? What are you going to explain? Well, they don't have seas either. So these things have nothing to do with it. I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44658	Thank you. My colleague Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44659	Thank you very much. As far as expertise is concerned, unfortunately it doesn't have to be too professional to see that this government doesn't take care of fisheries at all. That's what this is about. It is even to a man who is not in the profession and is not a fisherman, it is clear that this government does not have any concern for fishing. And I didn't put that in the budget item myself. Item 1185 of support in agriculture and fisheries 2 billion, 200 kuna, for zero fisheries. Well, that's what Mr. Kovacevic and your coalition put on, and that's how you classified them. And in the ratios that are worth out there, I speak the same from the data that we understand from the European Union. So they predicted that we would receive annual support of around 373m euros, of which 37m euros for fishing. As far as I know, and there shouldn't be a great expert in math, to divide 370 by 37, that's a tenth. It means 10%. Here are the simple conclusions that anyone can draw who reads this draft budget, who reads little matter related to European funds, etc. What's the conclusion, this government doesn't care about fishing, and there's nothing you can deny.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44660	We're done with replicas and answers. We're continuing the debate. Dear colleague Petar Mlinaric. Here's your colleague, Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44661	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I see that it was said just before that there was a secretary of state in Split for saltwater, and my proposal will be now to be a representative or secretary of state in Vukovar for freshwater. That's what this is all about, I hope you won't turn us down, and then a lot of problems would be solved. It wouldn't be like it's been months now. Seven fishermen have been harassing other fishermen and seniors who are looking after the fish fund. Well, I hope we get a chance to wait and work on it. This law prescribes market standards for certain fisheries and aqua-culture products for which an intervention mechanism can be activated within the Single Market of the European Union, enables the establishment and recognition of producer organisations and defines their role in the implementation and provision of laws. Due to the specificity of the fishing sector in the Republic of Croatia, fishing cooperatives are recognised in a special way as stakeholders in the implementation of fisheries policy and in the organisation of the market, a framework for pricing policy which can only be applied and managed through producer organisations, where it applies only to certain production fisheries. An obligation shall be introduced to obtain appropriate certificates of conformity in the import of fishery products from other countries which confirm that catches come from legal, regulated and notified fishing activities. The law also regulates support issues in a specific status which do not have the character of structural support, and are allowed in accordance with the general rules on the European Union State Support, the European Union Commission's guidelines on State aid for restructuring firms in difficulty, the European Commission's guidelines for State aid in fisheries and aquaculture. The main objective of the adoption of the Structural Support Act and the regulation of the fisheries market is to adapt the support system to the common fisheries policy of the European Union in order to strengthen the competitiveness of the sector, improve physical and social infrastructure, the fisheries sector, improve production capacities in growing and fishing industries, preserve fishing communities and protect the environment. Subjects in the fishing sector expect major changes by entering the European Union's single market. The proposed provisions will align the measures of the fisheries policy of the Republic of Croatia with the measures of the European Union ZERP in the segment of market and structural policy and will create conditions for the adoption of implementing rules to facilitate the further accession process of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The implementation of this law does not require any additional funding, but its implementation will need to properly structure the allocation of funds under the State budget for 2010 within the division of the competent ministry. Then, by providing room for the sale of fish in local markets as arranged at sea for the possibility of selling fresh fish, freshwater fish from the bench. Here we have on freshwater waters another problem, determining landing sites and catching freshwater fish on land in areas in which economic fishing may be carried out. The ministry has made a commitment to the number, landing places to prepare, but until today, no landing sites have been made, but I hope the ministry is working on it. Why? Because some fishermen avoid coming to landing places to show the catch, and that is where the normal Republic of Croatia loses, the budget of the Republic of Croatia is damaged and I hope the ministry will take care of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44662	Thank you very much. We have one replication report. Dear fellow Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44663	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Mlinaric, I absolutely support your proposal that the Secretary of State for freshwater fishing be dislocated with the headquarters of Vukovar, but I am afraid he will not solve this problem of fishermen in Vukovar, so you said, where a group or a few fishermen harass those who guard the fish fund. In fact, the problem is obviously in the indeterminateness of the law and the question is whether they are in the blue areas, whether they are allowed to fish or not. It is simply necessary to bring in one joint function, all of which is therefore the fishing network and inspection and fishermen and all those dealing with the area in Vukovar in order to achieve a common solution. There will always be and there have always been certain individual interests, however interpreted and on which side. The secretary of state, unfortunately, won't be able to handle these things on his own. There are other institutions, there is another way to address this, and first of all it is necessary to address the question of poachers, not only in the Danube area and the rest of Slavonia, but generally in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44664	Answer, Mr. Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44665	My colleague, I would answer, it's these problems that have been in the Danube, the fishing services are doing their job well, the authorities are doing their job well, and some fishermen are connected, now I have to say, now you've challenged me, connected to a gentleman from the ministry who calls the police the night they hunt fish, normally, with illegal means and says listen, let them go, it's okay and stuff like that. I think that's why it's still going to be, they're making you the same seven fishermen, they're all on the other side, they want to pay VAT and show the fish caught. But part of it, the ministry will have to resolve it very quickly, if it doesn't solve it very quickly, those same seven fishermen are getting ready with boats to come before the ministry these days, and exactly on the direction of a gentleman from the ministry I'm not going to name. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44666	And Mr. Davor Bernardich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44667	President of the Parliament. Well, when it comes to Croatian agriculture or Croatian fishing, then there is a need to say a few things that are crucial, which is that fishing and the accompanying industry, in Croatia, agriculture, fisheries and the accompanying industry employ 6.3% of the total number of legal employees. They also directly participate in the gross social product with over 10%. I think that speaks enough about the importance of Croatian agriculture and fisheries for employment in Croatia. The production and processing of food in Croatia deals with about 2800 companies, but it is far too small for the goal and place where it could be given our potential. There are some things that have been seen through this debate, but I'll just mention a few things. In fact, we often pass and here we read laws that intend to bring our legislation into line with European laws, with the fact that we do not, in practice, work. The government is not doing what needs to be done in the sector. And it wasn't a waste of my colleagues mentioning exactly those figures when it came to fishing support within the state budget. Here I will read the data, in relation to the execution of 2008, as far as fishing itself is concerned, as an item of the state budget, in 2009, the funds were reduced by 35% and by which items. For example, the project to build fishing wholesalers has even failed by 83%. So, 83% less resources. The incentives have been financed, and the modernisation of the fishing fleet and the ZERP has failed by as much as 90%, i.e. only 10% of the total funding for 2008 was planned in 2009. And what's unfortunately true is that in 2010, we can't even see what these funds are and they're probably zero. On the trail of what my colleague Maras was saying to other colleagues, because it doesn't say, and an empty line might mean zero. So that's one piece of information. How the European Union handles matters when it comes to fishing support is then a very long tradition issue. In the 1970s, the European Union began to build a fishing aid system and it continued through a document called similar to agriculture. It's called the CFP or the Common Agricultural Policy CAP, meaning Common Agricultural Policy. What is important is to stress that the fishing subsidy plan is a seven-year plan as a subsidy plan for agriculture. It does not change from year to year depending on individual cash opportunities, it is a seven-year plan where each item is specifically planned for the seven years, and this is related to the period from 2007 to 2013. And when we talk about how much the European Union will invest in fisheries through the fund, which is the Euro-Issuance Fund for Structural Support for Fisheries, that is almost four billion euros. If this is compared to Common agricultural policy, it means somewhere around 78% of the funds go for direct aid in agriculture, and 55 billion euros is known to be direct support in agriculture based on CAP, i.e. Common agricultural policy comes up with data, that the European Union directly subsidises agriculture with over 40 billion direct payments, and in fisheries subsidized by 4 billion. And then it is justified that this information was presented by a colleague, Maras, that it was at European Union level on the fishing subsidy compared to a farm of 10% with a very simple calculation. So we were right. What should also be highlighted and what is missing, and here is missing in the state budget of this zero item, which is the projects of the construction of fishing wholesalers and landing sites and the promotion of co-financing of the modernisation of the fishing fleet. Our fishermen have been warning for years, meaning the problems in fishing, the ones they have been tormented and say that the number one is already a few years in a row, and I've been reading reports and I've been looking for reports since 2005, 2006, 2007 and the year after that is the infrastructure on land, fishing ports, berths for fishing vessels, landing sites, fish markets, shell drop-off centres, collection and distribution centres for fish and shellfish and a whole series of other objects on land without which it can't even imagine the activity of catching or farming at sea. And that's what wasn't done and that's what we're talking about as if the law was going to change. Well, it won't change the law, especially now that there's no money. So who's gonna build this? That's what this is about. These are structural problems for which the items in this budget are zero and which will not be solved. In addition, Croatian fishermen pay even more expensive fuel than Italian fishermen, but not only that, but also Italian fishermen made a concession, allowing ZERP to remember this well, not all of you are referring to Italian and Slovenian fishermen as if we are afraid that the Montenegrins will catch our fish, and the Slovenians have blocked our chapter 13 on fishing for the prize. On the one hand, we turn them around, meet them by delaying the application of ZERP to Slovenia, on the other hand they block Chapter 13. And that's proof and visible proof that in some way the government is referring to this issue. What should also be said is that Croatia's entry into the European Union will make some fishery resources available, but these are too little. It is the funds of some 40m euros given the strength of our fishing industry to make any more serious changes in the sector. Because unfortunately this is what happens, and this is what Bodakoš mentioned that we, in order to feed tuna in our tuna dumps, are importing 25% of the blue fish from Italy, from the European Union, which is funny just because it has no capacity to store that fish and then feed that tuna with that fish. So we simply in that part cannot help ourselves and then it is no wonder that the headlines of Europe feed us fish from our sea. Such titles will remain as long as Italian products are packed and frozen, not Croatian manufacturers on Croatian shelves in supermarkets, as long as the problems with the construction of offshore infrastructures are not solved, and these problems, and now that the money is gone, will not be solved because they were not solved when the money was made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44668	Thank you. And five minutes on behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44669	Mr. President, state secretary with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. I will repeat a sentence written to me by one of the fish producers from Slavonia and which I first cited in my discussion for the HDSSB club, which is that the manufacturer thinks that this bill is only a satisfying form of such a law for the purpose of adapting and continuing negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia and joining the European Union, and that in itself it will not do much in the area of fisheries and fisheries, and that it will benefit the most from various intermediaries and will help producers and end consumers. Here's a little man to say he wrote in a memo to me as an agent to present it. From these discussions that are being held today, it actually kind of turns out that way. It is, therefore, structural problems in fisheries, the definition of both fishing ports and fishing vessels and landing sites and wholesalers and the cold chain and structural support defined here. But we know well, and we see from the budget that the money is actually gone and that then this sentence that I said at the beginning is very, very realistic, unfortunately. Although the club, here I must not be angry with to comment, the SDP club on this side is talking about fishing that is zero-zero with incentive support for next year, and yet on the other hand I think there were members who, the SDP who spoke about the need for inspection, about freezing tuna on the open sea and using it to say, I'm not going to say repressive, but the apparatus that would control it. So let's go a little bit in the defense of fishing, a little incentivising fishing, and then we'd push even harder, which I'm not saying is that it doesn't need the state to have its own apparatus and inspections that exist in fisheries and fisheries, and I'm also saying stronger measures and sanctions to actually prevent the black market of fish that is quite visible in Croatia, because our major markets and these landing places, and they don't actually have any traffic today. And we know how the Rijeka wholesaler stares. We were looking at, I wasn't there, but I saw on TV ours, totally staring blank. So then, there are suggestions in that sense, and I'd say inspection, if there's already a blue diesel co-financed, then I guess something, so sometimes at least something should be caught and shown and handed over at the landing place or the wholesalers. Interestingly, we are going to encourage even though it is said to be expensive compared to an Italian rally of blue diesel, but just to never surrender anything in a landing place and a wholesaler, it is a bit of a strange thing. I have invested, as I have said in the amendments, on this bill with the final draft of the law and I expect the Secretary of State to, in particular, the amendment in relation to measures aimed at rearing fish younger indigenous species, our Croatian, Slavonic, whatever you want, face-to-face, freshwater fish, obtained by a natural network to support and bring into this bill before the vote itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44670	Thank you. And finally on behalf of the promoter, Secretary of State Tonči Bozanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44671	Thank you. Mr. President, distinguished parliamentary representatives. Here I am, first of all, going to say a few words about these amendments delivered by the Assembly Committee on Agriculture. The other day we were in a session, there was a wide debate. They were also representatives of the fishing sector. So from the Chamber of Commerce we have received certain suggestions that we have discussed on the board in such a wide way and I can say that we accept all these three amendments that came from the Assembly Committee on Agriculture. Although I must stress that they were already contained in the proposed text, therefore, but additionally requested, I would say an explanation in terms of the quote, as proposed in the amendments, I think it is acceptable. So these amendments are accepted by the Proposer. And as for the amendments we've received recently from the HDSSB's Representatives Club. We'll consider them. We'll see each other later. I would indeed, if you would allow me, President, just with a few words about these, some clarifications for the allegations we had heard in this debate. So, about the budget. I have to say that exactly what we had to hear, that the zero budget for 2010, for fishing, I certainly wouldn't be here today for this speaker. So, it's really about me saying uninformedness, because I have to say that if you carefully read the budget, then you'll see that there are still 110 million kunas left in agriculture, that through market interventions there remains the implementation of that Government's decision on market compensation, for catching white, blue fish, to continue 25 million. So he stays in the budget and helps the ponds in terms of the damage of... A bird, for about 10 million kunas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the fisheries budget, 70 million kuna is provided for structural and other support to the fisheries sector. So I personally like any commitment to the improvement of the fishing sector, and to get more funding, but I must be honest and say that I am satisfied with the resources available, I am satisfied with the means that this law that we are talking about today will be implemented, and also with this financial envelope after entering the European Union, I must also say that the funds are at an envious level, and it is up to us to make them real. Let me get this straight. Often in Croatia, 3,000 600 fishermen, 3,000 700 fishermen, were killed. So we're talking about holders of benefits, so the owners of craftsmen and owners of companies that have their employees on the brewery, so for catching small blue fish on a boat, there are people, on... It's going to be 4, 5, so the number of fishermen is far higher than what we had the chance to hear today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A few words about the majors. You know that Croatia's fish exporter and Croatia is a small market for caught fish. In particular, fresh fish are exported to the Member States of the European Union, primarily to Italy and Spain. So wholesalers should revive the moment when Schengen is no longer available, when there are no ramps at the border and when traders with their Udine trucks or from Ljubljana or Venice can come to Rijeka in two hours' time to buy that fish and drive it to their countries. So we are making assumptions that the moment we enter the European Union, we have these contents as provided by European fishermen. And in the end there would be just a few words about blue diesel, and a suggestion about restrictions as it is limited in agriculture. I was a fisherman, and I really might have to explain, it's really a specific activity. So with fishing boats in some parts of fishing, like... Fishing, you have a tremendous fuel consumption, so often it happens from the total income, for example 10 thousand kuna per day, gross revenues must be spent by 5 thousand kuna based on fuel fuel, meaning it is an enormously large item, and also an enormous sensitivity to the problem of blue diesel, so Croatia is one of the last countries in the world that has made it possible for its fishermen to use this well-fused fuel. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what I'm saying is it's not easy to measure the exact quantities that must be spent on a particular user. You can go fishing for days, little blue fish, one day you won't find it, one day there'll be dolphins and you'll be gone and you won't catch anything, the third time your sea current will be big, so you won't catch it, five times you'll catch everything you're not. So, it's hard to tie the number of exits to the amount of catch, you can talk about averages, we take these averages in historical quantities and we have confirmations of fuel books every year, so the quantity is compared to what's caught. The fishermen must lead the eyewitnesses and based on them, and the basis of what has been shown in the eyewitnesses is then controlled by the consumption of fuel. Everything that is suspicious through customs control is controlled in detail by certain quantities for a particular fisherman, but I think it often binds this blue fuel to fisheries, but it seems to me that the total amount of blue fuel consumed is all maybe 1/5 of the waste to the fishing sector. And now, indeed, at the end of the tuna protection conference, for the sale of tuna, we have had the opportunity to hear concerned about the survival of this species, I must say that the Croatian member and the Bluefin tuna Conference, so we are one of 40 and some of the Member States, we accept all the most restrictive measures that are being taken at this meeting, year by year the quotas are decreasing, the hunting season has increased to 11 months, so only a month is allowed to hunt, and I would say that these measures have yielded results, the fishermen have never been in the Adriatic Sea again, and they are surprised by restrictive measures, but we as a Member State must support and hope that the stock will recover, and as far as it is said that certain illegal actions occur that Japanese ships are undeclared, it definitely does not stand. I have to tell you that all the fishing, farming and tuna exports are treated as if it were enriched uranium, indeed the records that are being kept, which not only has Ikat imposed on us, forced the Japanese market, when all of this is being carried out really and in control now but also in international surveillance that we ourselves have to pay for, so we can't miss anything. So I'm not saying there's any concern in that part. Here I would like to thank you for a truly affirmative debate, and I would like to thank the representatives' clubs for their support, and even that conditioned one, and I hope that this law will make our fishing sector more competitive, European and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44672	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. We move on to the final proposal of the Structural Support Act and the regulation of the fisheries market, it was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 451. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments submitted by the Government become an integral part of the final draft law and on the basis of 169. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and by Representative Boro Grubišić. During the debate, the proposer's representative adopted amendments to the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. Mr. Secretary of State Tonci Bozanic, please, will be shown about the remaining amendments. First, the amendment of the HDSB Representatives Club to Article 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44674	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives. Here are three amendments from the HDSSB. This first one is referred to in Article 5, which is related to the initiative to describe in more detail areas or communities that depend on fishing so that areas that are suitable for the development of fisheries and are currently not developed are not accepted for reasons why detailed criteria for the identification of such areas or communities will be defined by a national fisheries strategy or operational programme. And according to the basic criteria set out in the EU acquis.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44675	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic on behalf of the club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44676	Mr. Secretary of State, in this amendment, you have well said that the possibility of fishing development is being opened and in those areas of the Republic of Croatia which have not so far developed this form of economy. However, this strategy that you spoke about and the action plan as you say, an operational pardon, this operation and action go well. So I personally don't know if they already exist, whether they've been brought, and if they're not, when they're going to be brought in, then that we can possibly be satisfied with this answer. If that doesn't exist, and in your opinion, I'd say it's not over yet, then I'm asking for a vote by the MPs on my amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44677	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the same club to Article 12, second amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44678	As regards the amendment to Article 12, where measures are proposed to measures directed by fishing vessels of indigenous species of freshwater fish obtained by natural soil, which would be used to fish open water streams in the conservation of fish stocks, no amendments shall be accepted for the reason that it is proposed in substance to the criteria covering production investments. So the law already contains that, which will also be detailed in the operational programme. I'd just like to point out that it's not a law that defines details. Underlaws are certain that we will process all of this and so what is in the proposed amendment. So we don't accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44679	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44680	This I could... as a partial acceptance or partial refusal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can take that from my side of partial rejection, and with your partial acceptance. However, I have made it clear here that this amendment is aimed at launching production in particular in the areas of continental Croatia. So, all parts of Slavonia and Baranja, so like and elsewhere, which have certain predispositions, so for survival, development and production of indigenous species, as you and I have discussed on the sidelines of this Parliament. So when I was talking, in the very presentation, I was talking about a flimsy carp, a potter, and some other species of liquefied trout, etc. But here you go, alive and seen! Promises are promises! I hold you to the word, Mr. Secretary of State. I'm asking the representatives for a plea.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44681	Who's for this amendment in this section? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Third amendment to Article 37 of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44682	Therefore, Article 37 proposes an amendment to the initiative to increase the exposure to freshwater fisheries to at least one facility in a single county where there is an economic activity of freshwater aqua culture. We cannot accept this amendment for purely technical reasons because it is not proposed in the jurisdiction of this law. But as a resolute ministry, we'll be taking care of employment. It is also in our interest to have equal representation of these officials. Here I hope I've explained enough through these three amendments, that the law contains these initiatives of yours, so that yours, as the previous debate was said, and conditional support, I hope that we will get all of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44683	Thank you. On behalf of the club Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44684	So fishing stations only exist in Zadar for marine fisheries and in Osijek for freshwater I would say fisheries. We are of the opinion that there is a need to increase the number of fishing facilities for freshwater in order to improve the coordination and introduction of fish and young fish producers with the annual needs, quantities and species needed to fish and grow. I am therefore staying with our HDSSB amendment and I would like to request a statement of my representative on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44685	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft law on structural support and regulation of the fisheries market. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The bill was adopted by the majority of votes, 111 votes for, 3 abstentions and nothing against, together with the amendments adopted. We move on to - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 477 The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You have received the proposal in boxes, the emergency procedure shall apply in accordance with Article 161(1). Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings of the law, amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Zdravko Maric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44687	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. Here is a short one to present the draft law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act. So, you know very well that we have recently closed the chapter of financial services and fulfilled a whole series of legislative harmonisations that needed to be made with the European Union, however, of course we are still facing further harmonisation of legislation as certain directives are being amended from that area at European Union level. That is exactly why we re-apply the bill on these amendments and additions and it is explained in the text itself. As far as the 2019 Directive is concerned, we can say that practically three essential areas are changing and that we are also harmonising with this proposal, so let me refer briefly to the text of the existing law and explain more closely what we are changing. According to the existing Act, therefore, the Croatian National Bank, the central bank of the Republic of Croatia, is obliged without delay and no later than 21 days from the date on which it was established that the credit institution has not paid off the deposits, to make a decision on the inaccessibility of the deposit. In accordance with this Bill proposal and also in accordance with, of course, with the 2009 Directive, the deadline for determining the inaccessibility of deposits has been five working days since the Croatian National Bank established that the credit institution has failed to pay the deposits. In addition, as regards payment deadlines, so when a secured case takes place, the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks takes measures to prepare compensation for creditors of a credit institution within three months after the insurance case took place, with the consent of the Croatian National Bank, that same agency may exceptionally extend that period twice each time for an additional three months. These deadlines are paid in accordance with this Bill proposal, I repeat, in accordance with the Directive, that these 3 months become 20 working days from the inaccessibility of deposits, with this extension being reduced from 2 times 3 months to 10 working days. Finally, it should also be said that this bill proposes a reduction in the deposit premium rate from 0.40% annually to 0.32 due to the increased coverage of deposits entering the insurance system as of January 1st 2010. It should also be said that, of course, it is parallel to these changes that I mentioned and that there has been some alignment with the text of the Credit Institutions Act, I think that this is the next item of the agenda that you will discuss. And finally to say that it is proposed that this law enter into force on 01 January 2010, while noting that the application of the provisions relating to the deadlines for the establishment of an inaccessible deposit and payment of compensation is delayed until the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44688	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club Mr. Representative Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44689	Thank you very much, Mr. President, sometimes the throat drys a little bit, so you'll have to have a glass of water to drink. As regards the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act with the final draft law, the Club of Representatives of the SDP will support the proposed amendments. As the Secretary of State has said, we believe that things are going in the right direction. Harmonisation with European rules of conduct and certainly that is one of the measures that has contributed to the stability of the banking sector, i.e. trust that the money that Croatian citizens, companies are taking, is being kept in Croatian banks. Four hundred thousand kuna, regardless of the number of accounts, gives one certainty that the state is behind these funds within the banking system. What we welcome, of course, is to raise to another higher level of security, which is that it means that instead of state guarantees instead of 3 months. that deposits will be paid if the bank is in a 20-day situation, i.e. that the CNB will no longer be as boredom in 21 days within 5 days after it has failed to pay the deposits will reach a solution on the inaccessibility of deposits. So that's all the SDP supports and why it thinks this law is quality, but what we have to say and it's not possible to pass when discussing this topic is next, banks, the financial system, citizens are safe, banks still have very good results, they make good money. The state has access to funds, sometimes owed on the foreign market, sometimes on the domestic market, but Croatian citizens definitely do not have that security, or their debt does not fall, or interest on their loans does not fall, and the opposite of the trends in the world in Croatia interest do not fall on Croatian citizens. We must note that the banking sector in Croatia still has very good results. In the first nine months. This year's profit before tax was 3.8 billion kuna. In fact, slightly less than it has been in recent years, but costs are the most caused by the increase in the total cost of booking for losses, meaning for potential problems in the absence of credit. The state is in charge of domestic banks in the domestic banking sector for an additional $11.8 billion, i.e. 22 billion in total, or even about 111% more than it was last year. The problem, which occurs today in Croatia, is that interest on citizens' loans, interest on entrepreneurship will not go down because of the situation in which Croatia is today. Banks will not risk reducing interest because there is a very high demand for domestic deposits and there are interest rates quite high, on the other hand those funds that banks supply outside unfortunately because of Croatia's large debt of around 42 billion euros, are burdened by high interest rates due to the high risk of investment in Croatia and normally that Croatian citizens in the overall economic situation cannot benefit from this. We send a very clear message that something needs to be changed, that in cooperation means the Croatian state, the economy, of course the Croatian state, starting from itself and the overall change of policy regarding both public consumption and the state apparatus and the budget must change the circumstances in Croatia today's economy. So we can no longer have such an expensive public administration, we can no longer have a public administration that year after year requires new debts on both domestic and foreign markets to cover the deficit that will be planned this year for nearly 9 billion kuna, i.e. in a situation where Croatia's foreign debt is 42 billion euros, i.e. next year it is likely to reach 45 billion euros, normally that Croatian citizens will have no lower interest. And we must make it very clear from this speaker that this is exactly the reason, this policy that we have at work for 6 years, that Croatian citizens pay high interest and that they will not, in accordance with the practice in Europe and the world, be reduced in the coming years. It is good, so on the one hand, to ensure the stability of the banking sector with such measures and citizens who will give their deposits, but we definitely need to do more to make sure that Croatian citizens benefit from this banking sector and in a way that they can borrow money cheaper, and not that the banking sector every year with this security that means the state guarantees by standing up with these measures behind the sector, they have billions of kuna profits every year and probably this year close to 5 billion kuna again. Which one do you get? Of course, those benefits received from Croatian citizens through interest payments, consumption, housing loans, etc. So we have to say that in some way we resent the government, which is absolutely nothing, especially since the SDP's Club of Representatives has referred to the parliamentary procedure a bill that will destimulate banks to give interest rates at high interest rates, means that interest rates will be taxed above 7%. We must not forget to think about those who need it most about Croatian citizens who may not even have, they certainly do not have deposits in banks because they are hard to deal with, and these measures will not help them. We need to think about how interest rates must be reduced, of course with the state's cooperation with the entire banking sector. It doesn't matter if the interest rate is 5, 6 or 7% because the vast majority of Croatian citizens are burdened with housing loans. For them 500, 600, 700 kuna a month means a lot. Here in the end, support once again for this law, but the injunction to the government, the ministry that absolutely does not think about Croatian citizens in a way that does. I know the truth sometimes bothers but it's a fact. I don't see a single measure of the Croatian government. The SDP representative club does not see a single measure of the Croatian government that would go towards the banking sector to interest on housing loans on consumption, to what life means to Croatian citizens who go in this direction to reduce those interest rates. To get Croatian banks are still astronomical, the state must not say anything, because it borrowed 11 billion kuna from the sector since last year. Probably next year, in the first month, the second month will have to borrow money again, and normally it is the hand of the hand menu policy, and only to the harm of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44690	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44691	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, the whole series of incorrect allegations was in Mr. Maras' exposure, and the last one is that the government is doing nothing for citizens in the banking sector. I will remind only of the increase in the security of the savings stakes guaranteed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that is the most important move that has happened and that has probably prevented the once unwanted developments in the withdrawal of deposits from banks and stabilised the entire banking sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44692	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44693	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Well, here we have heard just a minute ago that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is doing almost nothing in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to banking, so this proposal of the law is in that interest and not to say how much it has been done so far, so I will look back at these procedures. The opening statement shows what these amendments relate, mostly in relation to the period of payment which, according to the current law, was three months from the inaccessibility of the deposit, and now changes this proposal to 20 days, which is also in favour of the savings and citizens of the Republic of Croatia and changes the deadline for determining the inaccessibility of deposits from 21 days to 5 working days. It is no doubt that these amendments will contribute to an even higher level of the banking system, the entire Republic of Croatia and an even higher level of citizens' confidence in business banks and the banking system. With this bill, the additional state is reducing the cost of business banks once again, as the deposit guarantee rate that banks are obliged to pay to the State Deposit Insurance Agency and to resuscitate banks is down from the current 0.40% annually to 0.32% annually. It should be noted that the state has continued caring for this one of the most important elements of the overall economy of the Republic of Croatia. Even though many credit themselves and although many wish to credit these merits to individuals, even more professional and serious valorisation would undoubtedly come to the conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is the most responsible for the stability of the banking system in the Republic of Croatia. We'll only mention two stages of recovery of the banking system. The first stage when the total cost was $7.5 billion for the old foreign exchange savings of 3.7 billion, so-called. large bonds $990 million, interest-recognized negative exchange rates total $2.91 billion. So that first phase is 7.5 billion. The second phase of the resolution of the banking system in the Republic of Croatia is the result of the most inefficient and incomprehensible monetary policy of the Croatian National Bank in '98. and '99. the years when a $1.38 billion was spent through capital recovery, and another $560 million to be recovered through cash deposits. Also since '91. until '98. interest and payments to banks for liabilities INAs and shipyards were paid a billion dollars, payment of the secured savings of failed banks and savings banks 730 million dollars, commitments from Priška and London Club 847 million dollars, and interest on the Paris and London Club 420 million dollars. The total cost of the second phase of recovery is $5.53 billion. So, in all, the Republic of Croatia has been in the recovery of the banking system since '91. To date, spent $13.14 billion or $87.4 billion. In the face of this most devastating economic crisis, the Government of the Republic of Croatia reacted among the first in the world and increased the guaranteed amount of savings from 100,000 to 400 thousand kuna. At the same time, it reduced the annual premium rate from 0.50 per year to 0.40 per cent per year. What were the reactions to these measures? So for the sake of comparison, the total amount of deposits of citizens in 2005 was €62 billion, 2006. 66 billion kuna, 2007. 70 billion kuna. After increasing savings from 100 to 400 2008, we come to 106 billion kuna savings, and then in 2009 to 113 billion kuna savings. At the same time, the amount of insured citizens' deposits was 62 billion in 2005, 2006. 66, then 70, and last year from 106 to 113. The percentage of secured deposits rose from 57% to 73% in 2008 to even 75% in 2009. At the same time, the amount of the premium charged increased from 291 million kuna to 434 million kuna in 2009. Thus, the amount of secured deposits increased by 80% compared to 2005, and the amount of premium charged increased by 48% compared to 2005. And how did the banks react to all these measures? The least thankless, narrowly and selfishly. They were all taking interest rates, introducing different types of fees so that an effective interest rate reached an incredible and socially unacceptable level of 13%. It has joined a unilateral amendment of the contractual provisions. Even this unilateral change of contractual provisions has become an issue of debate at professional and scientific meetings of lawyers. Banks have exclusively turned to increasing profitability and have achieved 30 billion kuna profits directly or through their companies over the last ten years. Only in 2008 did one of the largest banks increase profits by 18.8% and the second largest bank by 25%. One came true in 2008. 1.1 billion kuna gains more than in 2007, and another 1.4 billion kuna gets more than in 2007. Only those two banks in ten years made 2 billion euros in profits, i.e. they increased 2.7 times as their assets grew 2.2 times. And only these two banks account for 42% of the total activity of the banking system of the Republic of Croatia. How else did the banks thank and react to the crisis against the population and the economy? In 2009, the share of loans to the population in total credit ratings was reduced. The share of loans to companies has been reduced, and nominally the placement of citizens in companies has dropped by 5 billion kuna, while the total credit placement has increased by 4.2 billion kuna. A particular problem in Croatian banking is the problem of passive interest on deposit paid by banks to those who harm banks. This level has reached an incredible even 7% and above 7%, and thus it cannot encourage the economy but it is sending a message that in these times it is worth nothing, not a risk, because it will be made more if it is held in the bank. And those who have, until those who don't have can't even get a loan. And how is it in other countries? Here's an example of Germany, because I came back from Germany last night, from a province that appreciates exceptional production from the Russian province and in their daily newspaper yesterday found official data that in the German economy, interest savings are at least 0.19% and maximum, regardless of the amount of deposits up to 2.5%. Germany probably knows what it's doing. The latest example is the case in the Croatian Post Bank. It also tries to politicise, even the supervisory board, as well as all other problems are called, the policy influence is called, and in fact it is very well known what is the obligation of the Supervisory Board. But the obligation of the Supervisory Board is not to assess the risk of credit ratings, it is a provision for the institutions of the Croatian National Bank. As a result, the HDZ Club supports this bill because it advocates that all measures are directed towards the economy, but it also advocates that credit-monetary policy comes out of a circle closed between the Central Bank and the business banks, that it be transferred to both the economy and citizens, both to companies and entrepreneurs. Because in these really difficult times, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the true entrepreneurs are going through the hardest times because they have difficulty dealing with banks because it is really hard to deal with those who have achieved what they wanted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44694	Thank you. Now we'll have a break by 3:00 when the first one speaks on behalf of the HNS Club Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh and then we move on to an individual debate. So, at 3:00, we'll get back to work. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44695	We're going on with the session and the club debate. First is the HNS club, the esteemed representative of Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44696	Dear Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the motionary. We have before us a proposal for a legal act which has the task of harmonising the solutions in the area of bank insurance, i.e. deposits in banks with practice, but also two very important directives of the European Union. The need to amend and supplement this Deposit Insurance Act is obviously not controversial. However, what is controversial for us at the Croatian People's Party club of Liberal Democrats is the fact that these amendments and additions of the law are practically legalized by unacceptable practices from the past when the spending of taxpayers' budget money has been covered up due to bank recovery. But not because banks had been rehabilitated, but because the bank's recovery process was conducted in such a way that the state did not protect the interests of public money, i.e. taxpayers' money, but was practically giving it into invaluableness. It is obvious, therefore, that the funds used to resuscitate banks not only during the period discussed in this Croatian Parliament in 2005, which is the period of '95. until 2000 when six banks were rescheduled than before. We heard from fellow Marić an analysis that is much bolder and that goes far beyond the report discussed by the Parliament in 2005. If what Mr. Maric says is true is that it is almost 80 or more than 80 billion kuna, then the question is what the state has done as the master of this public money to protect the interests of taxpayers who have singled out those funds and to turn these roles into different forms of state interest as owners. Unfortunately, something quite the opposite happened that the state from taxpayers' funds, so from budget funds, had rescheduled a whole series of banks. But not only that, but if it were some banks, I wouldn't even dare believe it was an oversight. I think it was a serious intention to make it possible to out-of-the-counter material assets, a large number of real estates, and in fact, in privatisation, or the sale of banks, that this huge property remained under the table practically invisible so that later it would turn out that there are a number of citizens who are entitled to that property that the bank then passed by all the regulations, but apparently with political protection took as their property. It is clear in its reasoning that this legislative regulation, which is proposed, provides that when funds in the deposit insurance fund are transferred to the Agency, the amount of 2 and a half percent of the total amount of the secured deposits in all credit institutions shall be determined on 31 December of the previous year, the amount of the annual premium for the current year may also be fixed at a lower level. In addition, it is argued that the assets of the Deposit Insurance Fund are made up of premiums and the funds charged in bankruptcy proceedings against banks and savings banks on the basis of the payment of the collateral or the funds from the collection of the property and bankruptcy proceedings of banks and savings banks, the proceeds from the investment of the Free Fund for the Insurance of Deposits and the exceptional funds from the state budget. Let's remind myself, I will remain only for that period that was officially reported in this Croatian Parliament in 2005. So, it's a much, much less comprehensive review than that given by fellow Maric, and that's what's covered by the report on the implementation of the resolution and restructuring of banks under the Law on Restitution and restructuring of banks, and that report was adopted in this House. It's said in that report that it's been since October '95. By May 2000, 6 banks were recovered, spending a total of 11 billion and 498 million kuna. And they're majors without interest. These funds were used to resuscitate Slavonska, Splitska, Rijeka, Privredne, Dubrovačka and Croatia banks. So 11 million, 11 and a half billion kunas went to the rescue of only these banks and only in this five-year period. On the other hand, the State Agency managed to charge the basis of various types of income in connection with this recovery only 6,475 billion. So 6 billion 475 million kuna. It's a total loss of 5 billion kuna. And now the question is why do we go to this solution that can allow the annual premium for the current year to be determined in a lower amount and in this way we consciously forget all the funds that have been invested in the recovery of banks and we know that the state is taking risks because it takes, therefore, all the controversial risk claims and is actually trying to charge itself through the asset management sector in a way that collects as many claims as possible by the consolidation of the company itself that is also being taken over by privatisation of companies covered by the bank portfolio, by selling claims, by selling real estates that have served as collateral for loans, in particular by selling shares and equity shares in companies. And now why should the funds charged from the rehabilitation and restructuring of Croatian banks serve to reduce the obligations of Croatian banks? How are Croatian, so-called Croatian banks, these are all, of course, banks registered in the Republic of Croatia, but we know that most of these banks are with mothers abroad. How did they respond to the welfare of the state and the kindness of society in this financial and economic crisis? There's been a lot of talk about it, but let's say again, it's not burning. The banking, or financial system in the Republic of Croatia is the most stable part of the overall economic financial system in the Republic of Croatia, unlike other countries, especially those in transition, but also Western European countries, and in particular the United States, the heart of the crisis is not in the financial sector when we talk about our situation, but in public. In the state sector. Banks, whose counterpart Maras pointed out, immediately jumped to help by increasing the level of secured deposits to $400,000, which was not done by any other country in Europe at that time, but only later. At that time, banks cut all possible loans to citizens and the economy, rapidly diminished the possibility of spending in the Republic of Croatia, which directly contributed to job losses, especially in trade, service activities, where the issue of bank credit for crafts is almost a matter of life and death of certain activities, especially those that are conjuncturous by seasons. And now you have a situation that citizens can't get credit either, that they're high interest rates of the dam, that they're engaged in free capital at all, and on the other hand the state takes on very high interest funds and actually sucks all the cash out of the banks and the banks sleep peacefully because they know that they've placed funds relatively to one partner on very high interest rates. So the banks extended themselves to their positional rent, marked by huge funds to resuscitate banks that went out of the pockets of Croatian citizens. It's the bank position. While other banks in the environment are now destroying housing loans, the amount of interest on housing loans to 2 and a half percent in order to bring citizens back to the real estate market, to ensure the life of the construction industry, so far in the Republic of Croatia, the data indicate that there are more than 10,000 new unsold apartments in Zagreb alone. It's a dead capital that stands and makes life miserable for everyone in the chain from those who don't have an apartment, to those who have invested their own funds in the apartment, to those who have already committed themselves to the loans because of the investments themselves, and today they can't sell those apartments. It's not just the question of the price of the apartment, because the price of real estate is seriously adjusted down because of the situation on the market, but the fact is that banks don't place their funds on citizens. And then how are we gonna expect a quick recovery? Very difficult. And on the other hand, citizens continue to increase personal, or private bank savings show that they are willing to allow these banks to continue to function normally, and the level of savings of citizens who have already grown over a hundred billion kunas, says that citizens have no problem with trust in banks. And instead of the banks returning it, they play one of the very important parts of the story in slowing down the end of this financial economic crisis. And now with this new solution, we say that we can reduce those two and a half percent. And why would they cut it down? After all these billions that all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia invested through the state budget in the recovery of these banks, banks act the way they behave. I'm sorry, but there's someone who's the sponsor of this process. This sponsor is certainly not entrepreneurs who are squirming without the necessary capital on the market, especially now in winter, when the conjuncture is not prone to much of our service activities. They are certainly neither citizens nor opposition. The government of the Republic of Croatia should be much more responsible in this regard, because let's look at what the United States administration did when it entered the recovery of banks. She had no problem with it, but she certainly put it as an important task to take ownership. The value of these funds has turned into a holding stake, and on the other hand, it has had quite a chance for these Wall Streat banking bonus scandals to react and threaten that all the funds they spent in the recovery of financial institutions will be withdrawn if bank managers behave accordingly. The way they behave with us, we all know that very well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44697	Thank you. And we're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Honorable Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44698	Vice President of the Parliament. So here's the thing about this law, about amendments and additions to the Deposit Insurance Act, we need to note and see two things that go into it. It is the first agility of European institutions to reduce deposit insurance deadlines to a lesser extent and that is good. Three weeks to realize that they're lost, and then three months to pay off those deposits. And that's something on the trail of what Europe is doing and it's not bad. But on the other hand, there is a tendency to reduce interest, i.e. Let's say the stake to secure deposits through the fund from 0.4% to 0.32% annually, in the conditions of a stable financial system, significantly help the Croatian banking system. Well, he won't. Definitely not, and this provision will definitely not help Croatia's banking system much. What was a good reaction from the government, and that should definitely be said, is the increase, regardless of the bank account, the rates of secured deposits from 100 thousand kuna to 400 thousand kuna, but at that time, it is now seen on the trail of the European Directive, so we had to do it sooner or later, so Europe moved that border to 50,000 euros. Now, what is going through the same thing as the thesis and what is not good is that in some way it is pronounced as one of the great successes of the government something that has been touched by fellow Maric, and it is about the recovery of banks. Unfortunately, in Croatia, the recovery of banks cost more than money obtained by selling these banks, and that is something that is clear to everyone that can be clearly doubted about the honesty of this process. If a bank's recovery costs more than the sale of these banks themselves, then it's obviously a suspicious process. Unfortunately, I hope that certain actions on this issue in future times will be taken to explore this one of the most sensitive sectors in Croatia. However, the most responsible institution primarily for the stability of the financial and banking sector is certainly the central bank, i.e. the Croatian National Bank, because without its legal proposals, without what it suggests through monetary policy measures, it is certain that there will be no stability of the financial sector. This stability and this stability are primarily through a provision of capital adequateness which has now been passed through the Credit Institutions Act and has previously been passed through the Banks Act, and it is at a level of 12% of the risk-weighted assets, while in the European countries it is at 8%. It is precisely out of the possibility for banks in Croatia to be very capitalised, i.e. to have more capital than their placements, to have a smaller financial leverage, thus making it impossible for the Croatian banking system to draw a deposit, possibly by stamping banks to seriously endanger the financial sector. However, what concerns in Croatia are definitely public finances, i.e. public sector debt and total public debt. The total public debt as such in Croatia is even lower compared to some countries, compared to many of them is higher but, for example, compared to some countries even lower, however, what passes if it is the possibility of the state or the Croatian economy to service its public debt. And here we are in a serious problem because in 2010 alone, more than 10 billion foreign debt comes to us and that is what seriously endangers Croatia's efforts to achieve a favourable economic outcome. On the other hand, this year, the state itself, already the best known colleagues from the Ministry of Finance, is in charge of the new 11 billion kuna, thus increasing the internal debt, has reduced the external debt, the internal debt has increased by 10.3 billion kuna. And that's one situation where we can't deal with budget expenditures, but we cover them by borrowing on the internal market for which we pay a relatively high debt rate for domestic banks, something a colleague of Maric said about it. In this way, the banks have a safe placement in the state, they push out money to our entrepreneurs, our businesses, and they need to be in debt outside, but unfortunately, it happens that precisely because of such a safe borrowing of the state, depending on its credit rating, the price of the deposit increases. Time in the United States after the economic depression of the '30s, there were limited interest rates on deposits. It is precisely because it would detimise the public to invest in savings deposits that represent 130 billion kuna in Croatia, which is these savings deposits, which is huge money, which is not adequately and well used. This was forbidden in America precisely to direct that money mass from banks, from the notion that it was easier to have the funds at the bank than to invest in production, rather than invest in anything that bears a new value, that interest rate was limited. Here are the examples now that some European countries have a lower passive interest rate. Well, normally they have a lower passive interest rate because it is also national legislation to try to regulate state finances in a way that has a regulatory impact on the banking sector, which in Croatia we have very little maneuvering opportunities for this. In particular, let's say that because of the riots in state finances, our credit fund swap is at the moment when we're talking over 2.15, which means that our extra interest rate is precisely due to the risk of the state itself is 2.15% to the withdrawal means money outside. This means that our citizens, at the interest rate of capital costs that banks withdraw from somewhere, still have to pay 2.15% of the additional risk premium due to the credit risk associated with the country's own risk, and it is linked to the country's own risk because of the country's ability to service its own liabilities, due to the public debt rate, due to exposure due to everything that affects that credit risk. Therefore, the price of state finances or higher budget expenditures compared to revenues, not implementing reforms, is currently being paid by Croatian citizens at an increased rate for all debts. If this is added to 80 % of loans in the European Union are loans that are mortgage loans, which are aimed at building i.e. The financing of investments, especially housing from which it is paid, i.e. the investor pays off the municipal contribution in which the investment cycle is encouraged while in Croatia the share of these housing loans is only 48%, is definitely said that Croatian society is in some way in this part of which spends too much on the basic elemental daily consumption, and this has less and less chance for this to change in the long term for better or less consumption prospects in the next year, and I will even say in the following year because, according to all announcements, if 50 thousand people are left out of work next year, then that spending will fall, of course, budget revenues will fall, and will not grow as planned by the state budget. It is therefore essential to say, in the end, that this issue of deposit insurance is a question which, in accordance with European directives, has introduced a newspaper on deadline cuts, but it will definitely not have a consequence of cost reductions, meaning capital expenditure for Croatian citizens, it will practically not affect it at all, because this is the provision that reduces the security of the deposits itself, not in the spirit of what it might want to achieve, it will definitely not happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44699	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44700	Thank you very much. It's not a replica. Now I'm going to have an individual discussion and look back at your exposure. Why did I pick up individually after the club? Well, because the media keeps keeping some facts quiet. When I said in this House the other day that employers who, i.e. the Association of Employers who persistently mourns and criticises the government that there are no conditions to attract, to manage, to entrepreneurship, when I announced that they had achieved in 8 years 30 billion euros to get a net or a medium did not pass it on. This was also referred to by counterpart Lesar, who repeated it five times precisely because the media did not transmit it either. How do I know they're not going to pass on these numbers you're talking about the resolutions I've broken down for the first time in this House today I'm going to repeat it one more time. Without structure, because today in the structure I explained that the Republic of Croatia has invested 87.4 billion in the recovery of banks from independence to date, and that it has therefore been revenueing 5.3 billion. Of course, they seek how good it is for the Republic of Croatia to defend just those who have created, designed and participated in the process, and directly installed themselves as president of the management of these banks or from that bank for their investment funds, and today they are smart for all of Croatia. That's why I repeat this thing one more time. It is not in the interest of the Republic of Croatia made, it is made in the interest of individuals, but those who have been taking part in it persistently consider all those who think differently from them or don't think like them, ignorants, weirdos or what I know of the unspeakable or otherwise. The government of the Republic of Croatia has done much for the banking system and for the security of the banking system. We can list what I did today, but most importantly, at the most critical moment, she reacted and increased the insurance savings from 100,000 to 400 thousand savings. It was seen from the data that the citizens' deposit rose rapidly from 120 billion to 149 billion. It restored citizens' trust in the banking system. And why didn't this stable banking system bring about the expected fruit? This is precisely because of bankers, of course, and they, together with monetary policy, are responsible for this stable banking system, i.e. the whole economy's blood flow being a good circulation. Unfortunately, we have a bloodstream, and we don't have a good circulation. And that's the problem of the Croatian banking sector. So it's undeniable how much the government did, and it's undeniable what the banks did at the same time. In this share that has been said to have earned the biggest profit in Croatian employers exactly the largest share of banks, 30 billion kuna net profits in the last 10 years. And it is undisputed that society in Croatia has disintegrated. Who broke it down? The most banks have distributed this society. They became the main instrument of disseminating society. They give credit to whoever they want, the interest they want. They give loans to investment funds, to buy bonds, to buy shares, not to give to entrepreneurs. They don't give real entrepreneurs, and even when they do, interest rates are 30% higher than others, and then after the deal, they change those contracts unilaterally. However, it has become a subject of expert debate. I warned you today. See, are there any legal provisions in the loan agreements? It will be devoted to the professional public and will be addressed. If some other institutions had put such provisions into contracts as banks in loans, they would have been worthless long ago. However, in '99. the fatal year was for the banking system. At that time, he scheduled surveillance, then misjudged, all the banks reported that they had a 100% payment of their claims, and it is known that even at the rate of mandatory reserves they did not equate, but that the directors had decided with their own will, including the "Dubrovacka Bank", 10%, so requested the director. The National Bank kept quiet about all that. Even when the Slavonska Banka case was, which is why the Republic of Croatia was forced to pay 40m euros in compensation, the governor of the former National Bank refused to testify, but therefore settled in that bank that was privatised in such a miraculous way. So I'm not surprised that some of these very successful operations for themselves, along with the harmonica, sang on that day across the street and the Partisan songs and rejoiced late into the night. They had why, for themselves, and they forgot the Croatian man. They forgot every citizen of the Republic of Croatia, they forgot the economy of the Republic of Croatia because it is not in their interest. The leaders of certain banks as if they had read their entire literature in their lives from Grisham "Complex Brothers" or "The Letter of the Elderly Devil to the Young Devil". And most of all they talk about indifference and welfare, and they don't have at all, they're not invited to talk about it because they don't know what's social or what's indifference. While they receive 3.5 million or 5 million kunas net annually, net annually, they can't talk about welfare and property. No one can talk about war who his son isn't in the war. Both Croatians and the Croatian economy were exhausted by a selective credit policy. Some companies are not only at their own business bank but have met the limits allowed by all business banks, and none of these loans are declared to be non-refundable or partially non-refundable. They're all 100% chargeable, and the others can't get to the loan. What just happened to the Croatian Post Office? Well, it's not what's happening now, it hasn't happened in two days, it's been going on for the last five years. The president of that bank's management received a million 740 thousand kuna a year. For what? To do what he did. But who is it, I said today, is not the supervisory board in charge of taking care of risks and placements, but the central bank is doing it. It also gives consent to the presidents of the administration. The government can't appoint anyone president of the bank's administration unless the central bank agrees. She can also withdraw the license, she can ban the law, she can name it unnamed. We always turn responsibility to where it may be and where it is not. And when I mentioned the advice of the National Bank, how come we haven't heard about the problems in the Croatian Post Bank before? What was radio surveillance? Then one member of the council said, so not everyone is evil for evil. So there's finally a chance to sell that bank to foreign owners because you can see that ours can't run banks. It is such a thesis unmuffled, unacceptable, judgmental, such a man is no place in the advice of the National Bank of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44701	Thank you. We have one replica. It is Honorable Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44702	Thank you very much. So when you talked about the Croatian postal bank, you said and mentioned the responsibility of the Croatian National Bank as a central bank. As far as the bank's supervisory system is concerned. However, he is the owner's responsibility, and he owns the state, and the government stands for appointment in Croatia. So, if there's talk of liability, the guilt is at least divided in that case. That's one thing. The second thing when you mentioned those who privatized the banking sector for the most part, and they were part of the political elite at the time. I must remind you that these people who are sitting at the head of the bank administration today, and they privatised the Croatian banking sector at the time, were formerly members of the HDZ, and today some of them are advisers of Prime Minister Kosor. Therefore, these things must be agreed between you whether you will clear them sooner or later. I agree with you that you were not a member of the HDZ at the time, but they were. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44703	I think here, let's stick to the people of the topic. Well, there's no working subject here who's a member of that party. Please, I'll interrupt anyone who won't stick to the subject from now on. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44704	Thank you very much. My colleague, these core problems of the banking system are not related to either HDZ or SDP. You will never hear such a word from my mouth. But since you've already called HDZ personnel, of course that applies at the time of the SDP, I regret to say so. I don't like to comment like that. But what the State Agency for Resuscitation of Deposit Insurance and Bank Rehabilitation was doing in the '90s, 2000, so it's scary. You're better off when you have time I'll let you read that file, so you'll see. But it is not equal to the responsibility of the government and the central bank in the supervision of the Croatian Post Bank and of all other banks. Exceptional supervision... is placed in the jurisdiction of monetary policy and central bank of the Republic of Croatia. She's independent of it. Even on undisclosed data, how much direct surveillance she's done in which bank. And if we had before we knew about the risks, then the president of the administration would have replaced him four years ago if she had that knowledge. And that knowledge can only be obtained from the central bank. Not even the State Agency for Deposit Insurance and Bank Rehabilitation has the right to control or see the bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44705	Thank you. And I'm concluding a debate on that point. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44706	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act. It was an emergency procedure. P.Z.E. No. 477. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This bill was adopted by most votes, 106 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 1 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44707	We move to the third item of the agenda, and this - Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on credit institutions, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 478 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. This Regulation shall enter Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ivana Maletic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44708	Honorable Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Thank you very much. Here are these amendments and additions to the Credit Institutions Act as amendments and additions to the Deposit Insurance Act with amendments to the European Directives and alignment with the amendments to the European Directives. The most significant amendments relate to the amendments to the directive governing the operations of electronic money institutions. This practically does not have any major implications for us in practice, because we do not have these electronic money institutions, but we need to coordinate regulatoryly so that since 1 January 2011, we are also ousting them from that scope of credit institutions. We are also in line with the amendment to the directive governing the deposit insurance system, and this amendment was also in the Deposit Insurance Act. So this is a deadline cut. But what is important to stress is that these deadlines for determining the inaccessibility of deposits that are now reduced to 21 days to 5 working days will not now be reduced immediately by the effect of changes and additions, but by entering membership. So when we become a member country by entering the European Union and we get the status of a member, then we are essentially starting to apply these provisions relating to the reduction of deadlines. The third part of the amendments is related to the amendment and addition of the directive, which regulates the business of credit institutions. In fact, the maximum permitted exposure is limited, i.e. the methodology of calculating the maximum permitted exposure in such a way that exposure to one person or roughly related persons is reduced by the effects of the application of credit protection and a new method of determining the maximum permitted exposure to another credit institution or investment company and a group of associated persons is prescribed so that it cannot exceed the amount of 25% of the guaranteed capital of the credit institution or amount of 3 million kuna, depending on what is greater. Here are about the most significant changes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44709	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. First of all, the distinguished representative of Danica Hursa is on behalf of the club of HNS representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44710	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the honorable secretary of state with an associate, colleague and colleague. By adding to the negotiating position of the Republic of Croatia for Chapter 9-Financing Services of June this year, the Republic of Croatia has adopted the legal acquis of the European Union in that chapter, in force from 1 June 2009, and has expressed its readiness to achieve its full implementation until its accession to the European Union. By adopting the Credit Institutions Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2009, the Republic of Croatia created the necessary legal framework for the implementation of this highest supervisory standard. In order to adapt to the provisions relating to the application of Basel 2 standards to credit institutions, an initial period was left until 1 July 2009. The advantage of introducing Basel 2 standards and new rules is increased sensitivity of capital requirements to risks. This means that the bank whose credit portfolio is low will have lower capital requirements than the bank whose exposure to credit risk is higher. Banks will be encouraged to improve their own risk management systems, which should improve timely risk identification, result in more precise risk measurement, quality control of risk exposure and so on, and ultimately greater bank stability individually and banking system as a whole. The amendments and additions to the Credit Institutions Act have extended and complemented existing provisions in certain chapters in order to comply with the latest European Union directives. It may be important here to point out that the emphasis has been placed on the risk control system in the business of banks, while there has been a lack of emphasis on respecting the legality of business when it comes to legal and physical persons in the Republic of Croatia. In chapter 21. Consumer protection has been introduced by a certain newspaper. The term "user" is consistent with the definition of the same concept in Croatian legislation, and it is proposed to introduce a provision on non-judicial dispute resolution which is nothing new. This is already foreseen by the Consumer Protection Act. However, no legal provision provides for the monitoring of the application of the law by the CNB in the part of the implementation of the general operating conditions containing information on the terms and conditions of the provision of services and/or the credit granted under which the rates of regular and tightened interest may be changed during use, or credit payments. In this area, there is a complete freedom of the banks that, in accordance with their unilateral decisions on interest rates, which are made by the bank's administrations without any reason other than market conditions, they can change up to two, up to three times a year and in times of economic and economic crisis. The CNB is not competent to resolve disputes between consumers and banks, but it is competent to control whether banks comply with compliance with business law and whether they violate legal provisions or their own general conditions of business and whether these conditions are in accordance with Croatian law. There is no word on this and such control and responsibility of the CNB in the proposed law. Interests on existing credit agreements are unilaterally changed, and so on. non-performing revenues are increased and introduced into new services from day to day, without any control and influence of the CNB, for example, when the cost of the notice is charged from 50 to 250 kuna, although by calculating the tight interest rates on outstanding liabilities under the client debt law. But why don't you get an extra profit without a base and totally arbitrary? Both these amendments and additions try to bring the Credit Institutions Act into line with the EU acquis and increase control mechanisms in part of the credit and credit rating analysis of banks. But there is a complete lack of control and mechanisms to protect the rights of clients, especially consumers who are left to non-judicial solutions, often completely unprepared institutions that should bring a legal framework for very complex banking products or the launch of long-term and expensive disputes in competent courts, which is difficult to decide and financially prepared consumers than the average consumer not given by the CNB any support and monitoring of the problem encountered in dealing with Croatian banks under quotes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44711	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44712	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. State secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. The SDP advocates' club will support the amendment and addition of the Credit Institutions Act and we heard something from the opening presentation that is being amended, i.e. the newspaper's proposals made by the Government. The reasons are primarily meant that the amendments and additions were initiated in the first order of amendments to the directive in capital requirements, in order to further harmonise the law or to comply with the rules of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis, on the other hand, it is certain that these amendments will improve and improve some of the provisions of the law, which we have seen, or which the Government has seen during the period of application of this Act, so that they can be improved. Of course, this Law defines an area that is extremely important for Croatian citizens, it is about credit institutions, or security and supervision of business over them. What we can see from these few months past is how important it is and how in accordance with this Law certain things can be controlled and sanctioned is spoken in the case of the Croatian Post Office, where the CNB has launched due to the lack of internal controls and misapplication procedures against the former chairman of the bank's management and supervisory board and which threaten the sanctions of up to 100 thousand kuna. So we have to have control of the system and people who are doing a job that corresponds to the end and the state, because we saw in the previous amendment of the State Law responsible for some roles that might not be safe if the bank is doing a risky business. So Protega and Sladoljev will be punished for failing to comply with this law in the way they should have actually had no quality internal procedures. But what's important is to say, given this, something a colleague of Hursa was saying before me, protecting consumers, we need to have greater interference and greater control over what our citizens are paying because quite often credit institutions I would say and lure for a certain profit, for certain fees that then ultimately citizens have to pay. For this to be seen from a constant reduction in interest income, we see this from the latest CNB report which is still the most dominant because the profession itself is the income from interest accounts as the main one, but every year the income from interest in the share of the total bank revenues is getting smaller because many fees are being paid, many for only banks known reasons, and therefore we need to have consumer protection to ensure that they pay at a certain price something they really need. The most important corrections and additions to this Act, which we have seen, which we support, are, of course, the regulation of the issues of acquiring qualified shares by the subsequent creation of connectivity. The further definition of exposure is specified, of course we must not forget that, in part, the recommendation of the Ombudsman for the protection of children's rights is included in one provision in the Law so that certain measures for the protection of children's rights can be taken under the Law. The process of refusal of the audit report, etc., is specified. So the Club of Representatives of the SDP will support the amendments to this Act and we think that never enough control and enough control over this area that is of course very important for all our fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44713	Thank you. And on behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44714	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. So this is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on credit institutions as a result of compliance with the Capital Requirements Directive. We have only a few important changes, the most important thing is that the Electronic Money Institution will no longer be considered a credit institution from 1 January 2011. DRAFT is introduced a new calculation methodology for limiting the maximum permitted exposure that includes and is reduced for the effects of the application of credit protection. A new way of determining the maximum permitted exposure to another credit institution or investment company is also introduced, and more detailed provisions on the revision of financial reports and audit for the needs of the Croatian National Bank are laid down. The provisions concerning forced liquidation and bankruptcy of financial institutions have been amended and are in line with the practice of the conduct of Croatian courts with the provisions of the bankruptcy law. The HDZ Club supports the adoption of this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Credit Institutions Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44715	Thank you. We move to an individual debate and is the first respected representative of Kreso Filipović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44716	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Institutions, so the Law adopted by the Croatian Parliament is slightly more than 14 months or more specifically on 26 September 2008. It is necessary to say that, in the meantime, during June of this year, we have already discussed this matter, and the first amendments to the law on credit institutions have been passed. The fact that in this relatively short time for the second time we are discussing the same legislation simply leads us to the conclusion that legal regulations or state legislation are one living matter subject to the constant changes that occur due to their timely adaptation to new or amended circumstances. Both at national level and those that occur in our environment. For us in the Republic of Croatia during this pre-accession period, the changes that are taking place at European Union level are particularly interesting, but also which we must but also want to adopt and implement in our legislative framework. For this reason, in September last year, the Croatian Parliament adopted a new Law on Credit Institutions, which until recently was fully in line with the relevant directives of the European Union and which represented a significant step forward in the direction of stability, security and orderly business of credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia. The law was published in the National Journal 117 of 2008, and came to us naked on 1 January 2009, while its amendments were published in National No. 74 of this year. Let us remember how the Credit Institutions Act generally regulates the conditions for the establishment and operation and termination of the work of banks and other credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia and the supervisory of their business, etc., not to list. It also introduces a brand new concept, therefore, of a credit institution which, according to the applicable provisions, represents a legal person who deals with the activities of receiving deposits or other funds from the public and granting credit to his account, and with the activity of issuing money in the form of electronic money, and can be established as banks, savings banks, residential savings banks or electronic money institutions. Here, it is necessary to say that the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Institutions is a preliminary definition of a partial amendment, given that electronic money institutions are no longer considered as credit institutions in accordance with the European Directive 110 of September 2009. Furthermore, the Law amending the Law on Credit Institutions adopted by the Croatian Parliament on 23 June of this year did not make any substantial changes but changes in a purely technical nature that have shifted certain deadlines for the harmonisation of credit institutions with the provisions of the law. Therefore, already at that time in the debate, it was stressed that the reason for moving deadlines for harmonisation was, and thus, avoiding multiple harmonisation and possible high costs for credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia, so we are expected to do much more extensively and significantly greater changes in the law in view of the fact that the European Commission has changed a number of directives that regulate the business of credit institutions since the date of entry into force of the Credit Institutions Act. It is precisely doing the above mentioned facts but also because of the need for horizontal harmonisation of certain provisions of the Law on Credit Institutions with national legislation, and the need for its nomotechnical arrangement, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also proposed this law. Since the proposed amendments and amendments to the law on credit institutions are really very extensive as they are, and announced, I will try only to list in the short lines those most important changes and additions. Dude, let me just finish, I think. The electronic money institutions will therefore no longer be considered credit institutions after 1 January 2011, the concept of a consolidated supervisory perspective is introduced, and in this context amended and updated provisions relating to the cooperation of the Croatian National Bank with the competent authorities of other Member States are amended the provisions relating to the maximum permitted exposure of a credit institution to one person or group of connected persons. The part of the laws regulating the relationship between the Croatian National Bank and external auditors has improved the evaluation provisions that the audit company provides for the needs of the Croatian National Bank. Here and I will respect the suggestion, i.e. the comment of my colleague Marić, and I will shorten my debate and I will say that I will fully support this law, i.e. amendments and additions to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44717	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44718	Dear Vice President, here is when a year and a half ago we discussed the Credit Institutions Act, and then some of the solutions in the European directives were adopted, which primarily relate to the increasingly turbulent financial sector market, and that is, above all, the solution of the Capital Adequateness Directive, so on. Capital... Directly, then the 2001 Directives, so-called linguing up the directive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For the purpose of improving the capital requirements of banks themselves, the Directives were designed to make banks safer in the European Union in particular where the rate of capital requirements, i.e. the minimum capitalisation of banks, is much lower than in Croatia. That's one thing. The second thing, the way, the models, the classification and the risk monitoring of something that newspapers as well as through the Basel Standard, Basel II standard recognized and introduced into the new Credit Institutions Act, and through our directives, the Credit Institutions Act actually became a reality. The third thing is related to supervisory, unfortunately and supervisory compensation, which will ultimately be borne by Croatian citizens through the operational costs of the banks themselves. The increase in every regulation and improvement of every regulation is ultimately carried by Croatian citizens. And the fourth thing that's very important is what we've been arguing about and that's an independent member of the Supervisory Board, so whoever's with the HNB supervisor has the task of saying so to control the bank's business. Now, the question is whether things in Croatia would happen to the postal bank if one independent member of the supervisory board, and not the one appointed on the political line, was in the Croatian Post Office for all this time while the risks were being placed, while losses were being made, while losses were being made at the end, which would have to be covered by Croatian citizens. That's what costs and that's what worries. It is precisely because of the increasingly turbulent developments in the capital market, and the reason for this is that the speed of events should definitely be sought in the global crisis, which is primarily the financial crisis that later has become overrun in the real sector. We also announced a year and a half ago that the Credit Institutions Act, regardless of what a respectable institution as the Croatian National Bank has proposed, would also have to experience certain changes, because it is a market that is very changing from day to day, especially because it has been exposed to major crisis pressures, especially in the last two years. And that's what happened. We did not have to be too psychic to witness the new directives that the European Union somehow sent to us in May, or April, and announced in September 2009 so that the only logical procedure was to postpone this law on credit institutions and to extend its use. And now on the trail of these necessary things that have come through European directives in line with the harmonisation of the things that have changed completely, and one of these things is the exemption of electronic money institutions. In fact, the European Union itself has needs and examines ultimately and its decisions, the correctness of its decisions, so that in particular in the financial section it is a matter of living matter. When it comes to electronic money institutions and electronic money institutions, then it is also important to know that the European Union is definitely not the one leading the game, but most of the use of electronic money let's say on a global scale it comes from outside the territory of the European Union. So, in that field, I'm sure and I can't be in the trend of the best legal solutions. But they definitely have to follow them. Therefore, it is no wonder that there is an enhanced change in regulation in this area. The things that are covered by these amendments that have been numbered by the predecessors are meant for me only to count some of the most important corrections and additions, which are on the trail of the amended legislation of the European Union. It's a question of acquiring a qualified stake. I think it's one of the things that needs to be done, which in my personal opinion, and in my opinion, I have a feeling that the professional public is likely to experience some more changes in the coming period. Of course, very live matter in this respect is also the definition of exposure that is precise in relation to the original proposal of the institutions, i.e. Credit institutions law. What my colleague Maras mentioned as one important thing, and about the protection and protection of children's rights, and through the possible exemption from the obligation to keep the bank's secret, is definitely a measure that protects children's rights, and we were ultimately witnesses and numerous legal solutions, i.e. proposals for legal solutions, etc. special laws that are obliged to regulate the situation especially each in its area, and many areas are just connected to the protection of children's rights. The process of refusal of the audit report and the assessment of the needs of the Croatian National Bank is something that has been changed in some way. Then what's important is that in this law, it's technically consistent with this previous law that we had the opportunity to discuss earlier, and it's related to deposit insurance. So in the way after which and the time after which the Croatian National Bank, and the time of three weeks, finds that deposits have been lost and the time in which the European Union itself has demanded that these deadlines be reduced to three months in order to maintain trust in the banking sector, in order to maintain trust in financial stability, and to ultimately reduce the possibilities for any kind of global crisis in the light of the global crisis, so I would dare even say paranoia when it comes to the financial sector, i.e. the banking sector. What to say in the end is that with the very idea of a supervisor around which a lot has been raised and in some way I would say polemics, especially by the professional public, were the reactions of the bank association related to the very notion of supervision, for the cost of supervisory. Now the way and scope of decision-making in the college of supervisors has changed. So it was introduced in some way, it introduced power and the concept of consolidated supervisors, which also has the consequence of a newspaper. And the provisions related to the assessment given by the audit company for the needs of the Croatian National Bank have been improved. I think it is necessary in the light of all the events followed by the business, especially this state-owned bank, the Croatian Post Bank, which unfortunately leaves many tails behind, thanks to inadequate placements, because eventually Croatian citizens will have to solve the problems created in the Croatian Post Bank, because this will definitely not be solved by themselves. And on the other hand, and what is needed and must not be forgotten that it is precisely one of the main causes and the culprits actually for such a state of owner, or state. Of course, the responsibility lies with the Croatian National Bank, which is through certain instruments, and will also try to improve the provisions in this law. But the fact is also that it cannot be avoided from the responsibility of the owner, because in Croatia, what I will say and what I will conclude in accordance with the proposals and European directives, according to the Credit Institutions Act, an independent member of the Supervisory Board, perhaps such losses, criminal actions that took place in the Croatian postal bank would be prevented. That's not the case. Therefore, along with the CNB, and thanks to international standards, the CNB should not be so blamed. The highest responsibility is definitely given by the owner, i.e. the state, or members of the Supervisory Board, who are appointed on the political line.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44719	We have one replica. It's the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44720	Thank you very much. My colleague Bernardić, you have just encouraged me with these final sentences, and I would like to point out that I am particularly pleased with the additions related to the consent to appoint the president of the administration. So it's very likely that Mr. Protega would never have become president of the administration if his appointment had been carried out under this new law. Because of what very likely then the CNB would ask for an additional presentation of him as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44721	Your Honor. I didn't want to warn your colleague in the end that what he's saying is not a topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44722	No, no, what I'm saying is the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44723	That's why I'm asking you, it's not the subject of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44724	This is the subject, absolutely the subject. For the first time, it is required that the CNB's prior consent be given to appoint a man president of the administration, so that's it. ... No, but the last one. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The agreement must be, so that, if the issue had been with Mr. Protega, he would in that case very likely not have obtained that consent and would not have been appointed President of the Administration. Here's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44725	I mean, I really have to warn you to stick to the subject. I know you want to politicize, a little bit of a political shift, but I have to tell you before I give you my word, it's been published in the paper that there are risky loans. You call it a crime scene, you call it a huge loss. And wait for an analysis of the fact that we don't really do everything in the Parliament sensation. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44726	Here, thank you, Vice President, for your intervention. I think it was quality. What we can say and what I can respond to is that, through this proposal, and in particular by the European Commission, through the European Directives, we unfortunately face the situation that Europe suggests where we will go, or how we will fix our legislation, so that we do not make much more mistakes in the future. And so our dream of getting prepared into the European Union is definitely not going to come true. We are the only chance to enter the European Union as soon as possible, as European laws will start to apply in this case, laws in line with the legal acquis of the European Union that will not allow for the arbitrary interpretation of individual laws, as has been the case in certain segments in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44727	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It's the Honorable representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44728	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a summary of this proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Institutions. We have said and we know that this legislative proposal harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation, and unlike my colleagues, Bernardic, I think that there is nothing wrong with that, but we will get better quality laws in line with EU law. As there has been an amendment to certain EU directives since 01 January 2011, Croatia's legislation must also be harmonised through the Credit Institutions Act. What are the most significant changes? So after 01.01.2011, electronic money institutions will no longer be considered credit institutions, and the electronic money issue service will be set aside from the service of issuing other payment funds. Furthermore, through the relationship between the Croatian National Bank, external auditors, the provisions related to the assessment given by the Audit Society for the needs of the CNB have been improved. The terms of the liquidation of the credit institution and the bankruptcy of the credit institution are then in line with the practice of the conduct of Croatian courts and the provisions of the bankruptcy law applicable in the Republic of Croatia. Finally, the concept of consumers is in line with the definition of the same concept in Croatian legislation, and the introduction of a provision on non-judicial dispute resolution is also proposed. The proposed law aims to enable credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia to send according to the principles applied by credit institutions in the EU. As already said by the adoption of this law, further harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the EU will be carried out, and I think that all the harmonisations we have been doing lately should be seen in the context of the positive news that is coming to us these days from the EU. On the launch of the agreement, on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, on the definition of the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU and on the substantial resources available to us since the beginning of 2012 and on the increasing dynamics of the opening and closure of the negotiating chapters. For all these reasons, I support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44729	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44730	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Institutions. It was an emergency procedure. P.Z.E. 478. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Mr. Zdravko Maric, State Secretary. I request an amendment to Articles 62 and 67.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44731	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44732	This amendment becomes a draft law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44733	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44734	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Third amendment to Article 76
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44735	This amendment is not accepted. A brief explanation. In order to implement infringement proceedings based on the provisions of the Bank Act which are in force until 30 March 2010, which may be followed after that day, it is necessary that the provision of Article 182. The law on banks remains in force in order to avoid the rejection of indictments by law enforcement courts under the provisions of the Law on Banks which are in force until that date.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44736	On behalf of the Legislative Committee, Mr Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44737	Mr. President, we're pulling this as well as amendment number four.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44738	So amendment number three to seventy-six and four to seventy-eight has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44739	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44740	Okay. Thank you. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Institutions. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was adopted by the majority of votes, 112 votes for, 2 abstentions, nothing against along with accepted amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44741	We move to the fourth item of the agenda, that is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on compulsory health insurance, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 481. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines first and second readings, amendment laws. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Care. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ante Zvonimir Golem, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44742	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. In accordance with the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament of 15 December 2008 which obliged the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prepare and create legal assumptions within 1 year for the separation of financial operations of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance from the State Treasury, there is a proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Health Insurance in which the law therefore creates all legal assumptions that, as of 01.01.2011, the Health Fund would, as a matter of fact, be separated from the State Treasury. What has to be said is that it took a time period of one year to make other all assumptions for the separation, so the Health Institute of Riznica can be realised, and these are among other proposals to amend several financial laws such as the Law on Contributions or the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, and according to this proposal today, what we believe is that so far all other sources of funding from which health protection was financed are assumed to become sources of financing of the Health Treasury, i.e. one of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute funds. In addition to that amendment, this proposal amending and supplementing the law provides for certain changes in order to balance rights in the Republic of Croatia, so let me explain in a few things. The Croatian Health Insurance Institute shall ensure payment and travel expenses for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who need to receive healthcare in a health institution more than 30 km away from the place of residence. Accordingly, in the time before us for a part of the population, especially in the areas of special state care, mountainous areas and islands, there was therefore an exception where the 30km limit was not calculated but was practically zero km. It should be noted that when the provision was introduced into the law at a time when most of these areas were affected and war destruction, when it could not be done in a quality way or organised by a health care service and there was a great need for mobilization, i.e. to seek health services outside of the residence. Since in the past 10 years there has been an increase and quality of health care in these areas and the availability of medical services, we believe that such an exemption would have been granted, all conditions have been met, to be abolished. Which means the translation still leaves an exception for people who go on dialysis, like this folkly, so they still have covered travel expenses. They still have covered the travel expenses of voluntary blood donors, organ donors. They continue to have the right to compensation for travel costs, and what this amendment now refers to is practically the part, so as I specifically stated, and these are persons residing in the field of special state care, in the mountain and mountainous areas and in the islands, because what our quality of health care has shown in these areas is neither good nor poor than the quality of health care in all other areas. In order to show this a little more graphic, then in the case of these announcements of the area where, for example, in the Sibenik-Knin County, someone from Tisni traveled to Sibenik, it was then accepted that it was a special area and Praci had the right to travel expenses. On the other hand, when he traveled from Primosten to Sibenik, he did not exercise that right under existing provisions. What should be pointed out in particular is that this does not undermine the possibility of health care, since sanitary transport and any other provisions that remain in place to provide health care remain in force. This is about an exemption for travel expenses. We prayed for the urgency of the procedure so that, in accordance with the conclusions of this Assembly, these two provisions, in particular the first which was the subject of the Croatian Parliament's conclusion, could come into force and to obtain the conditions for the withdrawal of the health fund from the Treasury. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44743	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There's a club debate first. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Nedjeljko Strikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44744	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here is another law that contributes to further implementation of health reform in the Republic of Croatia, which began almost a year ago. In this law amending the Mandatory Health Insurance Act with the Final Proposal of the Law, we define the time of exit of HZZO at this time of the single insurance company from the State Treasury. We also bring a few amendments to the right to health care, as the Secretary of State said. But this bill defines, or confirms, sources of funding or income of compulsory health insurance. Thus, the most important source of funding for the Institute remains the contribution of insurance companies, employers' contributions, contributions to the unemployed, contributions from other taxpayers' paid contributions set out in these and other legal acts. Special contribution to the use of health care abroad, revenues from the state budget that have not been paid to the HZZ, which will be paid to the Treasury, then revenues from supplementary health insurance. In fact, additional health insurance was used by very few citizens by the start of the reform in the Republic of Croatia until the start of the reform, and to point out that in the Republic of Slovenia 92% of citizens use additional health insurance and trend in this year in the Republic of Croatia is significantly better. Then it is important to point out that 32% of the total opportunity from the special tax on tobacco products will go to the office. At this point, it's HZO. And there's still the income of compulsory insurance and auto responsibility. I will look only at two sources of income from my debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, which is the income from tobacco taxes of 32% of total income. In many cases, it is pointed out in this House to the extent that the total cost of treating patients who have been affected by the harmful effects of tobacco products. Here we primarily think about cardiovascular diseases, malignancies, lung cancer and bronch. So the assessment of the Ministry of Health total treatment of such patients in one year almost costs 3 billion kuna. And that is why it is very important that this part of the revenue from tobacco products that will be received and to be allocated to the budget of the Republic of Croatia from the Treasury, i.e. to the special account of the Institute. A further very important item is 7%, which is separated from insurance against car responsibility, because we are witnessing that as Marić talked about banks today, so the insurance companies from the car accident, the majority who were open and who in the private sector became very, very wealthy owners, and the treatment of patients who died in car accidents were burdened by the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. And now these 7% that are to be paid and that's precisely said they have to be paid by the 10th of the month for every last month. And here it is important to note that this final bill and determines the time when the Institute receives a special account, that is 180 days from the date of the law's entry into force, and also that with 1. 1. In 2011, it's definitely coming out of the treasury. When I mentioned at the beginning that this is a further step in implementing health reform, I must say here about the current course of reform that is an integral part and this final law that we are adopting today. In fact, in the year of the reform, I must really express my satisfaction with the effects of the reform on the entire health system, and thus to improve our citizens' health services. I am not saying this as an observer of the reform, but as an active participant who has felt on the ground for ten years now, I have been participating in the creation of a hospital system in Karlovac County and here clearly and unequivocally, objectively and realistically, on the basis of indicators, I can say that the Croatian hospital system since the 1990s has never been more stable both financially and also humanely. And I'll back that up with a few facts. In the first row when I said financial debts to hospitals, we know that up to a year and a half ago all hospitals in the Republic of Croatia generated a debt of nearly 200 million kuna per month. Now at this point or for a year and a half, the exception is hospitals in the Republic of Croatia that have increased their debts. And by 31. 12. I am convinced and recently at a meeting of the Association of Employers in Health who confirmed it, very few hospitals will be with negative business in the current year. It means that hospital incomes and expenditures are balanced, and there has been no reduction in public health protection, which is very important. I would also mention waiting lists, central ordering, informing the hospital system that is going really and that in 6 months with the information of primary healthcare we will also have the information of the hospital system in a high degree. The entry of new healthcare professionals into the system, so these days I read in the media that 2,000 people are employed in health care. At the same time as the minister made a guideline on further non-employment, not health workers and all who work in the system, we interpreted it as such, except for those who are malicious. And I'll tell you about my hospital, never at my hospital has a doctor worked more than now. And so it is in most Croatian hospitals. And so the data that is trying to place these days on the ban on the employment of health care professionals is really not accurate and malicious. Of course, it should be noted here that, as part of the increase in standards in the Republic of Croatia's health standard, I must tell you the reform of emergency medical assistance, here is the debate that was from parliamentary representatives, and all were invited to the Academy of Science and Arts which received a positive assessment and with this reform will come two years from now the rule of the golden standard of one now within which all the injured must be transported to the hospital to satisfy the Republic of Croatia. These are the positive shifts in health reform, which is an integral part of this law. And finally, I'm going to say something that the Secretary of State has said, an amendment to Article 49 which speaks of the right of the insurance company to pay for the costs of transport if it is directed outside the place of residence to use healthcare. Namely, the insured person has the right to health care outside the place of residence and to pay the costs of transport, if the distance of another health institution is more than 30 km away. But here is something else very important to note that, again I will say, people working on the ground are health professionals, and with them also live our residents and patients, that this regulation introduces a lot of order to go to other cities, to other places, to self-initiative treatment. In the Republic of Croatia, everyone is allowed to be treated wherever anyone wants to, but the health system has developed such a network of health institutions that enables health care throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And if someone asks for a favor they can't be provided in one city, if it's a small town, then they'll be sent by his doctor to the nearest health care facility, the same quality that can provide a health care service. And for that part they'll get travel expenses if the distance is more than 30 km away. But the sooner it happened to us, that the patient came to the doctor and told me I want to go to Dubrava, I want to go to Sibenik, I want to go to Zadar and Karlovac and it's all HZZO paid. This regulation really introduces the order that even the higher rank of health care institutions is decided by the one who is an expert, and that is the doctor. And that's why the HDZ club will absolutely support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44745	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44746	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I will say that the representatives of the HNS Club will reject the bill, and that is why I will explain why. According to my deep conviction and conviction of all MPs in the HNS club, this bill is an additional poverty for our citizens, or for a large part of our citizens. In fact, in the year when we expect 50,000 unemployed people by the end of this year, so this spiral of unemployment is speeding up, we think our nation's health will be worsened. So these people are gonna lose their pay and no financial income. For many, then, tomorrow comes with fewer financial resources and more illnesses. In such a situation, the Government shall propose a law which, in its 1st article, proposes to delete paragraph 4 in Article 49 of the applicable law, which has provided the island's inhabitants, mountainous areas and areas of special state care with compensation for the costs of transport in the event of the use of health care outside the place of residence or residence. Is it time to deny these people their rights so far? I don't think it's not that it's not about saving 16.5 million kuna, which is the result of this eradication of rights, an item that should have and had to be found in some other areas, not by abolishing the rights mentioned in today's times of crisis and unemployment. In my opinion, if we want to be socially sensitive, the country needs to introduce the material status of the insurance company as the only criterion that will say whether or not the insurance company can or cannot use the right to compensate for the costs of transport. Here, I am not going to talk about this short bill anymore because we heard it in the opening statement of Mr. Secretary, but I would refer to Article 3(3) that says: "the rates of contributions for compulsory health insurance, and according to the Bureau, are determined in a way that the expected revenues from contributions and other revenues are covered by the expected expenditure." I'm asking Mr. Secretary of State to explain this item to us. I'm asking if that means introducing swimming rates? If so, for which contributions will they be introduced, who will propose them and who will bring them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44747	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Then it is up to the honourable representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44748	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I will first ask myself why it is necessary to amend and supplement the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. In fact, on 15 December 2008, the Croatian Parliament tasked the Government with creating legal assumptions within one year for the implementation of the financial operations of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance and System of the State Treasury and Budget. And as has been said, that provision would enter into force on 1 January 2011. The Committee on Health and Social Care warned that for the functioning of such a separate law, it is necessary to amend a number of other legal regulations establishing the basis and rates, the method of accounting and payment deadlines, and accounting bonds and paid contributions for compulsory health insurance. It is also important to identify who is a contributor to the collection of contributions and what are important procedures for ensuring the collection of contributions, given that the reform of the health system and the rationalisation carried out cannot fully compensate for the increase in health costs and the expected drop in contributions and revenues of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. It is also noted that the possible loss of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute is compensated from the state budget, as it is the founder of the Republic of Croatia's Institute. The right to compensation for transport costs regardless of the distance between the place of the contracted health institution has a insured person, meaning first to 18 years of life, another person referred to abroad according to the general act of the institution, third-insured person organ donor, tissue or cells and fourth, the insured person using haemodialysis as a chronic kidney patient. So far, as we have heard, there have been exceptions, i.e. that, independently of the distance from the right to compensation for the costs of transport, the insured person with residence, i.e. on the island and the Law on areas of special state care, is established. This law abolishes these privileges with reason. Namely, these exceptions were introduced as counterpart Strikic said during and after the Homeland War when it was not possible to exercise the right to health care in these areas. As a result of more balanced regional development, it is now possible to achieve the scope and quality of health care as well as in other areas. But in the end, I have to point out one very important thing that has been highlighted by the Health Committee. It has been warned that transport costs are returned through the social care system in certain areas where the distance of a health institution is less than 30 km from the place of residence for those insurance companies of poorer material status. The Croatian Democratic Union will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44749	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44750	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, already, counterpart Kundic said that last year, at this time on December 15th, we reached a conclusion that the government was obliged to create legal assumptions within one year so that the financial operations of the Health Insurance Office would be separated from the system of the state treasury, i.e. the budget. The purpose of these changes is to create a basis for achieving savings with the basis of the elimination of the exception, and the savings move around 16 and a half million kuna. I didn't decide to correct an incorrect quote to a colleague who spoke on behalf of the HNS club. However, this proposal should be made clear in a loud way by the law which removes the exception governing that persons with residence, i.e. on the islands, mountain and mountainous areas and areas of special state care under the same conditions, exercise the right to compensation for transport costs as well as other insured persons. The right to compensation for transport costs and these insured persons achieve health care and are actually used by a contract health institution in the case of a contract doctor private practice or delivery service in a place that is more than 30 km away from the place of residence or residence because the same service is not able to reach somewhere near its place of residence. The Secretary of State made it clear to us, so here it is not burned once again that the provision that ensures this right independently of the said distance remains for children, i.e. persons up to the age of 18, provided to persons referred to abroad or by the acts of the institution. Then, organ, tissue or cell donors and subjects using haemodialysis as chronic renal patients. It is expected that expenditure will be covered by contributions rates for compulsory health insurance, and in particular it is arranged that the amount of 32% of the total revenue from the tax on tobacco processing is determined from the state budget at the expense of the institution, as is the obligation of the insurance companies to make the funds of 7% of the paid functional premium of insurance from compulsory health insurance or from car responsibility. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on officials and temporary staff of the Commission in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. The final proposal for this law is another contribution to the quality reform of the health system, so I will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44751	Thank you. It is next to the honourable representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44752	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I come from the Primorje-Gorski County and those who know what life looks like on certain remote islands know that what we're discussing today doesn't hold water. In order for someone from the island of the Union or not to know Suska to get to the river he must travel practically all day, believe all day long. First he takes the boat to Losinj, then he takes the bus, then he takes the ferry, and then he takes the bus. Therefore, he also needs to sleep in Rijeka, let alone the cost of travel. I stood up for my islanders and spoke to the minister six months ago, and I warned him of one illogicality. I warned him to say from the island of Cres, Cres, when parents take their child pediatrician to Losinj or when a woman goes to the gynecologist in Losinj, it's about 50 and a few kilometers, it's about services. What kind? Primary practices. No one writes instructions, and of course the minister suits me. When I seek protection for these people, he tells me that in a specific case, there is no legal basis for the recognition of the right to compensation for the costs of transport and no travel order can be issued for that purpose. Therefore, and now there has been illogicalness, and now there have been extremely harmful decisions on the burden of our islanders, and therefore I must admit that we cannot agree with this new proposal. My colleagues and colleagues, we have heard that today's basic argument is why we are going in this direction because the situation on the islands has been significantly improved with regard to the provision of health services. If that's the case, then there won't be any need to travel to the river or anywhere else. But it's not like that. There is still a strong need to go to other centers and get these poor people who travel all day long to get a specialist examination. It's about saving. I am always for rationalization, always. But 16 million kuna savings, and in 10 minutes we'll be discussing a series of laws regarding our missions, military missions around the world. For them, we stand out 333 million kunas this year. We plan to increase that amount to 470 million kuna in two years, to increase by 12 to 490 million kuna, and this is about the question of the life and death of our citizens, and we are saving and trying to save some 16 million kuna. It's not some kind of money, it's big money. But when I compare it to other items where we can really save, where the world will certainly understand that we don't have to compete with big states about the number of soldiers, about the costs, about everything else. There we must try to save, and try to give citizens optimal treatment opportunities. This is certainly not an optimal solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44753	And we have another one for an individual debate. Dear Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44754	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would join all those colleagues who warned about the illogicality of such a solution, as far as the patients traveling from the island are going to the places where they should use health services, and were de facto put in the same situation, in the same plane as those on land. I think it is entirely contrary to the laws of common sense and physics to equalise distances on land, with distances from the island, or sea high and higher travel costs and higher travel and everything else. Because it's very simple, 11 miles from Split to Supetar to travel within an hour by ferry, and by car, it's about 60, 70 or 80 kilometers. So I think it's a much fairer solution, Mr. Secretary of State listed, for example, the place of Tisno, but Tisno is connected by a bridge to the mainland. Thus, he cannot be considered an island place in this sense. So it's completely against the laws of physics, the laws of common sense that account for miles, travel from island to land by looking at the airline. And I suggest, Mr. Secretary of State, that this part should simply be deleted from the law or that all the island places in which travel expenses would therefore be realised, because there are not many and there are not many inhabitants either. Also an argument which was that many things for islanders were already secured on the island, that is exactly the opposite of what you said about saving, because if then even fewer people will travel, so it is also saved at travel costs. Therefore, I ask that this provision of places on the island which are not crossed, and then Tisno would not enter this group you delete from the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44755	We have one replica. Thank you. And this is Honorable Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44756	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bauk, I thank you for your discussion and you reminded me of something I think you should add to what you just said. In fact, we are also discussing and always relying on some EU rules, and the need not to subsidise this, that, etc. However, in the European Union there are so-called peripheral areas or areas where citizens live in extreme conditions. The European Union knows and recognises such areas, and our islands are such areas. So here we have even said behind us and European legislation and the possibility of helping such residents, these areas indeed. And instead of using that, instead of looking at tomorrow at the end of the European Union to help us in all these items and to keep our islanders there and so forth, we basically cut a branch here that would actually make tomorrow a better life, a better life. So I thank you for that, and you reminded me that we could now be called on, and I call on European legislation, European tradition, etc., to residents of peripheral areas, areas they call normally not known areas where citizens live in extreme conditions, they certainly deserve such help.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44757	I just want to say that I let you talk about what's really very important, especially for that part of the people on the island. But according to our Rules of Procedure, it's not a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44758	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll try to be within the Rules of Procedure. So once again I'm going to repeat, not add, that putting the island in the category of travel costs, equating them with the mainland is completely unfair. Namely, I will take an example of the town of Trogir where part of the town of Trogir island of Ciovo, which, by current law, would have the right to travel expenses, is unnecessary. Ciovo has a bridge, and it's absolutely on the same level as on land. But let's say Woodchuck, where... Goes twice a week, or Solta where the ferry goes three times a day that are closer to Split, so somewhere around 10km of air line, are in a much harder situation than someone who is 45km of land from Split, and it is much easier to come to Split than people from Solta and Drvenik. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it absolutely takes this solution as it is now, so don't put the islands in a sixth to look away on the air line. That's totally unfair. And once again, I ask the Secretary of State to get it out of this law and let the minister then prescribe what places on the islands are entitled to travel expenses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44759	Thank you. On behalf of the Government, Proposer, Honorable Ante Zvonimir Golem, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44760	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I am thanking you for your discussion, so obviously there might have been some awkwardness in presenting or perhaps not understanding, so I'm going to explain a little bit, and by doing so, I'm going to give some answers to some of the questions. Maybe I should just say the question of whether it's swimming or non-swimming contributions. We should say in a clear voice that this law has laid the groundwork, that the contributions will be settled by the Law on Contributions, regardless of what the income of this is, and that we have made it clear and loud that we must be aware that when the Treasury is created, therefore health care when it is created, when this health fund is created that it will also have to have balanced incomes and expenditures and that is why we listed it here, because otherwise we all know what is going to happen. Whether it will be re-promised that one day because of certain problems, the fund will return to the treasury or not to the treasury as it has already been. The other thing I'd like to say is next. So there are several examples listed here, I might try to prove it a little more graphic, maybe even colleagues, if I did, I apologize if we didn't understand each other, Mr. Agent said maybe the wrong information. So no, it's not about the sixth grader, I'm here when we talked a little while ago, so maybe I misrepresented something, so that's what it's about. It still stands absolutely 30 kilometers straight. What would that mean in practice? This would mean in practice the first most of the islands are already covered by that right. First of all, the people of Hvar are covered by this law, because we don't measure exactly 30 kilometers, we don't measure from shore to shore. So when a man outside of his place, even a certain one, if perhaps in such a picturesque way, I can't speak in my mind now, because I haven't done that measure, whether it's Brač, but don't worry. That doctors of the primary who direct people know exactly what the distance is. The third thing to say, here is Mr. Doric himself, the representative said that Lošinj, Cres, is that it is 50 kilometers away. If this particular correctness he has pointed to is resolved, it means they do not fall under these exceptions. The answer to Susak is the same. Now I've tried a quick GPS measurement, it's over 30 kilometers again. And so what we want to say is on our side, so it wasn't when it came to the island, so we can say today whether the island of Ciovo or the island of Ciovo isn't... So the boat drives to Trogir, then from Trogir to Split. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll tell you it seems to me that 20 and a few kilometers of Trogir-Split. That even when you add this up, it's going back over 30 kilometers. And on the other hand, what should be said and should be clear there, so these rights may have been wrongly placed because no one can convince me that in Croatia, for example, there are no ones in Bedekovina who would need these rights to achieve their health care in Krapina or in a hospital in Zabok. Also, no one can convince me that, say, in Hrženica or Hrastovljan, no one has the right to do so, and those exceptions were not. These are the places, I'll tell you, these are the places in the radius if we're going to say either road 10, 12, 15 km, and these other ones are from Varazdin or over the Drava Bridge from Čakovec these are again away from Krapina. So what we want to say is, in part, that we for our insurance companies, for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that we provide when it comes because it says life and death of citizens is a little difficult because we provide other than emergency medical care, we also provide sanitary transportation for those who need it and pay for it. And also when it's over 30 km where we put the border, we provide travel orders, and what we did here in this proposal, so we went, if we're going to set it up that way to equalize it to rights that are equal because I believe here we only took away some of the clean ones that are close to us, so we're going to say that someone from Klana to Rijeka from 27 km has the right, from Lovran to Rijeka has no right, from Tenja to Osijek 8 km has the right, from Bizovac to Osijek 20 km has no right or, let's say from Perusic to Gospić 10 km has the right, and from St. The cross of Brdoveski to Zapresic has no right. We therefore believe that in this part, at least as far as the health system is concerned, in this way all Croatian citizens will exercise equal rights, and in no way will even their rights on the islands be abolished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44761	Thank you. We have a correction to the quote, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44762	I would only correct the quote in the last sentence, so all citizens will exercise equal rights. This allegation is not true solely because I believe that you cannot compare the distance of the sea with land distances and even them. That's not fair, and I'm not getting into it, so whether some areas on land had to be excluded or not, you mentioned 8 or 20 km. That's what I support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44763	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met. Now he would suggest that, or he would make a brief plan and deal about how much we will do today and how much we will do. So we're going to work with point nine, with point five working separately, point six means separate, and points 7, 8 and 9, we're going to unite, and that would end with point nine today. Does anyone object to unifying points 7, 8 and 9, since it is content, or not entirely in content, but ultimately making decisions on the same points? Does anyone mind? There isn't. We made a deal and let's do it like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44764	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligatory Health Insurance. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 481. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This bill was adopted by most votes, 101 votes for, 6 abstentions and 3 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44765	So we move to point 5. - Final proposal of the Law confirming the legal position of missions and representatives of third countries in the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 480. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Defence Committee. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Željko Gorsic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44766	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, the distinguished Madam Representatives and gentlemen of the Parliament. I welcome you all very much. This is after becoming a full NATO member on April 1st 2009 of the Republic of Croatia is expected to become a party to a number of international contracts that constitute a legal gain of NATO. In addition to the agreed North Atlantic Treaty, the agreement between the parties to the North Atlantic Treaty on the legal position of their forces and the Protocol on the legal position of international military commands established on the basis of the North Atlantic Treaty in order to become a party agreement in the legal position of missions and representatives of third countries in the organisation of a North Atlantic Treaty which is of paramount importance both for the operation of NATO and for the operation of the member states of the Republic of Croatia as a new NATO Member State does not require prior approval of the North Atlantic Council. As a new NATO member, the Republic of Croatia has expressed its consent and is therefore bound by the signing of a ratification document. By confirming the Agreement on the Legal Position of Missions and Representatives of third countries in the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty, the Republic of Croatia will fulfil the internal legal conditions for the application of the provisions of the Agreement governing the legal position of missions and representatives of third countries in the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty. The Agreement shall regulate the immunities and privileges which, in the territory of which the North Atlantic Treaty organisation has its commands, enjoy the missions of third countries and members of their staff and the immunities and privileges enjoyed by representatives of third countries on temporary missions. The implementation of this law does not require any additional insurance of financial resources but is ensured through the regular activities of the Ministry of Defence and the funds from the state budget intended for the work of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces will be used. For now, Mr. President, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44767	Thank you very much, Vice President. Please don't let it be after the trouble. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Stanko Grcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44768	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, esteemed secretaries of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of our debate, we would like to say that by adopting the proposed law, i.e. by confirming the agreement in question, the Republic of Croatia as a full member of NATO will create another one in a series of frameworks for implementing the standardised legal gains of NATO. In this way, it will create a legal framework for interoperability to the defence ministries and forces of other NATO member states in areas governed by the agreement. Here we will try and explain the reasons why we support the texts in question. The Republic of Croatia as a full NATO member by confirming the previous and this agreement proves that it is becoming an important partner on the international agenda. In this way, the same rules apply formally to the position of missions and representatives of NATO third countries in the territory of the Republic of Croatia or members of the Republic of Croatia in the territory of the NATO Member States. The text of the agreement in question, which has been applied to NATO Member States since 1994, is without the imposition of interest and will and some of the parties, and we consider it a formal legal framework for cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and other NATO Member States on the basis of which the interests and other issues provided for in this Agreement will develop and coordinate. We also hope that a new set of documents, such as the concept of supporting the Republic of Croatia to partner countries, the supply of infrastructure facilities to the armed forces of other countries in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the catalogue of capabilities for the Republic of Croatia, and others stemming from commitments made under international defence organisations to which the Republic of Croatia has joined or access on the basis of international contracts, will contribute greatly to facilitating the implementation of the obligations of the competent authorities from the Republic of Croatia. In doing so, we believe that the representatives of the Government, including the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces, and other competent authorities, will create all the assumptions that the documents mentioned in accordance with the provisions of the Defence Act will be mentioned and we can pass. The Croatian Peasant Party Club will support the bill from all above. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44769	Thank you. It is the turn of the HNS club, the distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44770	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Very short. The Croatian People's Party Club will, of course, support this proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on the Legal Position of Missions and Representatives of third countries in the organization of the North Atlantic Treaty and may only say because of those who listen and follow us. As in the process of approaching the European Union, we had to harmonize and comply with the acquis of the European Union, in this case we are now doing a similar process, and when it comes to NATO, we first had to satisfy certain political and military technical characteristics, and then we are now clearly in a position to align ourselves with NATO's acquis. This is one of those documents that we're ratifying here today. I believe there will be no difficulty. It is a common form for those countries that have signed a partnership for peace to practically share the same status, i.e. the same rights when they participate in meetings and various other agreements within NATO. Since this is an urgent process, it means first and second reading, then perhaps we could take advantage of this opportunity because from the first reading we have the right to discuss in principle something broader on the subject itself. I hope that's why the vice president will only allow me one question. In fact, here we are probably particularly interested in Macedonia's position, which has signed a partnership for peace, which unfortunately has been obstructed by Greece, only because of its name. Not for military-technical, political and other reasons. I would like to know, too, how does the Croatian representation, or the Croatian mission, relate to this problem? Do we actively advocate that this Greek blockade actually rises, to break, because it is absolutely pointless. Because we were in a similar situation regarding a number of objections from international institutions in Croatia. Some were justified, but unfortunately a large part completely unwarranted. Here these days we see the victims of a particular policy, I would say in relation to our country regarding the fact that some countries do not want to lift the blockade regarding some chapters in negotiations with the European Union. I think we need to be extremely objective. We are now a full member, now we have the right to vote, now we have the right to speak very clearly and very openly about the difficulties that NATO also has, which should not be. This is why I would like to ask the government's representatives to say a few words to us on this subject, given that this is all very expensive in the broader context of what we are discussing today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44771	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44772	We are moving on to the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement on the Legal Position of Missions and Representatives of third countries in the Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 480. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement on the Legal Position of Missions and Representatives of third countries in the Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most votes, 110 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 1 against the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44773	We're moving on to point six. - Finalizes the draft law amending and supplementing the Defence Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 482 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Zeljko Gorsic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44774	Thank you very much, Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This law allows for the modification of the structure of the defence administration and the defence office. And I must say at the very beginning that the existing system of office and defence management there is a meaning in force since 1993 when this Assembly of Croatia also divided into counties and when each county was set up by the Defence Administration, and in every major city there was an office for defence and in those 1990s, the wartime offices and administrations had the primary task of organising the call of military officials, to serve in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. That means mobilizing security to complete the Armed Forces unit. After a decision by the Croatian Parliament on non-inviting recruits to serve the military term since 2008 and by introducing voluntary military service, it has been reduced by the size of management and defence offices, I would say, also by abolishing the B-type reserve. These are all those reserve units that have, in time, ensured the safety, stability and therefore the freedom of the Republic of Croatia. Today they are simple, their structure was shut down when Croatia went from individual defence to collective defence, and so the abovementioned defence offices are doing enrolment or only introducing the recruits' military records, while for those who do not go on voluntary service of the military deadline, and they are registered, no recruitment and inspections have been carried out, so health checks that were done only when we had the obligation to serve the military deadline. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families adopted by this House in October 2009 also reduced the jobs of the Defence Administration which are responsible for recognising the status of Croatian defenders. The entry into force of that law means procedures which have not been terminated by the rightful solutions are suspended and are not implemented until the end. The proposed provisions of the law allow the removal of therefore management and defence offices and the establishment of new construction units of the Ministry of Defence which would be the district departments, i.e. the defence departments. Their names, structure and part-time work, as well as the number of seats and areas in which they will act as special design units will be prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Interior Design Regulation of the Ministry of Defence. So let me just say that an existing organization with 134 structural units is down to 33. The establishment of a new organisational structure will lead to a more rational use of human and material resources and will result in a considerable savings of financial resources. The reduction in the number, i.e. the abolition of individual administrations and defence offices, will result in a reduction in the number of civil servants required. The selection and retention of more professional staff will achieve a more high-quality fill-up of smaller construction units, while the rest of the staff will be deployed according to professional conditions in the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces, local administration and self-government, through state agencies, such as the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and other ministries through the Ministry of Administration with which we are daily in contact and with whom we are working, so we are talking and agreeing on the schedule of 150 employees who will be extra in this part of the office and administration. Also, others who will not be able to be taken care of through these measures will be provided through the exercise of the right to severance planned by the Ministry of Defence in the state budget for this purpose. Also, closing the facilities used for the needs of management and defence offices at 85 locations and retaining only more high-quality existing infrastructures will significantly reduce existing material expenditure, since we are in most of the space in rent and therefore not ours. Here, this would be a brief explanation of these amendments and the addition of the law. We also accept the amendment of the Legislative Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44775	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Oh, yeah. So, the Defense Committee, the Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44776	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's in the absence of the president and vice president of the board. So, at the 27th session of December 2009, the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the final draft law amending the Law on Defence, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 25 November 2009. On the basis of Article 64a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee discussed the act in question as a parent working body. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European The Defence Act, the Committee also held the previous opinion of the President of the Republic and the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, on the final draft law. The applicant’s representative in the opening statement stated that the aim of the proposed amendments to the laws is to enable the establishment of a simpler structure of the defence system and the achievement of organisational assumptions for the efficient, standardised and rational performance of operations and tasks carried out by defence administrations and offices. The proposed provisions allow the removal of administrations and defence offices and the establishment of new internal design units from the Ministry of Defence. He further noted that the existing organisational structure with a total of 134 has been reduced to 33 organisational units. The current 20 defence administrations, 78 offices and 36 departments are planning to be refurbished into 4 defence departments: Osijek, Zagreb, Rijeka and Split, and defence departments located in the county centres. He stressed that the creation of a new organisational structure would lead to a more rational use of resources and savings of financial resources, and would result in a reduction in the number of civil servants. Representatives of military and state service workers' unions have stated that this amendment to the law would leave around 150 employees without a job and mainly an employee who is over 25 years of service and who are members of the Homeland War and indicated that a significant reduction in the salaries of officials would take place as a result of the new organisational structure, and that the proposed amendment of the law should wait at least another year. Some committee members asked, and the proposing representative answered the question, which all measures were planned to take care of surplus officials and how much funding was planned for the same. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Amendments to the Defence Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44777	Thank you. Stay here at the pay phone, Your Honor. I'm opening a debate. And the first is the SDP club, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44778	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So the SDP club supports these amendments to the Defence Act. So we believe that this is another step in a series of steps that have been taken in reforming the defence system. Let's remind ourselves, the Department of Defense has also singled out the Intelligence Centres at the State Department for Protection and Rescue. Then, the former Service of Management at the Plekler institution, then there was also talk about the separation of the Air and Technical Service. And of course the rest is still, as the secretary of state said, there were other defense administrations and offices in the structure dating back to the '90s, and he specifically told the board that this was being discussed for 12 years and that he was trying to find the right solution. Since these few years have changed and reduced office and defence administration jobs, the need for such structures has, of course, ceased to exist and for such a number of employees. In the current systematization within the Ministry of Defence, in the Department of Defence, so that would be around somewhere, more than 600 have jobs in the systemization. Now about 400 employees are employed, and approximately a little more than 100 people are accounted for, that is already a surplus. And our estimate is that this number can be even higher. He's perfectly comprehensible and the unions, so I think they're doing their job by pointing to possible problems that will come about. However, the very fact that this reconstruction of this part of the Ministry of Defence has long been delayed. So we're not going to contribute, because we think it's time for this job to start and, of course, taking care of the people who are employed by the care program, so let's make it possible for people to continue working normally. So, let this job be done. It is absolutely certain, therefore, that these legal provisions will allow the Government of the Republic of Croatia, therefore by adopting a regulation on the internal organisation, amendment or addition of the regulation, will allow it to control the process, so that it can also prescribe a new structure, therefore new departments. Then, new county departments, or as already defined, and to prescribe, within the framework of the Regulation, how many employees with which expert equipment and jobs they will carry out. So, holding that this is another step in reforming the defence system that it will indeed contribute to the rationalisation of funds, the rationalisation of space and, of course, further reduction of the number of employees. The SDP club will support these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44779	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44780	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, the esteemed secretary of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Peasant Party welcomes the proposing's intensification to achieve some rationalisation in times of crisis, thus saving in the state budget, which is for every praise. However, some questions are being raised that we would like to hear the answers to. Some of us have already received answers at the meetings of our Defence Committee, as well as in the opening statement of the Secretary of State. We are aware that the existing system of administration and office should be changed or rationalised, but we are not sure whether the proposed structure will allow quality and practical availability of defence affairs, especially those for the needs of Croatian defenders and members of their family, given the distance or wider territory, or areas which now cover. Let us not forget that in rural areas, we have only one or two buses or one train to the county centers, and the same situation is connected to the islanders. Citizens from a town 30 and up to 90 km of county centre need instead of half a day now will probably lose more, perhaps all day long to get to the county center, do the job and return home. We remind that many citizens in rural areas live on the social edge and find it difficult to go to the city headquarters, or county centres, to carry out certain tasks related to institutions that we call public service of citizens. We therefore fear that citizens in rural areas will come or that they will be in a more unfavourable position. What jobs since the 1990s have so far been in the jurisdiction of the administration and the Defence Office in the past period, which they are currently doing and which they will do in the future. In doing so, we are referring to the responsibility of citizens in defence of the military obligation, labour obligation, material obligation, the obligation to serve in civil protection, the obligation to provide professional assistance and to coordinate civil and civil-military defence preparations at the level of the county and the city of Zagreb. Voluntary military service, especially issues with the demands of Croatian defenders and other citizens in rural areas, related to the achievement of various rights through personal or family needs. After the Homeland War over the past period, whether certain measures have already been implemented within the administration and office to rationalise, and we think first of all about the transition of 500 employees from former observation and intelligence centres to a state centre within the State Administration for Protection and Rescue. What slow-down solutions to management and the Defence Office, i.e. organisational units dealing with the same or similar problems exist in neighbouring NATO and EU countries or others with which Croatia is comparable. According to the information available, including official internet addresses, it is evident that countries have fewer than the Republic of Croatia at the level of the Defence Administration County, for example Slovenia, which for several years has been unadjusted in NATO membership. Could the reorganisation be delayed for that? How are we going to solve the matter of extra employees with a care program? We heard something today that was planned through certain agencies. We hope that this intention will also succeed, and whether the introduction of weekly office days at the current headquarters of the Defence Office will be considered for the majority of former municipalities that have sometimes covered 50,000 residents. Finally, for the sake of the security aspect, we would like to ask whether it is too early to close the office administration, i.e. the proposed rationalisation in the future with our neighbours, and also at the level of the region, there are still a number of unresolved issues. The HSS Club advocates the care of all employees, and in particular we believe that our citizens should not be in a more unfavourable position especially in rural areas when they exercise personal, or certain family rights. Since we have already heard some answers to the questions raised here, the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44781	Thank you. It is up to the HDZ club, distinguished representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44782	Thank you very much, Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. Well, here, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this proposal to amend the Law on Defence, given that the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is defined as wishing to make it possible for the Ministry of Defence and the Law on Defence, that we want them to look at the structural units that will lead to the care and care of the territorial structure and the formation of those new construction units to be able to adapt to the organisation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, which will be in support of the implementation of the missions and tasks ahead of us. In view of the reduction in the size of the defence ministry's operations and the main headquarters, given the reduced number and manuals, as well as the active military personnel, as well as the need for a smaller number of administrative procedures to be carried out. I think that rationalisation in this sector is really necessary and necessary, therefore, also such proposals that are legal in front of us and in an emergency procedure, will certainly rationalise and effectively use the most professional fit in these administrations and offices that have actually been without, in the good part without real work, given the reduction in both the entire Ministry of Defence, what was at wartime. We also know that the National Defence Secretariats have grown into defense administrations and offices and are defined by... Units. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now there will be no significant reductions, since each county will have its own defence department located in the county centre and will be four that will operate regionally, namely Osijek, Zagreb, Rijeka and Split. We hope that the savings will be maximum in this part, in today's time of rationalisation and crisis, in all segments, but we are also convinced that these extra employees who will end up with severances or re-uses in some other segments of the ministry of one, the other, the third or fifth in the state administration will certainly be able to find enough jobs for these people at a shorter age with a large number of years of employment to experience their fair pension. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of this law and believes it will rationalise, operate and manage management and defence more effectively at all levels of counties and state level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44783	Thank you. And on behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44784	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will certainly support these amendments to the Defence Act. We were one of the parties who had insisted for many years on abolishing the military service obligation, we were for a professional army, we were for approaching NATO standards, and for savings that can be clearly ensured through this. What we are doing today is just continuing this process of rationalization and normally that when more of our military service obligations, there is no clear obligation to call military debtors, keeping records of them, reserve units, etc., etc. So it's not a question of yes or no, the question is why is it so slow. So exactly the opposite of what HSS colleagues asked if it could possibly be delayed part of the process was their question. We don't think there's any reason for that. We believe that it should be entered, because every day it is clearly obtained at quality, the savings are absolutely visible from what the secretary of state has shown us. What maybe we should have gotten in the opening statement, and we didn't get it, is maybe what we expect from the new structure, which will be the new tasks, and the new structures you're preparing, related to the promotion of military occupations, the education of military clear faces, their engagement in professional composition, etc. Therefore, that part is likely interested in all parliamentary representatives, and certainly our citizens. Fearsome colleagues from the HSS expressed in relation to the situation of the rural population, I think it may also be, not standing for reasons because here it refers only clearly to the administration and defence offices. Not the other clear offices. So we don't think there's anything going on here. What's only our concern, and that's what the Secretary of State said in the introduction, is what with the extra people. We heard part of the story. What's left in my ear as something that seems a little illogical to me, that local, you said management and self-government don't exist, local administration, there's local self-government and regional self-government. Probably consume and take over some of the people. They're just management, so I don't think the state can force them to take people over. The question is only a clear attempt at talks, agreements, etc., therefore it would not want us to raise our hand today for an option that will impose on local self-government and regional self-government that they must take over excess people. We certainly shouldn't send such a message. So, here's what would be ours, our observations regarding this proposal. And we'll certainly support him. We certainly expect you to interpret pro futuro to the citizens the role of these new offices that you are predicting, that is, the structure in which it will be engaged, you will be engaged in the overall clear task of the Ministry of Defence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44785	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44786	Well, Mr. Vice President, just one correction to the incorrect assumption that it's too late to pass this law. In fact, it is timely, and it is incorrect that it is too late, given that we have now passed certain laws and the last one on the rights of Croatian defenders and the acquisition of defence status, so that administrative procedures can no longer be carried out. That's one thing. By entering the NATO alliance, by defining the number of soldiers. When we're done, now is the right time for this rationalization to take place.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44787	Thank you. And we have an individual discussion. Honorable representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44788	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Indeed, a situation that reduces the need for defence offices needs to be enjoyed in principle, since there is also a less realistic assessment of a war threat in this case. However, what should certainly be particularly highlighted here when it comes to the possible and announced abolition of certain defence offices is that it is also necessary to ensure the maximum functioning of the system, on the one hand, under such conditions. On the other hand, it announces a reduced need for staff in, after the implementation of a new reconstruction, certainly leads to a loss of jobs for a certain number of people. This has already been pointed out more than once here, so it should be pointed out, that it is relatively easy to always make such decisions, decisions on various redesigns, which can leave people out of work, but it should also be pointed out that it is certainly a large part of the war of the affected areas where otherwise the level of unemployment is far higher than in other parts of Croatia, and the possibility of finding other jobs, in this sense less. On the other hand, it is largely about employees who are former defenders who are also going to lose their jobs. It should also be noted that, of course, an absolutely welcome redistribution within the MRLs. It's certainly possible, but the question is to what extent? I believe that there are certain assumptions about how many people will be redeployed because I believe and a certain simulation and a new condition has been made, so it is necessary to know who will be people and how many practically places within the MORH to make redistributions. There are, of course, public administration offices where a number of jobs can be provided. As far as units of local and regional self-government are concerned, I think it will be quite difficult in reality because if there are certain possibilities, and there are very few, there are different, different levels of government and it is very difficult to find common language in terms of redistributing a number of employees. The most difficult part, therefore, is the severance programme, which should certainly be avoided if possible rather than solved by different redistributions within the MRLs so that people do not lose their jobs. I hope that the maximum attention has been paid to this particular model, not just by taking care of people, which may be perhaps at some point the easiest, but when it comes to human fate, then it's certainly the hardest solution. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44789	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44790	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Defence Act. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. number 482. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendment committees, and they are not voted on because they become an integral part of the final draft law, in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending the Defence Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The law was adopted unanimously with 113 votes, along with amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44791	So these are the points - Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union peace operation "EU NAVFOR SOMALIA-ATALANTA" - Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation in Afghanistan (ISAF) - Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace missions of the United Nations. We combine these three points and move with them. I'm asking the representative first not to read all three now, but I'm going to read it. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government suggested, so all of this remains the same. The defence committees and the Legislative Committees held the debate. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Here you go. Dear Zeljko Gorsic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44792	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's to each of these motions decisions, maybe sentences up to two. So, given that we're going to unite them into one point that makes sense, and we're going to do it safely without a problem. So, given that the EU Council has since 15 June 2009 announced the extension of Operation "ATALANTA" for another year, i.e. until December 2010, the Republic of Croatia plans to actively contribute to the EU's anti-piracy operation by engagement of its members on board EU member ships and at the headquarters of the operation up to 5 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to make a decision which, in the peace mission, namely Operation "EU NAVFOR SOMALIA-ATALANTA" in 2010, refers up to 5 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia with the possibility of rotation, and empowers the Government to determine the duration of rotation, number and organisational structure of members of the Armed Forces in the peace operation. Furthermore, we have a peace operation on Afghanistan. The government proposes to make a decision enabling Afghanistan (ISAF) in 2010 to also send up to 300 members of the Armed Forces with the possibility of rotation. So the most important thing for this operation is that there was no increase in the announcement, especially now that President Obama sent additional forces and urged his partners to increase their strengths. However, Croatia has decided to send up to 300 members as it was this year. And in the mission to the peace missions of the United Nations, it is only necessary to say briefly that the participation of members of the Armed Forces in all UN peacekeeping missions would be defined by a single decision of the Croatian Parliament, and so far this has not been the case but has been the case for each specific decision that members of the Armed Forces in 2010 and 2011, with the possibility of rotating the next United Nations Peace Mission. In the Central African Republic and Chad up to 3 members in Sudan up to 8 members, in Liberia up to 4 members, in the Western Sahara up to 8 members, in India and Pakistan up to 10 members, in Cyprus up to 6 members, in Lebanon up to 4 members and in Golanska Visoravan up to 100 members. As the rotation generally takes a year, it is also proposed that this decision also includes 2010 and 2011 that a new decision should not be taken for half of the term of office. That's why it's been two years. Thank you very much. That was short.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44793	Thank you. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate and we have clubs first. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44794	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. The SDP club will support all three decisions as proposed. We want to point out once again, there is another year behind us where our soldiers are on peacekeeping missions around the world, regardless of whether they are in the peace units of the European Union, the United Nations, NATO or on some other basis. And we also want, of course, to express our satisfaction that this year, I hope that I will not make a mistake in these 20 days that I will not bring any bad luck to pass, that all our soldiers are alive and well. I hope that this will be the case in all the future periods to which this decision is concerned and all the decisions we make. And that we will not be among those who will feel guilty or responsible for the possible mortal consequences of our soldiers. As far as the mission ahead of Somalia is concerned, listening to "seamen's evening" yesterday, I saw that two sailors, therefore civilians, are the winners of the Blue Belt of Vesniks for taking the initiative at sea for once to justify our soldiers being there along with other soldiers from the European Union and the rest of the world, to safeguard the safety of ships passing through that area. As for the mission at the Golan High School, which is the biggest mission of all those read by the Secretary of State of the United Nations, the decision we made last year seems to me. We support our soldiers staying there in that number. And, of course, with all the other missions in which there are fewer of our troops. The decision to send the army to peacekeeping missions outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia was also subject to constitutional changes, i.e. these proposed constitutional changes. We reiterate our view that such decisions still require the broadest consensus of political parties and that this provision remains of two-thirds of all MPs. As we can see so far, there has never been a problem when there was a political consensus to gather two-thirds of the Parliament of people who would vote for such a decision. We have never had a problem with the quorum, I hope that no matter who makes up the majority and minority in the future and that the Croatian Army will not be the subject and its participation in peacekeeping missions, will not be the subject of interparty bickering. It also places such a provision before the government and before the opposition a greater responsibility in defining the objectives that we want to achieve by sending our soldiers to peacekeeping missions. And for this reason, I would like to say once again, the SDP club will also vote for a decision to refer, i.e. to continue the peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan up to 300 soldiers, but I would not vote to increase the number of soldiers, because we do not see that Croatia needs to increase its number of troops there. In 2003, 50 members of the Croatian Armed Forces went to Afghanistan. There's 300 of them there today. When the subject of the report is, then maybe we'll say something about their continued sense of staying there. As things develop on the ground and so on, we will not discuss this at this time. So, we just want to say once again that we would not support the decision if the number of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia were increased in Afghanistan. Once again, the SDP club will vote for all three of these decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44795	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44796	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. And the Croatian People's Party club will support all the three decisions we have ahead of us, but we must certainly send some things from this booth very clearly. Namely, to participate in UN missions, NATO, the European Union, yes, but there must be some measures in this. We need to be very careful here and perhaps we should begin by commending the Ministry of Defence, which in a very correct way has always explained in all these materials each of the missions that has so far been, what is planned to be done from now on. Therefore, it is commendable. But let's take Afghanistan as an example. There are 293 members of the Croatian Army in NATO-led missions. And what falls into everyone's eyes when they read this material will be next. I'll read a sentence from the report. "The criteria for measuring the contribution of the Republic of Croatia are such that it takes 16th place out of 43 countries of the donor force." 16th place. My colleagues and colleagues, if you take into account the number of residents, if you take into account the gross social product per capita, then Croatia is not 16th among those countries, it is certainly 30th to 35th among those countries. So we give a lot more than we should do in relation to the parameters that are common when you look at it. Therefore, our negotiators in NATO must very much explain the situation in which we are at this point both economically and in any other sense. And we're still absolutely increasing our strengths, no matter what the United States is looking for. We're lucky, really lucky that most of these 293 soldiers are where? There are 216 of them in the northern part of Afghanistan along Turkmenistanska, Uzbekistanska and Tajihistan border, where the most peaceful areas are and that is great happiness. Unfortunately, however, there are also in very restless areas of Afghanistan, where in the southern, western, eastern command, and of course this is not good. We know that the situation in Afghanistan is more than difficult and you all know that Afghanistan is one big country with almost 30 million inhabitants, 12 times the size of Croatia, very hard to control, a large number of 70 ethnic groups and probably on a long line of situations there won't be the way we'd all like it to be. But we are not running away from it, and we have supported the departure of our soldiers, but we are not for that number to increase without certain criteria. As for the participation of our forces in the European Union Operation Atalanta, we absolutely support it. It's only about three of our military personnel, one in command and two in surgery. We think it's good, it'll be at the end and for them probably one area where they'll get new experiences and can apply them to our navy. It's for acceptance and we won't give any objections, except perhaps to our Ministry of Defense. When you're preparing materials like this, I don't know what they look like in NATO, but the operation command is in the UK, the state is the United Kingdom. Therefore, you should be very careful about what is thought of. If you think of the state, if you think of Great Britain as a geographical term, that's one thing, if you think of the state, then we're wrong and we have to watch out for it because we're likely to be called by someone. Finally, our missions in the United Nations. A very correct report, but we repeat, from a large number of these missions, you have listed nine here, explained the number of people, where they are and everything else, I would like to say to another colleague and colleagues at the end of this exhibition that Croatia plans for peacekeeping missions in the following year to allocate 333 million kuna. Croatia intends a year after that to increase that isolation by almost 30%, to 427 million kuna. Time of recession and severe economic crisis. That we intend to further increase that item to 472 million kuna in 2012. Is that justified? We're not too confident. We are not convinced, especially if you consider that only half an hour ago we discussed how to save 16 million kunas on the transport of sick citizens to medical centres where they will go for a specialist review. So, I really ask you, let's be extremely serious and try and see here what can be done to make such a sudden rise in separation for the purposes of these missions not come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44797	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44798	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The HDZ Club will support the proposal for a decision to participate members of the Croatian Armed Forces in the European Union peace operation, in a peacekeeping operation in NATO Afghanistan and in the UN peacekeeping mission. After the adoption of these three decisions, we have defined the upper limit of the number of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in these peace operations and it is about 455 people, we can say almost 500. It's not a small number. In any case, the number is one strong statement of the political will of the Republic of Croatia and of the Croatian state policy to participate in the development of peace, because I think we must be aware of these major and important roles that UN and NATO peacekeeping operations played in these areas in establishing '95. Years, '92. years, etc. The number is in any case a strong political message, but the number is also a significant logistical effort by the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, a significant financial effort and a requirement for a limited state budget. It is also a requirement to meet numerous families of all these people, people who go into operations, who have very often not a small safety risk, health problems, social problems etc. Perhaps a few words, many of the problems associated with these peace operations, were given some attention. However, one problem that has not been identified so far, perhaps this ad hoc, I will say quickly, and in any case I will look back at it perhaps when we talk about the report on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation in Afghanistan, this is the problem of mental health and PTSD. Some statistics, some figures show that PTSD prevalination among certain parts of the Armed Forces reaches a level of 10, 15%. This high level is not exposed to the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a peace operation in Afghanistan for a simple reason because the level of risk depends on the mandate, what your tasks are in the peace operation and where you are distributed. But out of 500 people, it is not unrealistic to estimate so harshly that mental problems and mental health problems can be faced with 10 or 15 people. Recognition of people, these people, screening these people, taking care of these people is something that requires me to say perhaps more public, political attention, because with this phenomenon among Croatian defenders we have faced, we recognize it well. It would not be good for us to find that in a few years we also find that among that population of members of the Armed Forces, these problems can be identified which can then have adverse consequences on their families, on society, etc., and that is one problem that deserves special attention in any case. I will return to that original finding again, Croatia participates in peace operations not only of the United Nations, NATO, the European Union and I think that every Croatian citizen, every responsible politician, regardless of all these risks, must be very proud of these costs, because it is also the responsibility of the state to participate in building international peace. To talk today about a peace operation in Afghanistan that's certainly a special story that comes all the way out of this box, I'd say a brief debate and a brief review of these three decisions. However, we certainly need to be aware that in these 5 hundred people, many are in significantly different conditions of life, risk, and in any case, care should be taken into account. Operation ISAF as regards the number of people, the overall engagement of the entire International Community, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, many other institutions, is something that shows the scope of what the International Community is trying to do in these areas. What makes the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia through their participation in the training of the Armed Forces of Afghanistan,... Afghan national police in the International Community are highly appreciated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As part of this issue, I certainly believe that through some decisions of the Chief Staff, certain efforts will be made to integrate these forces in certain areas, because such a dispersed force in any case requires far greater logistics and many other financial requirements. Here, I don't want to be any longer. In any case, as I said at first, the Republic of Croatia plays a significant role in building peace in today's modern world through its members in UN, European Union and NATO peace operations and I think we can and must be proud. In any case, the HDZ club will support these three decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44799	Thank you. We have two individual applications. First is Honorable Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44800	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here are the proposals for decisions on the participation of members of the Armed Forces in the peace operations of the European Union and the United Nations, and of course I am, since we are now a full member of NATO and we are soon entering the European Union, of course, supporting and supporting these peace operations. As regards this operation, "Atalanta" since the Council of the European Union extended Operation "Atalanta" for another year and Croatia is expected to make an active contribution to European Union operations in Somalia by the end of 2010. Operation Atalanta is the first maritime operation of the European Union. And now I would just like to point out what the Republic of Croatia is getting by extending the duration of the operation another year for members of our Armed Forces at Atalanta. So, by participating in international peace operations, our country is credible to testify that it is ready to take over its share of the world's general security burden. We also contribute to the development of the European Union's operational capabilities for action in joint disarmament operations, humanitarian tasks, conflict prevention, combat force tasks and crisis management, including peacemaking. We are now a full member of NATO, and we see that both ships and NATO aircraft are involved in this operation along with the ships of members of the European Union. The participation of Croatian Navy officers and officers will be useful in the acquisition of practical knowledge and experience both in the exercise of ship's duties and in the main work. By participating in this peace operation, the Republic of Croatia is proving its readiness to actively contribute to the objectives of the European Union's foreign security policy, which is to support world peace and security. With this engagement in the European Union peace mission in Africa, the Republic of Croatia reaffirms its strategic goal of membership in the European Union, strengthens the political and military credibility of EU member states by presenting itself as a reliable partner in the implementation of peacekeeping tasks. That's why I'm going to support these suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44801	Thank you. And we have a distinguished representative, Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44802	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, I'll only take a few more minutes of your time, because as a scientist I feel I need to say one more thing. We, in this report, have been less and in these laws that we have discussed, we have mostly touched only military components, part of the possibility of participating in the education of military, or police personnel in the countries in which we participate. We mentioned earlier the participation of our healthcare professionals, doctors in some of these missions. However, when it comes to NATO, we have never discussed in this assembly the possibility of Croatia contributing not only to the soldiers but also to its scientific potential. NATO has a large number of committees, including the Committee on Science. Croatian biologists, microbiologists, chemists, biochemists, nuclear physicists and other engineers can certainly contribute. Unfortunately, the Croatian scientific community knows very little about these possibilities, so it would be very good to have the Ministry of Defence ensure that these scientists come into a position to see what projects they can participate in, compete and contribute to Croatia what they contribute to through scientific research. I must say, I spoke recently to an extraordinary scientist who received a state science award a year ago. It deals with a microorganism that is very important in the field of bioterrorism. They come to perfecting people from the Munchen Military Institute, the Institute of Military in Prague, and I tried and talked to General Lovric when he was here a few months ago and suggested that these people and such people get involved in these researches, that they go to scientific committee sessions and that we can also participate through other components in this NATO story. So I ask you to really try to open that possibility to make it transparent, to see what are the priorities, whether it will be the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of Science, or our National Science Council, which you can give an additional task to examine priorities within which Croatia could give and provide its services to NATO. I think that this could clearly avoid pressure on us to send soldiers exclusively to missions, but to do our part fairly and correctly through a scientific contribution to NATO. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44803	Now we have one replica. Dear Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44804	Your Honor, Mr. President. Here I agree with what Mr. Honorable Representative Doric said that science for peace as NATO's scientific programme is extremely attractive for all scientists. And the Croatian scientific community knows a lot about it, and I gave Mr. Doric a review of scientists and scientific institutions already working with the scientific NATO committee the other day. But what I want to say here, two things. Soldiers can't substitute themselves to scientists. The problems in Afghanistan, in the field, will not be solved by wise men, but by soldiers. That's what's important. However, by supporting this one, I would like to say the following, and I have informed Mr. Doric about this and I will take the opportunity to say it here in public. In the beginning of next year, the delegation of the Croatian Parliament, in cooperation with the Committee on Science of the Croatian Parliament, the Defence Committee, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Science and other scientific institutions, will organise a round table on the subject and now we have been announced by scientists from NATO bodies and the NATO Scientific Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44805	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met. That's what we end up with today's work. Tomorrow we continue at 9:30 as usual, with the 10th item of the agenda, that's the Proposal of the Prosecution Act, and then we have a whole set of judicial laws. I wish you all a good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-08-0.u44806	8th Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members. 8 is the point, Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union peace operation, NAFvor, Somalia, Atalanta. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I stress that we are in line with Article 227. The Rules of Procedure of this Decision require a two-thirds majority of all MPs, i.e. 102 votes. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union peace operation, NAFvor, Somalia, Atalanta. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The motion for a decision was accepted by most votes, 113 votes for, one abstention and one against, in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, we continue to work and move on to - Final proposal of the law on probation, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 332 The proposal for an act has been entered into the boxes. This bill will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading, amendments can be submitted until the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mr. Zoran Pichuljan, State Secretary at the Department of Justice. Here you go.
