ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30225	Ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, I warmly welcome you all and continue the work of the 9th session of the Croatian Parliament. I'd like to welcome dr. Ivo Sanader, Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and present members of the government. Allow me to welcome the members of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly delegation, led by Asen Agov,... The vice-president of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly who are on an official visit to the Republic of Croatia and who will attend today's session. [[Applause.]] We move to the first point of today's agenda - Final bill on the approval of the North Atlantic Treaty, emergency procedure, first and second reading. P.Z. No. 309 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was held: the Committee on Law, the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Defence Committee. You received the reports at the session. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government, Dr. Ivo Sanader will introduce and supplement I'm right. [[You said vice president.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30226	Look, the Parliament gives you confidence. If the President of Parliament says so, if you decide, that's the case. All right, thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to join in the name of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, in my personal name, to welcome the members of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. I'm glad they're here today when the Croatian Parliament discusses ratification of the Treaty, the North Atlantic Treaty. It is a great honor and pleasure for me to propose in this House of higher education the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the North Atlantic Treaty, i.e. to confirm the entry of the Republic of Croatia into full NATO membership. After all parliaments of member states ratified the Protocol on Croatia's accession to NATO, the Croatian Parliament as the most representative body of the Croatian people and Croatian citizens today is on a historic occasion to adopt a decision on our country's entry into the most important, central security organisation of the free democratic world. By such a decision, this House will confirm what we know and what we have been seeking since the beginning of our independence, it will confirm that Croatia belongs to the community of freedom, security, peace, democracy and development, the community of Europe and North America. By such a decision by the representative and the MPs you will confirm that Croatia is returning home, to take the place that belongs to it under the law of our history, by the right of our culture, by the right of our choice to live in security and by the right of our strength to defend ourselves when it is necessary and by the right of our willingness to help others in ensuring peace and freedom. Croatian adherence to the basic principles of the Euro-Atlantic family will be confirmed, namely freedom, peace, democracy, rule of law, human rights, minority rights, free and socially responsible market economy. These are the values for which Croatia stands today. These are the values for which Croatian citizens have been plebiscitarianally defined 20 years ago. Values that are woven into the very foundations of a sovereign, independent and independent Croatian state. Indeed, when the Berlin Wall fell two decades ago and democratic aspirations from the Baltic Sea to the Adriatic Sea removed communist dictatorships and ideological borders and divisions on our continent. Croatia also opened the space for a democratic revolution and national independence as a component of then emerging new Europe and then the start of a reshaping of alliances. The European unification and the new reformed NATO in the new global environment of the world that has turned from confrontation to cooperation and dialogue have been both a goal and a framework and an incentive and platform for achieving our aspirations. And from the very beginning of the independent path of our country of Croatia, and especially at a time when we had to face great Serbian aggression and expansionist policy of Milosevic's regime in neighbouring Serbia, we drew a strategic goal of relying on ourselves, but at the same time ensuring that our country is never left without allies in defence of freedom and democracy. Today, 20 years later, by entering the Republic of Croatia into NATO, we can be sure that no one else will endanger our freedom. We can be sure that there is no danger of a political or military that could ever collapse again in Croatia because it will forever prevent the solidarity of our new democratic allies the most powerful in the world. As Croatia enters NATO today, Croatia becomes safer. The future of peace is secure, the future of democracy and progress for our country, for the Croatian people and for all Croatian citizens. Dear MPs and MPs, aware of the importance of this moment, and recalling everything we have been through and proud of everything we have achieved in the last two decades, today we can and must say, Croatia has succeeded. Croatia enters NATO, Croatia will never again be the object of foreign coercion ever again. Now we become part of a family of the free world that protects its members. We are now becoming a full and equal entity in the community of the world's most developed democracies. By joining NATO, Croatia strengthens its independence and statehood. By membership in the North Atlantic Alliance, Croatia also gets a brand-new place, role and responsibility, and I stress that, and responsibility in international relations. Croatia has never been in such a situation and I therefore responsibly confirm that in our overall modern history Croatia has never had a better, safer and more influential international position. It hardly needs to be told in front of Croatia, in front of our people and in front of this House how difficult we are, with how much effort and over how many obstacles we have reached that position. I dare say that in the modern history of Europe, especially since the democratic revolution of the 1990s, since the creation of a new European security landscape began, no country has passed such a difficult path of independence, the abuse of occupied territory, the release of our landscapes and the arrival of our borders, a strong swing towards European integration, and so on, now membership in the North Atlantic Alliance. Our people have carried on their shoulders the burden of their ancestors' historical aspirations to live freely in peace and development, with no one in conflict, safe in themselves, for no harm to anyone, for their future generations to benefit. Therefore, for this series of great victories of military and political, spiritual and human, I would like to acknowledge in this House the recognition of all those who have contributed to this strategic goal of Croatian state policy. First of all, I want to express my deepest gratitude to all Croatian defenders because without them there would be no independent Croatia, nor would there be our entry into NATO. I would like to pay a special tribute to all those who gave their lives for Croatian freedom, those who stood on the defender of the Homeland when it was most difficult and who did not bow down when needed. To their loved ones, especially the children of the dead defenders, but also to all younger generations, I want to make it clear today, we will never forget the heroes of the Homeland War, and we will always learn what they mean to this country and to this people, and I can bring unity and harmony. I would also like to give recognition here to the first Croatian president, Dr Franji Tudjman, because, with the plebiscite support of Croatian citizens, he has plotted a path that the country has persistently and patiently, resolutely and wisely gone for almost two decades to become an equal member of the Euro-Atlantic community of democracy. Dear MPs, respected MPs, I have repeatedly pointed out that NATO is not only a military organisation, but a community of democratic values, but it is a community that is willing to defend those values when needed. I would therefore like to mention today all members of the Armed Forces of the Croatian Army and the Croatian Police who are participating in NATO's missions, as well as in operations led by the United Nations and the European Union around the world. From the Croatian Parliament, from this highest House of Croatian Democracy I want to send a clear message to our soldiers in Kabul, Masar-a Sharif, Charcharan, Golan and all other places where international peace is defended, I want to send a message on behalf of all of us, Croatia is proud of you. When we talk today about our soldiers, but also about the directors and diplomats on peace missions around the world, then we have to remember where we were 15 years ago. Foreign soldiers were coming to us. Croatia was a user, an international security facility. Croatia was under discussion at the NATO Security Council. Today, Croatia is an exporter of security and is sitting at a table where decisions are made both in New York and Brussels. It's our success, it's our joint success. I would particularly like to highlight the role of the President of the Republic of Croatia in strengthening Croatia's international position. I would also like to mention parliamentary diplomacy, as well as the importance of all decisions of the Croatian Parliament on sending Croatian troops to peacekeeping missions. I would also like to highlight the previous governments' contribution on our path to NATO, from those first forms of NATO co-operation during the 1990s to 2000 when Croatia was admitted to the Partnership for Peace and in 2002 when Croatia entered the membership action plan. I would especially like to emphasise the importance of reforms undertaken in the defence and security sectors, but also a significant contribution from Croatian diplomacy as well as from the entire Croatian state administration, our preparations for full membership in NATO. Finally, but not less importantly, I would like to thank both NATO and the Member States themselves for the support shown to Croatia. Parliamentarians from almost all Member States are here, and I want to welcome them again and again and on this occasion. On top of that, however, I would like to highlight the support of the Croatian people and Croatian citizens who today largely support the accession of the Republic of Croatia to NATO. This shows all public opinion research, but it is shown first and foremost by the results of all previous parliamentary elections in which citizens have reaffirmed the mandate of this High House to confirm Croatia's entry into NATO. It is now up to this House to accept the 1949 treaty that brought Europe 60 years of peace and prosperity. This will lead the Croatian Parliament to decide on the basis of which Croatia will also participate as a full member at the summit of the 60th anniversary of the NATO Alliance, which will be held on 3rd and 4th April at the border between France and Germany. The symbol of Strasbourg and Kehla tells us that the new North Atlantic alliance is based on new strategic specifics under the circumstances of the disappearance of block confrontation, today also part of the epochal process of transforming the world of confrontation into a world of co-operation, i.e. Cooperation. NATO is also part of an effort to build the world of co-operation on the right, on dialogue, on respect. NATO is also part of efforts to expand the knowledge that security is not only a guarantee of weapons, but also a policy of dialogue, strengthening democracy and strengthening human rights. NATO is also part of efforts to regulate its relations on principles of mutual respect, reciprocity and respect without coercion, without pressure, without conditions. In this same context, it should be recalled that the transatlantic framework of NATO also created conditions for the maturing of thoughts and ideals on European integration to remove all barriers to the joint building of Europe's future. Thus, in our case, NATO will have much more implications than those exclusively related to our security because I repeat once again, NATO is not only a defence and security association, but also a political organisation of Western democracies Europe and North America. It is an organisation that connects the strongest and richest trading partners of the world economy and therefore opens up new opportunities and new guarantees to the Croatian economy, which are particularly important in these times of crisis. NATO brings security to both domestic and foreign investors, NATO marks the anchoring of Croatia and the Croatian economy in the transatlantic market, which is a further driver of the world economy. Ladies and gentlemen, as Croatia enters NATO, Croatia enters a new part of the development of our country and our society. We are entering a period during which we will assume greater rights and greater responsibility on the international stage. We are entering the period in which Croatia needs and can, in full cooperation with its allies in NATO, assume greater responsibility for peace, stability and progress in our neighbouring region, as NATO will continue to be a key factor in creating the security architecture of Southeast Europe. Therefore, as a new member of the alliance, Croatia will contribute to the defence of its interests, as well as to the Euro-Atlantic perspectives of peace and prosperity for all Southeast European countries. The threats and security circumstances that NATO faces today are not the same as those during the Cold War, as those 20 years ago. New threats, above all international terrorism, but today the more and more issue of energy security, climate change, as well as the many regional conflicts and crises present, all this requires even stronger international co-operation, especially among the democracies who are willing to participate in the solidarity of promoting global peace and security. As a dynamic organisation, NATO is adapting to new challenges that require new strategic thinking. And in this context after entering full membership Croatia will also be ready to contribute to the development of the contemporary 21st century alliance, an alliance that will be based on a strong transatlantic partnership and in an agreed transatlantic policy. An alliance that will remain open to co-operation and constructive dialogue with other key factors and partners in international relations, an alliance that will retain strategic determination to defend peace, defend freedom, defend democracy. The community of values it gathers and protects the alliance, today it faces new challenges. We are witnessing the most difficult economic crisis in the developed world. We must be aware that the crisis carries its influences and on many aspects of the world's security, we must be aware that the global security landscape is constantly changing. And that is why we must be part of a strategic dialogue that is already in the alliance today, and especially before the recent summit requires a common platform, common views of the future of the world, of the adjustments needed and of the common political will to ensure this future. Croatia wants and can be a participant of this debate, it must also be for the reasons of our national security, because it will be because it has political will. In this way, and actively participating in promoting stability in our neighbourhood in Europe and the world, Croatia will, together with other Western allies, protect freedom, security and democracy both for itself and for its citizens. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs, for all of these reasons on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Act on Confirmation of the North Atlantic Treaty. Thank you for your attention. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30227	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30228	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen. I join the greetings of my colleagues from the NATO Parliamentary Assembly who are here today with us to express their support. The membership of the Republic of Croatia in the North Atlantic organisation is its external political and security objective, a priority and I would say without any exaggeration, a constant of Croatian state policy since the early 1990s. That's what many facts prove. Since 1994, 29. 11. We signed an agreement on co-operation with the United States government whose main goal was to bring NATO closer to the alliance. Also in a number of MPs from the President of the Republic of Dr Franjo Tudjman, this goal was clearly presented as the top priority of Croatian state policy. In 1999, at a Washington summit on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the NATO alliance, Croatia was an observer. I want to point out next, joining NATO is an external political and security priority for all these 20 years. What is particularly important is to point out this occasion that an impressive result and progress has been achieved to achieve this important foreign policy goal for the past 10 years. And that's why we're here today just one step ahead of full NATO membership. Certainly today, March 25, 2009 should be remembered perhaps on March 25, 1991, as the Croatian security political reality seemed, then 18 years ago. It should be remembered, first of all, that all those who have allowed our lives to stand here today, 20 thousand dead, 50 thousand wounded, one third of Croatia was almost literally destroyed. Busted bridges, broken communications, crashed roads, railways. We survived although serious military experts and analysts then predicted, not without exaggeration, Croatia will not last 14 days. Let us remember at that time the alliance of the People's Defence Secretary goes to Moscow to get the support of Russian generals for the military coup he was preparing. At the time, the territorial defence of the Republic of Croatia, but not only the Republic of Croatia, was disarmed. The international community was ready for the embargo to prevent the disarmed Croatian people from defending and defending themselves. It was a political, security scene of the Republic of Croatia in 1991. Only thanks to the brave, wise, state and determined politics of the Croatian state leadership of those years have we managed to survive not only in '91. A year, '92. but we managed to defend the Republic of Croatia in 1995 and the Dayton Peace Agreement was signed. Also today in 2000, 2001, 2002, 2009 only thanks to brave and wise Croatian state policy, Croatia is a step towards full membership in NATO. And these are the facts to be remembered this moment on March 25th 2009. The membership of the Republic of Croatia in NATO is a firm guarantee of Croatian security, which is a fundamental prerequisite for the continuation of the smooth progress of Croatian society, the development of the Croatian economic system in line with the interests of citizens and the fundamental values set out in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. NATO will get a reliable ally in the Republic of Croatia, as said in the opening statements, almost 5 hundred Croatian soldiers, are on various missions to preserve peace in the world, NATO and the European Union missions. The Republic of Croatia will actively contribute to NATO membership, both its own national security and NATO's security as a whole. And this fact and this finding that nearly 5 hundred Croatian soldiers are in various peace operations, it is in the best way that it confirms it. The Republic of Croatia is now ready for NATO membership to testify to a NATO membership invitation served in the Republic of Croatia at the NATO summit in Bucharest on 3 April 2008. All of this Croatia earned after extensive reforms it carried out under the so-called a full-fledged action plan for NATO membership. A comprehensive reform, not only in the defence sector, but also in all other areas that determine the quality of governance of a modern state. After successfully bringing the end of the accession talks with NATO, the NATO Member States in Brussels on 9 July 2008 listed the Protocol of the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Croatia, and thus began the process of ratification of the protocol in the national parliaments of the Member States. The process will be completed by laying down all 26 instruments on ratification and acceptance by the United States government representing the depositary of the North Atlantic Treaty, which is expected to be completed in the coming days. Confirmation of the North Atlantic Treaty in the Croatian Parliament is ending the process of legal accession of our country to NATO. By laying down its instruments of accession to the North Atlantic Treaty, the Republic of Croatia will officially become a full member of the NATO Alliance. A few words on the basic issues proposed to be regulated by this bill. It primarily concerns the area of security, defence and foreign policy, collective defence issues of allies and efforts to preserve peace and security, as well as issues of collective, military and defence capabilities of the North Atlantic Contracting Parties. The North Atlantic Treaty obliges parties, which is particularly important to highlight the peaceful resolution of all international disputes, and to refrain from threatening or using any form of force incompatible with the objectives of the United Nations. The North Atlantic Treaty also stipulates that States parties can call on any European state willing to promote the principles of the treaty and contribute to the security of the North Atlantic area, to join the North Atlantic Treaty, thus opening up the possibility of spreading NATO alliances and in the future, so-called The open door policy is very important for the expansion of the security zone not only in Europe but also beyond. A few words about the financial resources needed to implement this law. The NATO Resource Office transparently designated 1 May 2009 as a time frame of entry into force of the financial obligation for the Republic of Croatia. Next, the Republic of Croatia will be obliged to pay its share in the NATO budget for 8 months this year. The main types of NATO that will create financial commitments for the Republic of Croatia concern the civil budget, military budget, construction of NATO's infrastructure as well as new NATO headquarters, including resettlement and rent for new areas where civil and military representatives of the Republic of Croatia will sit. It is about estimates of 3m euros. Taking into account that the achievement of the full membership of the Republic of Croatia in NATO is one of the main foreign policy objectives in order to achieve this objective, it is necessary for the Republic of Croatia to, after the end of the protocol procedure in the parliaments of all NATO member states and its entry into force, and upon receipt of a call from the Secretary-General of NATO on behalf of the Member States for accession of the Republic of Croatia at the most recent time, and we are doing so today to implement the procedure for confirming the North Atlantic Treaty in order to become a full member of the Republic of Croatia by means of its instruments of accession. This would enable and will certainly allow Croatia to participate as a full member of NATO at the summit in Strasbourg on 3 and 4 April 2009. For all these reasons, the HDZ Club will give full support to the proposal of this Act on the approval of the North Atlantic Treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30229	Thank you. SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30230	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. We agree that this is today an important event for the Republic of Croatia and that it has in a certain way a solemn note. It is important to be in NATO for the Republic of Croatia and we agree with that and we will vote for this ratification. It is important to say that NATO is not only a security umbrella, it is not just soldiers and weapons, it is not only planes and missiles, although it is the most spoken about when it comes to NATO. That's what I'm saying because if we were to talk only about planes and missiles then there are examples, I'd be free to say Afghanistan here, even Iraq where the whole thing wasn't exactly the most famously run and most famously finished. Therefore, when we talk about NATO, we should not only talk about weapons, because that is not the case. It's important for us here to point out a few more of the following things. First, the Republic of Croatia is a society in transition that wants to become part of the modern world. It's our legitimate right and I think it's our success to get to the point that one stage on that road is being realized today. Now what it means to become part of the modern world. It means developed and just society. In short, it means organized society. I'll say that we haven't yet become organized society by the standards of the modern world and that there's still a lot of work to be done here. We must first and foremost achieve development, we must achieve social justice, we must ensure the rule of law, we must have equality of minorities and sense for all vulnerable groups. It's an extremely big bite in our way or on our way to becoming what society is said, whatever it means, and we know about what it means. Of course, we couldn't do it until now, although we could probably have had much better results in many segments. I just want to say that the pursuit of orderly society is an important social political bite and, of course, we feel and carry it as an important political burden. The next thing you know, it's about our topic and our NATO membership. NATO membership is an opportunity for the Republic of Croatia to become part of a modern and developed family. It's an important title, it's a good framework and it's a great ticket that in a better environment, in a better atmosphere, with a better transport, with better control and with clearer criteria we work on what leads us to a fairer and orderly society. For us, it is on the one hand a motive, and on the other hand a way to become a better society faster and better. We, above all, understand our membership, so the membership of the Republic of Croatia in NATO in this way or understand more than through the power of weapons, regardless of the fact that in a turbulent world neither weapons are irrelevant. I'll add one more thing. We understand, I think that we all understand together here that for the Republic of Croatia it is an honor, but also an opportunity and I would like to simply point out that on the one hand it is a motive, a challenge, is an honor, but to an equal extent and an opportunity to get a better political result or to get better results below in the coming times. And on the other hand, this is because of both the obligation and the responsibility to work more efficiently through the European Union through these criteria and through NATO and tomorrow through the European Union on political tasks to turn Croatia, I repeat, into a better and more orderly society. This means first of all that we are responsible for our citizens, according to the rules under which advanced and developed Western democracy and Western societies operate. The next thing I know, I need to point out right now, starting with what I said. The strongest security, regardless of the power of weapons and development is trust, is respect for the law, is social justice and we as a society must achieve it. Joining NATO is a good opportunity and a great commitment to the same extent, for us it is a good chance and a great deal of commitment. I've already said, because we're going to have to act or we have to act within the context of the established criteria that are good or best so far and according to the proposition that we have to play by, as we say, according to the world rules. It's harder, but it's much more useful. I'm going to say one more thing in the end that I also find important. The Republic of Croatia, after its entry into NATO, is precisely because of these rules that I was talking about here, can be a resilient point for expanding these rules and a positive atmosphere and in its environment, in a regional environment. This seems to me to be a challenge for Croatia, in a certain way, is a chance, in a certain way, an honor, but in a certain way and an obligation to spread such an atmosphere in our environment here. I had to say all of this simply because when we talk about NATO, I repeat again, we don't talk and we don't just think about the power of the weapon. And precisely because of all this and the chance this topic and our NATO entry gives, I think it's perfectly natural that we all vote together for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30231	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30232	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. A serious and important event in Croatia's recent history says the prime minister. A man would conclude one of the most important must not be turned into a procedural trait. I am not going to make historical speeches here, and I do not want to create negative energy at an important moment, but it is incomprehensible that the prime minister did not find the time to attend this short, and we believe at the end of a very successful procedure in which the SDP club will, following what we did, advocate and what we fought for and what we did when we could vote for it. There's no dilemma. I think it is not correct that in the political speech that the prime minister read to us, he cited all those to be cited, primarily Croatian defenders, the Croatian Army as an institution, as an organisation that was forming painful, slow, difficult, through the mechanism of international sanctions and eventually grew into a serious organisation. It is okay that he also mentioned President Tudjman, because he was the president of the Croatian state for a whole decade, chosen by the democratic will of the Croatian people in several elections. However, I would only modestly add that some things happened during the first years of this decade. That Croatia was finally admitted to the Partnership for Peace in 2000, that a Croatian statesman finally spoke for the first time in the Atlantic Council. That in 2002, Croatia was admitted to the "The Membership Ation Plan" membership plan as the last step towards NATO membership. Unfortunately, this step lasted more than 6 years, almost 7 years and that finally in 2003, in March 2003, the Croatian Army, which I am also emphasising here, the Croatian Army and its members by the will of this Parliament, by decision and proposal of the Croatian Government, went to participate in a peace mission in Afghanistan. It all happened in those three years. These are important, crucial, inevitable steps in the way of Croatian integration when the statesman is talking about it in front of the tall representative body. So, as to will, commitment, goal when it comes to the SDP, there is no dilemma. We'll vote for it. However, when it comes to procedure, then from such important decisions, and from the words of the president of the HDZ, I conclude that it is one of the most important foreign and political decisions and memberships in Croatian history, most important after Croatia's entry into the United Nations, or nation. And as some kind of introduction to what is the biggest, most important and most important thing that awaits us soon, and not later, and that is membership in the European Union. So Croatia enters NATO and the government proposes that the decision be taken by a simple parliamentary majority of Article 139th of the first Croatian Constitution, a simple majority. It's translated into numbers that makes it more clear to all 39 MPs. Are we going to make a joke from the Croatian Constitution or are we going to make serious decisions in the way that it is likely to apply. I recall that in the summer of last year we made a decision on ratification, i.e. attesting to the Agreement on the Legal Status of the American Military Forces, and that there was also one dispute over whether this treaty, which no doubt confers constitutional powers on another country, should be ratified in this Assembly by a simple majority or two-thirds majority, and then the Committee on the Constitution, on a proposal from the SDP, took the view that such a position is acceptable and that this constitutional provision on the two-thirds majority could also be applied to giving authority to another country in this case to the United States. We now have a phenomenal situation in which only membership in a single alliance is brought by a simple majority, and the legal and political consequences of that membership by a two-thirds majority. So let me ask you when we are confirming today the decision to enter Croatia into NATO and when the government claims it is one of the most ordinary contracts from which no significant legal and political consequences arise, and it does not need to be ratified by a two-thirds majority of how many of you dear colleagues and colleagues have read the Washington Agreement. As the prime minister said, it's an '49 agreement. years, and we're given the '51 version for adoption. the year, so amended and updated in connection with Greece and Turkey's accession. If anyone's in that '49 Washington deal to me. and '51, respectively. The year finds the word NATO or the alliance I pay for his lunch. The word NATO is not mentioned in this agreement. This is a political agreement that is a 60-year-old legal political framework for the creation of an organisation that has grown for decades, which is not in the agreement. The Council is mentioned as a top political body and possibly a defence committee. Everything else is, and you who have dealt with this well know it has grown for decades and decades, and in this sense NATO represents a unique case and precedent in international law and international organisations. And to claim that membership in NATO is a move that Croatia has made after everything the prime minister has said does not convey its destiny, fate not only constitutional authority, fate to a common alliance that is much more than a military alliance, it is simply incorrect. It is a political blindness, or it may be ignoring and afraid that the SDP club will not vote in favour of such a decision. It's a fear that's in vain. Please don't measure us with your own measure. The same case was in a referendum on NATO that we advocated not to be negative, not for citizens to reject that decision, but to make a decision in partnership with citizens that binds probably generations of Croatian people, citizens, if you will. So, we are two-thirds majority in this House making a decision on the departure of 5 Croatian soldiers to Sierra Leone, but we are making a historic, fateful decision for Croatia by a simple majority. And as much as it may seem to someone as a procedural question, it's a profound political issue. And that is why I call you once again, and I do not condition the vote of the SDP to consider whether or not we are going to do from this House what it is or are going to do from it one side-by-side non-important voting body. Yes, by entering NATO, Croatia is changing the course of its history. By joining NATO, Croatia is making major foreign-political decisions. Yes, by entering NATO under the Washington Agreement, Croatia also reserves the theoretical right to make its last decision on its engagement in the war. That's right. However, if our message is at this point that every time we bid on it, with such a decision, if such a situation arises, then it is an dishonest message to our allies already at the beginning. So let us be aware of the decision we make. We are making an important decision, a decision that, perhaps in 5, 10, 20 years, and God forbid, will mean the departure of the Croatian army to war, in defense of someone living outside the Croatian border, and therefore we cannot make such a decision lightly, we cannot make it in a way that shows mild contempt for the institutions and one indifference. I wish government members had stayed here for at least half an hour with us, but they obviously have more important things to do. We must show that we know the importance of this institution, and Croatia is equal to its institutions. They're being built and it's a process that takes a long time. In the end, this is a great alliance, the only alliance in history when it didn't come true that the alliances died when they won. This is the only alliance that has never fought for what it was founded for, but which has outlived its original purpose and it is good that Croatia, it is important that Croatia enters it sooner or later, is never too late for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30233	Thank you. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30234	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the honourable gentleman's representatives, Mr. Europarliamentaries. Here, so in the moments when we're doing a little bit of what we'd like, this NATO-access agreement can be said to be a melem in the wound. We are unable to resolve relations with Slovenia. I agree, more because of Slovenia's guilt or absolutely because of Slovenia's guilt, than Croatia, we fail to warm relations with Serbia or Bosnia and Herzegovina, we fail to win our tutors Germany or Italy when it comes to Slovenia. In one word, when the finances in this country fall apart because the prime minister would not use the word bankruptcy in vain, when Europe turns its back on us, this agreement is a little light, come on at the end of the tunnel. I have the impression that all of us in this assembly are truly for NATO. I agree with those who have previously said that NATO does not need a referendum, I absolutely support Mr Milanovic's two-thirds stand-up in this part of the two-thirds majority. And indeed, we send five soldiers to Sierra Leone with a two-thirds majority, and we adopt the NATO Agreement with the ordinary majority. On the other hand, if we lose an opportunity around NATO, Croatia would be in another ungrateful position. To be honest, between NATO and a good tourist season, I would always choose what life means, one good season. Between the loss of jobs and in February, 512 workers were left out of work in Croatia, a Cimos daily, I would always choose Croatia's economic stability rather than NATO's. Instead of singleing out for NATO and resuscitating the fallen Croatian economy, it is clear that I would always choose to help the Croatian economy, but I agree that NATO is an opportunity that Croatia must not refuse at this time. The truth is that yesterday the prime minister said that Croatia, let's say, was '91. Had it been a state, if it had been a NATO member, there wouldn't have been a war that didn't destroy the country's economic base, as this crisis is, but for Croatia the economic downturn that is not just about the war in sight. Governments, first of all, are responsible for this current transformation, the sale of banks, and the International Community that did not, and if it wanted to stop the war in '91. both in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. But out of all this chaos, now the question is, how can we get out? I only claim early elections. This economic chaos can't get us out of new people because these new people don't, but they can just get us out of new policies. Gentlemen, in order to avoid any dilemma, I am absolutely NATO, although I would like to withdraw troops from the failed NATO mission in Afghanistan tomorrow. And let me once again express my fear that something might happen to one of our soldiers there. And I'm probably the only one in this assembly who's always voted against sending Croatian troops to Afghanistan for two years because, especially gentlemen upstairs at the gallery, it's very well known that this intervention will end as well as the intervention of the Soviet Union, unless I'm wrong in '78. A year. Finally, that mission failed today began to speak and Mr. Obama. What's also interesting is this data on page 4. NATO membership costs estimates for 8 months in 2009 and then a civilian budget, military budget, construction of NATO's infrastructure, a new NATO headquarters, etc., resettlement, renting new space, a total of 3 million and 30 thousand euros. I assure you that in this oddity, it is not a problem in Croatia to single out these 3 million euros. This is not even a bigger problem for an empty Croatian budget. The problem is something else, and that's next. Croatia stands out significantly less than 2% of the gross social budget for defence today. However, when we rebalance the budget that we will vote on for, say, 7 or 10 days, it doesn't matter anyway, that budget to the Ministry of Defence will be denied, if I'm not mistaken for another 500 to 600 million kuna. This will say that today we stand out about 1.5, 1.6% of the gross social budget. But by joining NATO, the standard should be 2% of the gross social budget. I don't think we can agree to that. I repeat, the 2009 Ministry of Defence budget of the Republic of Croatia will not be more than 3.8 billion to 4 billion kuna. Now, if I'm not mistaken, it's worth 4.5 billion kuna. So minus 500, 600 million kuna, we're somewhere below 4 billion kuna. So, for the third time, I'll do it here again. I am for NATO. If we were in NATO, we wouldn't have destroyed Croatian cities, if we were in NATO, we wouldn't have witnessed and our adventures in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we wouldn't have dozens of destroyed cities, thousands of dead, and if we were in NATO in the 1990s, our gross social product would be twice as big today because we would have avoided war, we would be in Europe today, we would have the euro and with all the problems we would have, we wouldn't be afraid that we would be able to serve external debt at all in the year ahead. I understand that without NATO, there is no European Union. Croatia is not Switzerland that can do without the European Union or without NATO. Croatia is today the European Union, I dare say, desperately necessary. Why? So to avoid the very financial bankruptcy that the prime minister may have brought us to. Today, the foreign currency debt of the Republic of Croatia is greater than one of the country's gross social products. It is 4 times larger today than Croatia's one-year exports. In 2009, it's going to be five times bigger. In 2008, foreign exchange debt increased by 17.4%. We're due in 2009. 12.3 billion euros. We can't provide those foreign exchanges for importing and serviceing external debt. And finally, in 2009, we need to return perhaps twice as much as our exports will be that year or this year our exports will be. Last year there were 14 billion kunas, this year there will be no more than 11 billion kuna. And on the other hand, we had imports of 30 billion dollars last year. I think she's very well aware of this government. Unfortunately, our citizens are not yet aware of it, but the citizens know what the government may not know. That this government has brought them into this and that perhaps a solution would be political changes that will never happen again. I'm sure we're in 2009. NATO doesn't need us, I don't know, to remove some territorial danger in these areas. There is no political leadership in this unfortunate Balkans that would hold back the military in 2009 instead of diplomacy, politics, to solve the borders, to open up another minority of these or such issues. It is for us, but NATO needs it today primarily as a democratic legitimacy that we can say that we belong to countries that respect democratic standards, that we belong to European civilization, if it is not clear to someone, and I think that Croatia has always been part of Europe and that here we are in solidarity with countries, let's say, Western hemispheres. I do not think that economically vulnerable Croatia should, as I said, single out 2% of gross social product for the military as I also believe that Croatia can no longer increase its missions abroad. I also said we don't need a referendum, and today, fortunately, no one mentions it. And finally, if he were to be held now at the time of the local election, we all know who he'd go to most in favor of. Certainly not the opposition. So, when the European Union will not accept Croatia's membership before 2012, among other things, it is likely that, in the 2011 regular elections, the campaign would not lead to the question of who introduced Croatia into the European Union, the referendum for NATO is too high, but NATO needs it as the bread of the day. In all, Croatia is well behind in both NATO and the European Union. Croatia should already be a member of both NATO and the European Union. I claim that there was another government in the position of this government, that we would already be in NATO. I also agree with this, I do not underestimate anyone at all, that if some countries like one of Romania, Bulgaria's some Baltic countries could have been part of NATO and the European Union, then the European Union should have heard more about Croatian problems and allowed us to legislate or give us that legitimacy. But now the question is whether it is the bureaucrats in Brussels, who do nothing again without the will of their governments, or whether we are guilty of a Croatian failure that we are not members of NATO and the European Union alone. I say the biggest guilt about it is on us in this country. All in all, this law as a introduction to NATO membership is the best thing that can happen to us right now. Although I would say once again, I prefer the season to be good, that our companies have work to do, that we can't work on Sundays, that the interest begins to fall, that the relations with the neighbours are less, that Croatian shipbuilding is not cancelled by contracts, as can be expected on 6 ships "Olinik" and that I don't count any further. All in all, I will also join the thanks to both the defenders and the Croatian Army, and Tudjman, and President Mesic, and Racan, and Sanader, but looking ahead, indeed NATO is looking ahead and that is why the IDS Club will surely support this Law confirming the North Atlantic Treaty.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30235	Thank you. Two corrections. First Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30236	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In a discussion of fellow Caine, who is the same or the same as an egg, he said an absolutely incorrect finding, when he spoke of the adventure of us, referring to the Republic of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina. My colleague Cain, this is absolutely incorrect. It was not an adventure, it was a military intervention under the Split Agreement, which prevented the destruction of the Bihaćka province, and therefore prevented another step. It is still to be said that in fact all the support of Bosnia and Herzegovina during the war, because I was a witness here and below, so Bosnia and Herzegovina all the support came through the Republic of Croatia or the sea, or by land, or by air. Only through the Republic of Croatia. Croatia has also played a key role in the survival of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, there was no adventure, but only support, the protection of the Croatian people in that area, and the support of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30237	Second correction, Mr. Representative Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30238	So in a series of incorrect data Mr. Cain pointed out in his debate, I'll just remind him, the 2009 Department of Defense budget is not 4 billion and something, but an esteemed colleague, here in kuna, 5 billion 698 million 233 thousand 823 kuna. A lot more than these four billion you said. NATO does not seek or condition 2%. NATO recommends 2% as one against the gross domestic product. NATO as a system of solidarity financing. When will Croatia reach that 2%? It is clearly stated in the long-term development plan adopted by this House of Commons, so since 2010, the document has also been forecasting a document review in accordance with the National Security Strategy. All of this should be read before the debate, not deceived by the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30239	HNS representative club Mrs. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30240	Vice President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State. This is of course an important moment for Croatia. It doesn't require too much euphoria, but it doesn't require too much doubt at this point. It is clear that for Croatia, especially in this field where we are and at the moment at which this is happening, means NATO membership, means security and stability. For every country, and especially a country in creation and a country in the thorny area, which without further history shows that this part of Europe has always been a thorny area, security and stability are a prerequisite for every other advancement, a prerequisite for the possibility of democracy and the possibility of a fair society. Therefore, regardless of all the dilemmas that are being discussed and in public, it is obvious that this is one for us, as far as politics can even have such a kind of guarantee that this is a positive guarantee for us. The fact that we are participating in NATO and NATO membership also participate in a decision on NATO policy at a time when it is changing and when changes and concepts are on the agenda, NATO policies and the election of the secretary-general. As you know, the term of office of the current NATO Secretary-General stands out and the NATO Secretary-General is elected, who is almost certainly a European and at the moment, or a Scandinavac, and even possibly Eastern European as a potential candidate. So at one point NATO will make decisions, which will determine it during the period ahead, Croatia will sit at the table at which these decisions will be made. This is what has always been our goal not to decide our fate without us. And whatever it is that's being decided in NATO whether we're members or not, it's up to us to decide our fate as well. And the only question is whether or not we are involved in this ratification and NATO entry, of course, we are involved. Our task in my opinion will be extra. So, it's not just about taking over the obligations of membership for Croatia on this field, taking on a membership obligation, it means taking on a commitment to expand stability to our narrow region, means Southeast Europe, but it also means designing an even more complicated strategy, which is spreading security to our wider region, which includes the Black Sea region, which has recently, as it is known, had major problems, still has major problems of instability. Therefore, the expansion of security to a region that is very likely or almost impossible, which is almost impossible to stabilise without the cooperation of NATO member states, EU and Russia. And NATO, unlike the times of the Cold War, is not an institution that is formed and set against Russia but is an institution that is formed and set up to find ways of cooperation with Russia, because without this cooperation, of course, there is no stability, and especially there is no stability in our wider region, so in the Black Sea area for which a new and much more sophisticated neighbourhood policy as the European Union concerns and which is without further cooperation between NATO, therefore, our future basic, parent organisation and Russia. NATO membership doesn't mean hostility to anyone. It means defining countries that cooperate and ensure or guarantee each other's safety, but does not mean jeopardising the safety of anyone who is not a member of that organization. This step is one of two steps that according to the HNS Club and I must say, by my personal deep conviction, is the fundamental responsibility and task of our generation of politicians. Everything else will work behind us. It is our job to provide institutional and security for the foundations that mean both the institutional and security guarantees of this country. One step is NATO membership and another step is membership in the European Union. I have to say that with the big one, I can't think of any more polite words with envy in 1999 when the first three transition countries entered NATO, then Croatia was practically in full international isolation and seemed amazing and unfathomable to think when we would have the chance to become a NATO member. In the '90s, it was our international isolation. However, today, therefore, the Czech Republic, Poland and Hungary entered in '99. Today we are in a position that we have finally reached that level and that we finally have the opportunity to secure this type of guarantee. The Treaty itself has, of course, a political part and has an economic part so that there will be no doubt about it, therefore, in the political part where it is said about guaranteeing democracy, individual freedom and the rule of law. It has Article 2 which speaks of economic cooperation and Member States' mutual economic relations. And there is, of course, a defensive part in Article 5 and in more detail in Article 6. And there's also a guarantee of the exclusiveity of this membership. So before the conclusion... prevents this contract from concluding international contracts that are contrary to this contract. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there's also a definition of the fundamental bodies that operate this future parent organization of ours. And it has a definition of how this institution extends and the possibility of changing the contract after 10 years and ending membership or leaving membership after 20 years. These are the gauges or the basic framework of the contract that we're ratifying today. Its importance is to respond to a permanent topic in this area, and this is a matter of security. It is a matter of security on the one hand in relation to external potential dangers, but the security issue and the internal situation and the possibility of stabilising our institutions, including the reorganisation and restructuring of our own army that it is no longer a threat to civil power. It is also a positive contribution that membership in this organization means to us. Procedureally, on behalf of the HNS club, I have two remarks at the moment when it is clear to everyone that this is without further ado, which is positive for Croatia, in our interest and that we will assume that we will all support it together. I've been working on two remarks. It would be logical for this decision to be made purely for reasons of giving importance to such a decision, to be made by a two-thirds majority. And secondly, it's about NATO, so military association, not only military but military association. And in the persons who represent this bill here in the House, even though it sits here and honors it, the defence minister is not listed. So the defence minister in the Croatian Parliament has no right to speak on behalf of the accession law that ratifys Croatia's accession agreement with NATO. I think it is absolutely inappropriate and that the defence minister in Parliament must have the right to speak for the government when it comes to NATO. So security is, it just had to be corrected both of them. Security is therefore a permanent topic for us, a lasting, historically important topic for Croatia in this area and a historically important topic for our region. I'm going to use an anecdote attributed to Einstein who, when the students warned him that the exams he gave them were the same as they were a year ago, so the questions were exactly the same as they were a year ago, Einstein answered them, you have the right, the questions are the same as they were a year ago, but the answers are no longer the same. Today we are changing our answer to the question of security. It's a better answer, a more lasting answer, and it means to us the first step that we must ensure as a generation for this country. Therefore, the HNS Club will support ratification of the Agreement with the North Atlantic Alliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30241	Thank you. The government sent a notice yesterday to the President of the Croatian Parliament that, apart from those representatives set out in the initial memo, they will participate in the work of the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies, Defence Minister Branko Vukelic has also appointed. National Minority Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Šemsko Tankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30242	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. The National Minority Representatives Club, as well as most other clubs, will support Croatia's accession to the North Atlantic Alliance. I remind you, on April 4, 1949, in Washington, 12 countries founded a NATO alliance. Today, the alliance numbers 26 members, and we expect that the number will soon be increased by two more members by entering Albania and the Republic of Croatia. What is important to stress is that of the very act of independence, the Croatian state summit considers the country's entry into NATO an alliance of one of its two fundamental priorities. The second priority is to join the European Union. There's been a lot of talk about some reactions in society. I'd like to remind you of two polls. One was in 2003 when 60% of Croatian citizens surveyed clearly defined Croatia's entry into the North Atlantic. But I'd also like to remind you of another poll a little later when that number fell drastically to only 24%. It was a reaction that the citizens of Croatia reacted to when the arrest of some Croatian generals was indicated at the NATO summit, as well as some talk about the sensitivity of the issue. But Croatia is a democratic country, seeking democratic institutions, and therefore the way the Croatian regiment reacts to certain actions should be heard. The factography says that on 9 July 2008, the NATO accession Protocol signed in Brussels, in order to receive an invitation for full NATO membership on 3 April 2008, and we expect this to happen in April of this year. The Croatian government also sent a proposal to us on 18 March this year, and we are sort of discussing it today. I would remind you all in the Croatian Constitution remember 22 national minorities, 22. Well, in a way, I did some research, so I see the Italians, or Italy was one of the founders of the North Atlantic Union in 1949. The Turks are then listed in our Constitution, and Turkey became a member in 1952. The Germans were also in the Constitution, and Germany became a member in 1955. Hungarians 1999. Czech 1999. Slovenians 2004. Poles 1999. Slovenians in 2004. Poles 1999 and Romanians 2004. So there was a small partnership between the Croatian Constitution and the sayings of those national minorities, and you could see from this brief statement that the countries, the countries of these national minorities, are already members of the NATO alliance. There are also Albanians at the end, because together with Croatia, we expect Albania to join NATO. By completing my brief message, I expect my brief address to soon be Macedonia, and may I also be allowed to tell my home country of Bosnia along with other countries of the former Yugoslavia to find its place in membership, both in NATO and in the European Union. We support and welcome this historic act, which is Croatia's entry into NATO alliance and soon the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30243	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, the Honorable Representative and Vice-President of the House Josip Frisčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30244	Dear Vice President, Ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let me welcome you and I to the Croatian Peasant Party Club. Surely in a moment, in a day, in a debate that for generations now, but as has already been said and generations to come has an extraordinary significance. Because few countries have gone through such a short period of time as we did in Croatia. A few generations have passed, but a lot of things have made us more clear and we know how to find specifics in which way and how. Because after the Homeland War, after so much desire, desire and final achievement that we have our own country after everything that has been waiting for us since the restoration, the return, the restoration of a broken economy, the improvement of social opportunities, the care of all those who have suffered, we have certainly set ourselves, the new goals are set, and these two dominant, are the leading NATO membership and membership in the European Union. This first one can actually be realized in a few days, and I believe that even for the realization of the second goal, it will not be years, but months. I'm sure we've heard a lot about this and talked a lot about it. Because whatever or almost whatever topic she touched, we came back and went towards this issue. If it was a matter of citizens' trust with politicians, according to the parties, according to the government, the Parliament, etc. It was said, whether the leadership had support on the road, what it was doing, where negotiations and talks were being conducted and what it stands for. And we have to be all happy at this point, because it started with low percentages. Less than 20% of our citizens in the first polls were for integration, because we just created our own country. We made a dream come true. But this speech, this reference, the apparition that our path has opened is also the way of these support and they are certainly growing from day to day and I agree and believe that in this House we will all support the adoption of this law together. Equally so, what is significant and important is a safety component that should not be ignored. Because through silent messages, but also through strong speech in these areas of Europe, many still say that borders are not permanently secure and that they do not recognise them as such. And that's why it's extremely important, because in my opinion, the crown of all these efforts, conversations, agreements, meetings, receptions, some of them will say lobbying, was last year there a few of us in the square when the leader of the strongest force in the world sent a message to us and to the others be sure, your borders will no longer be touched. If it hadn't been for this time, if it hadn't been for that kind of effort and advocacy, you wouldn't have gotten that message. And what's important to us, too. We have also had meetings with international delegations these days, unlike the countries that first welcomed entry, welcomed reception, and then we have done what is called reform, reconstruction and everything else, we have in very short time, and these are the merits of both the government and the ministry and the president of the state and all those in charge of this sector that has been redecorated because we have formed from the Croatian army which we have started to form in principle anyone who can and has made a contribution to re-establishing that it has become an army whose members may be part of any mission in any part of the world and that this reconstruction is certainly behind us and the need for certain financial resources. We're here somewhere. We're somewhere close to this 2%, but surely there's a lot more to get in the material part, but there's a goal here, and I believe there's going to be both desire and understanding and strength to realize and to realize. And that is why the Croatian Peasant Party club, as I said, will support the adoption of this law and Croatia's accession to the North Atlantic Treaty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30245	Thank you. The clubs have finished the debate. Our own independent representative, the esteemed Dragutin Lesar, remained. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30246	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Confirmation of the North Atlantic Treaty is the final phase and Parliament's final decision to join NATO. I have to note with surprise that this bill came into the parliamentary procedure at the last minute, and by emergency procedure, obviously with the great connection to the fact that tomorrow is the last day of handover of documents in Washington because of a conference, or assembly that begins on 3 April where Croatia is expected to be a full member. Croatia's government could have sent the bill to the procedure before, not waiting for acts of ratification of the other members, but apparently the government knows why it was waiting for the last moment. As I announced in one debate 2, 3 weeks ago and told the Slovenians about the ratification of Croatia's NATO entry will be easily and quickly broken because the negotiating skills of Washington compared to Brussels are far more convincing, firmer, stronger and arguments are used differently just to be the same. And that's what happened. So the Slovenian ratification came into effect. However, what concerns me is the fact that we are interpreting this bill as really necessary or enough is an ordinary majority for its adoption, and I am convinced that, when voting on this law, Article 227 should apply. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and that means two-thirds majority. In this debate, I would like to remind you of the debate in this House, as well as my debate when we discussed and adopted the Agreement between Croatia and the United States on the status of the US military and civilian components in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. You remember that even the initialling of the agreement was made without the knowledge of the president of the state, that he waited long, long after that in the government to be delivered to the Parliament with a considerable delay. The military and civilian components of the United States of America have sovereignty over Croatia, not vice versa. I will not explain and repeat the reasons because they are beyond the reach of all bodies of the government, all possibilities of sanctioning control and control. Another thing I want to remind you of is one fact, and when we talk about North Atlantic integration and I wonder why they want us in NATO, but not in the European Union? It's about colleagues and colleagues. It's about the same partners. The same partners decided on Croatia's entry into NATO, which are the same partners that should decide on Croatia's accession to the European Union. They need us in NATO for our troops on missions because we're welcome because we're not being replaced. Prešern, a Slovenian poet, wrote in his own time how Austrian emperors speak to God in Spanish, each other in German, and with horses in Slovenian. I would paraphrasise and say that around European bureaucracy talks to each other today in English, about Croatia's entry into the European Union in Slovenian, and that negotiations and talks on Croatia's entry into NATO were conducted in Croatian. They pat us on the shoulders and praise us for all our mouths, especially there, and especially when we send new contingents of our troops to the NATO mission. And that's good. However, why do these same partners not share the same assessment of Croatia and the advantages of Croatia in the area of European negotiations? And the third question, in Croatia, was whether a referendum would be called after Croatia's entry into NATO. If we accept the fact that it is not necessary under the Constitution, I also remind you that among the partners, there were now parties that required a referendum before the elections in the election campaign. Civil society in Croatia also asked for a debate on the referendum and proposed that the Parliament call a referendum on the subject. The way that this debate was rejected, the arguments which the requests were rejected were not appropriate, especially because it was claimed that the political elite had to take part in historical responsibility upon itself and make such a decision. Among those who sought a referendum and who tried to open the debate, for me legitimate and legal, was the majority of those who went to the referendum and voted for Croatia's entry into NATO. I signed the initiative, I would go to a referendum and vote on Croatia's entry into NATO. However, the possibility has been denied and taken away from that part of the citizens. And that is why, like these two facts that I have cited, the agreement with the Americans, but the behaviour of those same partners in the other area, when they claim to us on the one hand with the right to co-operate with the International Court of War Crimes, but at the same time challenge the right to use the International Court of Justice in The Hague to resolve a bilateral issue, with my vote against this law, today I will represent the part of the Croatian citizens and voters, who were ready to share part of the responsibility with the political elite and make a decision to join NATO in the referendum. I can see that I will be lonely, and in particular those citizens were right when they expressed doubts about how the political elite decided, the ruling political elite interpreted that 39 votes in the Croatian Parliament were sufficient for the adoption of this law, because it is proposed by the simple majority. So if that is the case, if even your Rules of Procedure which says that such topics and such laws in the House are decided by a two-thirds majority, we are not ready to apply ourselves, then it is evidence that the part of the citizens who requested the referendum deserves at least one vote against this law after today's debate and vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30247	Thank you. No more reported for this point. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Probably Friday, but we'll see about that deal between clubs. That concludes the first item of the agenda. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda. ... Right, sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On behalf of the promoter, Defence Minister Branko Vukelic is the final honorary. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30248	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of Parliament's MPs, gentlemen of Parliament. Here, allow me, in the end, to address this Croatian Assembly with great satisfaction both as Minister of Defence and as a member of the Government with a few sentences. Today, when a debate on an important law has been concluded, the Law on Confirmation of the North Atlantic Treaty, hence the law that creates and defines the entry of the Republic of Croatia into NATO. Through the debate, I would say a lot of wrong information or some information that didn't stand, so I would now take advantage of this opportunity to give more accurate information, and I believe here a week ago we had a visit to the Defense Department of Parliament's Defence Committee. A simple conversation and information, I believe, through the work of that committee, will raise the level of information of all of us here and in the Parliament, when it comes to defence issues in order to have accurate facts and data. In fact, when it comes to the budget, I will first mention it immediately, that budget for 2009. The defence ministry is 5, nearly 7 billion kuna, with a rebalance to come will be reduced to about 5.1 or 5.2 billion. Therefore, is this a budget that ensures the normal functioning of the Armed Forces but ensures that all the partnership goals we have outlined for ourselves are met when it comes to joining NATO. And right away I want to say, 2% for the defence budget is the goal and the recommendation for members of the NATO Alliance, but not the obligation. And many countries today that are members of the NATO Alliance do not have 2% of the JDP defence budget. Therefore, it is not our necessity, it is not our obligation, it is our goal to pursue. We will come to the level of last year's participation in JDP's defence budget, which is about 1.6. 1.7%. Then, also clearly here, I want to say that when it comes to procedures, I will not talk about it, but I will say that the much bigger and more important message that we are sending today to our partners in the NATO alliance is the views of all parliamentary parties and the support that I believe will be great, at the vote when this law is passed. It is a clear signal of the will and will of all political parties. And polls that speak and over 60% support for the citizens of Croatia's entry into NATO talk about citizens' support. Therefore, the question of the referendum being asked by some people was the question of spending money, in order to confirm what we are all through both political parties and through the public said and said, and this is the goal and desire for Croatia to be a member of the NATO alliance for many reasons that have been spoken today. I also want to say that Parliamentarian Milanovic said there is no more government, so unfortunately I can't remind him because he's not here anymore, that I'm still a member of the government as a minister representing the government when it comes to this law, and the Prime Minister with tight leadership had to go to talks with the unions. You all know well that the talks are under way and it's about budget rebalancing. So I think it's the same important assignments. And also to those who listened, and the vast majority here listened well to the Prime Minister when he gave the opening explanation then they heard that in 2000 he mentioned as an important year for Croatia's entry into NATO alliance. So it's Croatia's entry into the Partnership for Peace. He also mentioned in 2002 when we started and began to participate in the membership action plan as one of NATO's programmes. Therefore, it was mentioned. That may not have been heard by one who spoke to his colleagues and colleagues in the assembly benches, such as Mr Milanovic. But that was also said of the event today, which we are talking about or tomorrow when all these ratified decisions will be forwarded to Washington, and the consequences of many people are due, many people of all governments and all of us who have worked in Croatia for all of these two decades to reach this goal. And that's clearly said and I'm making it clear here again and again. When we talk about joining the NATO Alliance, then surely it's a special pleasure for me to talk about what the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces themselves is about when we watch the organisation of the NATO alliance. The truth is that the NATO alliance is not a military alliance and is not exclusively a military alliance, but it is certainly a security situation that improves as much as Croatia is a full member. That all those reforms launched in the armed forces are really very important for Croatia as a whole and for this region in which Croatia is located. And I, as defence minister, want to express my gratitude here, especially to many people before and today in the Armed Forces, who have made a great effort to implement all those reforms that were important in that particular defence sector. NATO is not just a defence, it's not just an army, we all agree, but NATO is in the good part in the operational sense and armed forces. Therefore, the Croatian Army has done a great deal in the past 6.7 years to implement all those processes that were to be carried out. And what makes me particularly happy and I think that we all need to point out more often is that partners in NATO are telling us in every meeting that Croatia enters the alliance as one of the best prepared new members at all. Best prepared on all issues, this is evidence and reforms we have also implemented in the Armed Forces, but this is proof of all the processes and reforms that Croatia has generally spent in society and I think we can really be satisfied with. What I want to also mention is the benefits of Croatia's NATO entry are indeed multiple, not only to increase the political importance of the country, not only to strengthen the economic situation, to get secure, secure guarantees, but also to ensure that this part of which we are specifically talking about is the efficiency of the Armed Forces, to develop advanced, civil military relations etc. And what is important in this situation, the economic situation in which Croatia and not only Croatia are located, but the whole world as well, is that we also expect to benefit from NATO's funds for military infrastructure that Croatia must edit whether it is a NATO member or not. We're in the process... due not only to entering NATO alliances but also to the state in which the infrastructure is, therefore, inherited states, where money was invested is neither in the infrastructure nor in the means used by the armed forces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The annual budget of NATO's investment programme is around 640m euros and we are counting on how to attract around 40m euros in our work and preparation programmes over the next few years. So these are the funds that should enter Croatia. By entering Croatia into NATO, Croatian companies also gain the right to participate in NATO's competitions, and this is not a meaningless thing, but in this assembly there have already been speeches and I think it is one effect that should also not be ignored especially in this situation where Croatia is, I repeat all countries and our economy. Therefore, I would also like to say on this occasion that the Ministry of Defence will, therefore, do everything possible to ensure that this upcoming integration of Croatia into NATO is implemented as quickly as possible, as efficiently as possible and to all clubs, to all parties, to all of you here in the Parliament, thank you for the support that you have all given through your discussions to this agreement, to this law, or to Croatia's membership in the NATO alliance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30249	Thank you. I'm closing the debate now. And in the meantime, we held consultations, the clubs agreed that the vote on that item would be today at 12 o'clock, so I ask the clubs to ensure the presence of representatives in the assembly. This concludes the debate on the final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the North Atlantic Treaty.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30250	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are now about to interrupt the debate on this item of the agenda and move to a vote on the final draft law confirming the North Atlantic Treaty. Please determine the quorum. Please engage. Put the key on. According to the counter, there are 12 3 MPs and MPs, so that one part either had no keys or did not include it. Then what, do we want to vote manually? SDP club, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30251	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We'd like to hear again how we vote, usually by majority or qualified majority, two-thirds? How do we decide on Croatia's entry into the North Atlantic Alliance that the Croatian public knows? Most of which is enough for the adoption of the Veterinary Convention with Bangladesh or worthy of decisions of historical proportions for Croatia? How do we vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30252	In Articles 225, 226 and 227. The rules of procedure have been laid down by the majority, with the majority of decisions being taken. In order to vote by a two-thirds majority, which were some initiatives and proposals, it is necessary to address the situations provided for in Article 227. The Rules of Procedure are two-thirds of all MPs. The Assembly shall adopt the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and shall amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, confirm international agreements which confer powers under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, adopt the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia or take decisions referred to in Article 7(2) and Article 8. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall adopt constitutional laws governing the rights of national minorities and shall decide to initiate the procedure for determining the special responsibility of the President of the Republic. The Government has proposed as a constitutional basis for the adoption of this Act on Confirmation of the North Atlantic Treaty, Article 13(5). The Constitution, not paragraph 13, 9 and not paragraph 2. The Constitution. I have no authority or ability to arbitration and determine and determine with which most of these decisions will be made. And the majority of these decisions are made, if someone holds that they are not made by qualified majority, there is a legal way to do so. Please, let's go to... Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30253	Very briefly, therefore, it is clear how this High House will vote, it is clear how the SDP will vote, how will HDZ vote, HSS... This is about respect for Croatian institutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is a historically important decision. Now you've read us the Rules of Procedure, you shouldn't have. All that is important in the Croatian Constitution and there it says that organisations, international organisations that are delegated certain powers to the Croatian Constitution, that membership in such organisations, in the Croatian Parliament, is confirmed by the two-thirds majority. If you do, and if we believe that Croatia's NATO entry does not have that weight, then we can make that decision by any majority, and also, tomorrow, hypothetically decide to leave NATO by any majority. It's unserious, but it's your pleasure, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30254	It is disputed whether, doctrinal and disputed whether the powers exercised by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are given to international... 0 that will be settled in this vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Who's in favor of confirming the Act of Confirmation of the North Atlantic Treaty? The result? I find that with 119 votes for and one... against the adopted, adopted Act on the Confirmation of the North Atlantic Treaty. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30255	And we move to another point, which is: - Report on the course of the negotiations process of the Republic of Croatia – The European Union during the Presidency of the Republic of France to the Council of the European Union (The period from 1 July to 31 December 2008) Carrier: Government of the Republic of Croatia; The Government submitted this Report on the basis of statements by the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on joint action in the process of membership negotiations in the European Union. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Vladimir Drobnjak, Ambassador and Deputy Head of the State delegation for negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30256	Thank you very much, ladies and Mrs. Representatives, it is an honor to have the opportunity to address you. A report on the course of the Presidency of the Republic of France to the Council of the European Union in the second half of last year and on our negotiations during that period has been received and I think it is substantial and large enough that I can now say only a few sentences, I think there is no need to add anything else. What I'm trying to say is this. We have made further progress during the French Presidency of the European Union in our negotiations. We opened two and temporarily closed the additional chapters, five chapters. And by doing so, we have placed the total number of open and closed chapters on 22 open of which seven temporarily closed. Can we be fully satisfied with that result? We cannot because this result does not reflect everything we achieved last year in the negotiations, but unfortunately because of the blockade of Slovenia, the number of open and closed chapters is less important than it would have been if that blockade had not occurred. So if it hadn't been for us at the end of next year or at the end of the French Presidency of 30 open and 9 closed, today that number would have been even higher because we also prepared additional chapters for opening and closing. However, we can still be satisfied with what has been achieved, a team before, even if the chapters I mentioned have been blocked, all the work in them has been done and they are as far as we are concerned and as far as the European Commission is concerned, and 26 Member States can open or close within one day, it is only necessary to move the blockade. When it comes to specific chapters, therefore, during the French Presidency, we opened negotiations in two chapters. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "Freedom of movement of goods" and Chapter 5. Public We have closed in the following chapters: Chapter 20. Entrepreneurship, Industrial Policy, Chapter 30. External relations, Chapter 7. "The Law of Intellectual Property", Chapter 10. "Information Society and the Media" and Chapter 17. "Economic and monetary policy". The features of the French presidency are three intergovernmental conferences. So for the first time, the number of international conferences during one presidency was greater than two and the fact that the French at the very beginning of their presidency decided at an intergovernmental conference, the best confirmed determination and I would say even the alliance with which France joined its presidency when it came to negotiations with Croatia. In addition, it should be mentioned that during the French Presidency, the European Commission adopted on 5 November 2008 "the fall package of enlargement documents", part of which is also part of the European Commission's communication to the Council and the European Parliament entitled "The Enlargement Strategy and the main challenges of 2008-2009.", and in this documentation, the most important document for us is the Road Map, which lists the chapters through a particular diagram with the aim of closing all chapters by the end of 2 009. Finally, I would like to particularly highlight the good, active and encouraging Presidency of the Republic of France when it comes to Croatian negotiations. And on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I use the opportunity to thank the French Republic for its active and truly sincere support to Croatia during the negotiations. That's it. I don't think there's any need to explain the report detailing everything that happened during the French Presidency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30257	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then we cross over, I open the debate. They're the first clubs. It's the Croatian Democratic Community's turn. Dear Representative Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30258	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Deputy Head of State delegation, Chief Negotiator, Col. Drobnjak. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So here is, as Mr Drobnjak said, a detailed description of the situation in the negotiations and progress in the negotiations, but also the general progress in preparations for membership in the European Union in certain areas during the second half of 2008 at the time of the Presidency of the French Republic of the Council of the European Union, is very detailed in the document that we received from the Government. A key obstacle to speeding up the negotiation process in this period has turned into a key obstacle to the continuation of the negotiations in general, given that Slovenia has disabled the opening and closing of almost a third of the negotiating chapters. Here is the fact that such a situation is currently talking about the fact that, just yesterday, an intergovernmental conference was scheduled to be held on 27 March, so the latest conference on negotiations during the Czech presidency. So in that atmosphere and with these restrictions, the negotiating group and the government worked in the second half of last year. Nevertheless, and thanks, among other things, to the great engagement of France as the chairman of the Council of the European Union, it can be said that Croatia has made further progress in the negotiations during the observed period. This progress is less visible when looking at the number of chapters discussed at three intergovernmental conferences, while when it comes to progress in meeting the set criteria, it can be said that the part that was primarily dependent on our side is well done. In addition, the Republic of Croatia has been focusing on all aspects of the negotiating process, with the principle that both the speed and the quality of the negotiations are equally important, and has therefore worked alongside the several aspects of the negotiation process, to bring legislation into line with the acquis and all other preparations for membership, such as implementation of commitments from the SAA, further improving the management of pre-accession funds, implementation of reforms, etc. The process of joining the Republic of Croatia into the European Union may have entered its most complex phase, and the very statistics of open and closed chapters do not give a complete overview of the achievements in the accession process. Therefore, in the assessment of overall progress during the French Presidency, it can be said that this shift is significantly greater than what can be estimated by figures from intergovernmental conferences. However, the real picture of the success of the negotiations so far must be put in a broader context. First of all, the context of the significantly changed political circumstances in which negotiations are being conducted with the Republic of Croatia, as well as the additional content, technical and weather burdens of the whole process. As a result, the Croatian Democratic Community Club holds that progress has been made during the reporting period and will support the report in question. Finally, we hope that our negotiators will finish their work in this year, and the prerequisite for son qua non to happen is that with the unquestionable commitment of the Republic of Croatia to meet all the criteria related to the opening and closing of the chapter, which is in itself a complex business, they finally separate two issues that should not even be related, which are the bilateral issue of the disputed border line between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia, and the multilateral issue of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. We hope that we will soon see that this is happening, that not only will this delayed intergovernmental conference be held, but also several others, and that at the time of the Czech Presidency will actually be done most of the work that we have left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30259	Thank you. It's SDP's turn. Dear Representative Neven Mimica and Vice President of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30260	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the course of our negotiations in the accession of the European Union during the French Presidency, during the second half of last year. At first, I would like to commend the way France chaired the European Union, because it was quite visible that this presidency was done in a way that shows a marked political will, a distinct political ambition for the European Union to achieve a number of objectives that would strengthen its position in the global world. They say that each European Union presidency is as good as the chairman-in-Office can deal with topics, with events that were not pre-scheduled in the above-mentioned priorities of the presidency. And the French presidency in this regard is indeed we have a series of unforeseen and extremely difficult and complex events ahead of us. There was a problem with Russia's intervention in Georgia, there was a problem with the start of the gas energy crisis, there was a problem with the start of a financial crisis that was pouring into the real sector, there was a problem stopping the process of ratification of the Lisbon Treaty due to the Irish referendum. She had a problem stopping the EU enlargement process due to the Slovenian blockade of Croatian negotiations. So a whole series of difficulties that weren't planned before. On this final example, the blockade of Croatia's enlargement process, but also the general process of extending the French presidency, has shown sufficient determination which unfortunately did not result in the deblockation of these negotiations. However, when we return to the report itself, it could be said that it is a summary and systematic document as much as it describes the actual state of the technical part of our accession negotiations. It could be said that it is a standard report that would be absolutely appropriate in a different situation, not in a situation in which our negotiations are practically stopped, not in a situation where this political conditionality has come into marked visibility. Unfortunately, I say here it is not just a normal situation for our, overall atmosphere for our negotiations, and therefore I think that the report should have been written differently, i.e. that it was not only a statistical fact-finding situation and events in the negotiation process, but that it was necessary to make more substantive and political reference and to propose the views of the Parliament rather than merely describe the situation. This report was written in February of this year when it was clear to all that until further Croatian accession negotiations had been stopped and therefore it was very difficult to accept the government's assessment in the report, I repeat in the second half of February 2000 that Croatia, given the circumstances, quoted from the report, made good progress in the negotiation process, and that the accession process entered the final, most complex phase in late 2008. It is difficult to accept that it is the final phase of our negotiations in a situation where only a third of the chapters are closed. It is hard to accept that there is good progress in the situation when negotiations have practically stopped. Because of this, I think that only yesterday's postponement of the intergovernmental conference on Croatia's accession for a month can hardly be interpreted as a positive signal in this direction. It is becoming a problem again that some European Union countries, independently of the Slovenian blockade, are questioning Croatia's co-operation with the Hague prosecutor's office over the so-called "The Hague". artillery logs. It must also not be ignored, and I think it has been neglected in this concept of the report situation that due to the severe economic crisis and the efforts to get out of this crisis as quickly as possible, that enlargement in the European Union itself is losing its place, the priority on that priority scale, and that fatigue within the European Union can be felt more and more strongly. Because of such a conceptual approach I say to me, this report seems to be a real warehouse of missed opportunities. An opportunity has been missed for the Assembly to be informed and to explain to the Assembly the situation in certain chapters, as it is said that some chapters have been closed. It is not subject to any conditions, which means the situation in certain chapters. It's about meeting the criteria without explaining what criteria were set and what was actually done and it's done a lot of things, of course. But there's no mention of what's been done here to satisfy each of the criteria and again what it means for the overall reform process. An opportunity has been missed here in the Parliament, i.e. this report is a reason to define the political position on Slovenia here in the Parliament, and then to give one pair, I would say to a parastate and a pair of political bodies such as a meeting of the prime minister with or all three presidents from the executive authority with representatives or presidents of political parties, so that they are left with the political position on relations with Slovenia and on how to overcome this blockade to be brought to that body instead of in the right place here in the Croatian Parliament. Furthermore, an opportunity has been missed to discuss reforms in the Croatian Parliament along with this report, everything that needs to be done so that negotiations can be done after opening, after opening, after deblocking, to continue successfully. And the opportunity to discuss here in Parliament the real state of negotiations, that is, what's left of that road map, of what needs to be done in certain chapters. There's almost no word in this report, and it should be. The fact is that negotiations have stopped, that we must recognise ourselves that we will probably not be able to finish these negotiations within the scheduled deadlines, and that the key problem is actually the blocking of Slovenia which can, if it continues to cause or simply be an excuse for introducing and additional problems from other countries into the negotiation process. We therefore believe that a special debate should be held in the Croatian Parliament on the state of negotiations with the accession negotiations with the European Union. But not based on this or such and a similar report, but on a report submitted by the Prime Minister on the state and content of the talks currently taking place between Croatia, Slovenia and the European Commission. The Croatian Parliament must know what are the possible options and what is the time frame for raising the blockade, and what will happen to the negotiations and date of Croatia's entry into the European Union if this situation continues over a longer period of time. In this case, what will happen to the road map for the continuation and completion of the accession negotiations? All that is certain is that all MPs in the Croatian Parliament are interested in what they would like to make their contribution as well. The second part of this debate or even a separate parliamentary debate should give a clearer and more transparent picture of how realistically we have made progress in reforms primarily and what we must do to be ready for membership as soon as possible, regardless of the formal state of negotiations. In that sense, we need to stress that we have a huge job ahead of us. Negotiators can only make as much progress as the Government makes in implementing reforms and in adapting, legal gain and its application in practice. And as far as we're concerned, it's a matter of very serious discussion. If we sincerely look ourselves in the eye, or in the mirror, and see the situation realistically, we will realize that we are not standing so well in negotiations and that the current pace would make it difficult to reach the conditions for the conclusion of negotiations without, let alone the current blockade. In fact, we opened 22 negotiating chapters, closed 7, and there remains too much to finish within the scheduled deadline by the end of the year, and even if the blockades were to rise very quickly, there would be about 2/3 of the chapters to close and two more difficult to open, the one about competition and the one about justice and fundamental rights. The heavy chapters will not be closed solely on the basis of adopted laws, plans or just established administrative institutions, but on the basis of concrete application and the sequence of verification processes and application. Let us not be fooled that the negotiations on agriculture or the environment that have not actually begun will be quick and easy. On the contrary, it could be areas where we will not be able to avoid serious problems both in the political and the content of the negotiations. We hear the views and opinions that Slovenia cannot block our reforms, if it can block our negotiations and that is correct. However, our reforms can primarily be blocked by ourselves if we do not seriously accept that we must work on reforms in spite of the blockade itself. Postponing these reforms will also mean delaying the opening or closing of negotiations at the time when they are delayed and thus delaying the date of entry into the European Union. I am sure that none of the MPs in this House would want it and would not want things to take place in this direction, however, ending this debate on behalf of the SDP club, I would say that by missing the opportunity for this report to be a cause for a serious debate, a serious dialogue in the Croatian Parliament and on relations with Slovenia and on negotiations and on reforms, the government has actually missed the occasion and made this report irrelevant. That is why it does not matter whether the Parliament accepts it or not, or takes it into consideration only. It doesn't even matter how members of the SDP club vote on it. What is more important for us is the expectation that we will hold a new special debate on the overall state and perspective and reform and negotiations on Croatia's accession to the European Union in the shortest possible time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30261	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. The first is the distinguished representative Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30262	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here, I must correct the esteemed vice president of the House that opportunities have been missed to inform the Parliament about the details of the progress in the negotiations, namely the criteria and that the opportunity to discuss the real situation in the negotiations has been missed. Namely, my colleague Mimica is a member of the National Committee as well as other colleagues here in the Parliament, and I myself. We on the National Committee, and this is the body of this High House, we are discussing very closely all these issues, therefore it is not possible to talk about such opportunities being missed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30263	Thank you. And we have a second correction to the incorrect assumption. It is the esteemed representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30264	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Mimica incorrectly said that the opportunity for the Croatian Parliament to state its clear position on the Slovenian blockade and on what is happening about the problem of differentiation with Slovenia has been missed. The Croatian Parliament expressed its clear position, an unequivocal position in which your party participated. We expressed that attitude very clearly with the declaration here in the Croatian Parliament, therefore our position is known. The second thing, you said that we were not standing so well in the negotiations, regardless of the Slovenian blockade. That's not true. If the blockade had been lifted, we would have, as the chief negotiator said, opened probably 8, perhaps the 9th chapter we recently brought to a negotiating position and closed a large number of chapters. Therefore, it is not an accurate finding, and unfortunately, given this fact that you are a member of the National Committee, it is truly surprising that you present such untruths.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30265	Thank you. We're moving on with the club debate. Dear Damir Cain on behalf of the IDS club, and then behind it would take a short break and vote, so I ask the representatives to gather. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30266	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Drobnjak, Your Honor, gentlemen of the Parliament. Croatian negotiations, as all my predecessors said, were de facto stopped, blocked by Slovenia's merits, Ljubljana, their Prime Minister, are still irrelevant. Now, whether the Slovenians themselves, whether the Slovenians themselves are in this game, no, against the entire European Union or if anyone else is behind Slovenia, on that other occasion. Clearly, I'm against the fact that territory buys a good neighborhood. Croatians and Slovenians, especially in Istria, are historically directed towards each other, I personally want to believe that Croatian-Slovenian relations are here on this relationship between governments, not because of the people, but politics have come to the bottom and that these relations can no longer fall. They just don't have anywhere else to sink. What am I sorry for, though? I regret the media hysteria that has been at work for the last 15 years and that generations are born and raised in this spirit of impatience, so that today when you ask someone in Slovenia who is their worst neighbor, they are ready to call on the Croats. If we were asked who our worst neighbor is, now it's not the ones that were until yesterday, now it's the Slovenians. And I argue that this is largely the merit of politics and it is also largely the merit of the media. What do you do? That hysteria needs to be reduced, good examples should be highlighted. I claim to have them. Here, CEO of Cimos, Mr. Krasovac moved two production lines from Maribor, Kopra to Buzet. Look out, Buzet with 6 thousand residents is exporting $120 million. It's not a game. 20 grand per capita. Today in Ljubljana is held, as the Honorary Consul of Croatia in Koper told me, Mr. Dimnik... between Croatian and Slovenian businessmen, some politicians, I'm sorry I'm not there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I personally believe that this dispute should be extended in about ten years because we see that political agreement cannot be reached today. I should normally highlight positive examples, not e.g. The Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia when asked if he ever bought a Slovenian product, says he does not remember it or when you ask a Slovenian parliamentarian, so he sends you a message that Slovenian citizens in the Republic of Croatia should not be allowed to spend their summers or to honor us and even harder epithets. What am I afraid of today, though? For Croatia, it has never been slow, at least until now, around the Piran Bay has not been within the political issue. It was always for Slovenia. Slovenians received elections on the issue, but now this can happen in Croatia. that for the first time these local elections are being held on that rhetoric. There's a normal question, how do you get ahead of it? On the other hand, we see that the Government is aware that we will not enter the European Union before 2012. We know that we are simply economically dependent, over-indebted, we have never been more economically vulnerable and... among other things possible homogenize around this Croatian-Slovenian dispute, and I don't think that would be good. Slovenia on the other hand knows that this is the moment when it can get the most, so it will certainly continue to push. Croatia knows it will not be in the European Union until 2012 so there is certainly no one to give in to. At this point, the European Union has far bigger problems, so it will not deal with its members, so it can wait, the citizens will argue, the economy will lose opportunities, and the worst that no one, nor here nor there, will answer. It's clear if you're asking for me what I stand for? I agree that the dispute is being extended or that it normally ends up in The Hague, Hamburg or I don't know where else, and I'm sure any such decision this House would have taken. Although I fear that after the local elections, maybe the government or politics will change their commitment and eventually accept Rehn's explanation or proposal. But anyway, let us now release these Croatian-Slovenian relations and say something that concerns us in Istria at the moment most. These are opportunities in Croatian shipbuilding, i.e. the privatisation of "Uljanika". The Croatian ship so figuratively says, from Split, Rijeka, Queen, Trogir, it is built and sold somewhere for $53 million. An oil ship for $116 million. I understand that at this point, the government would rather raise its hands than shipbuilding, perhaps it will, because it is paying 4.5 billion kunas that have been reprogrammed at the beginning of this year. True, Croatian shipbuilding is in order if I am not wrong about 39 ships, but for the first time, it was also mentioned about the cancellations of completed contracts and the construction of ships in Croatian squares or overpasses. And what worries me the most is, although it's being denied in "Oliary", it's supposed to be preparing and canceling orders from six oil ships that were to be built for the Russians, more specifically for "... shipping chimpany" and for which the OMG stands worth $315 million. I want to believe that this information is incorrect because it would mean a fall in orders in May 3 and so much I'm asking this government not to privatise the Oilman. Okay. Someone's gonna say, "We're in a banana," bananas squared. I don't think NATO will help us much either, the Prime Minister has already started talking about bankruptcy. I think someone should be able to handle the conjecture because of these spoken messages. I know the government's resignation won't happen, there'll probably be a reconstruction after the local elections, but I really think we need parliamentary elections. I know there are no new people, but you can find new policies, not on the street, but clearly in the elections. On the other hand, why does Croatia need the European Union? Croatia, unlike some, has never had less sovereignty than this year in 2009, no matter what we join NATO alliance. A country like Croatia that faces serious problems, where the prime minister is talking about bankruptcy, social unrest, trade unions, etc. It can hardly be completely sovereign. It can show its muscles, but the Croatian state is afraid in 2009 to lose its financial, monetary, credit and I do not know what sovereignty. If the country is over-indebted and Croatia is, then we can be blackmailed by second-rate banks. And I don't think there's anyone in this House who warned you about it, like IDS. If you can calm down or settle down, then I'll just remind you that the foreign exchange debt is higher than one year's gross social product, that it is 4 times or 5 times our one-year export today, that the one double that our economy will succeed in this year's charge. And that is why we gentlemen need the European Union, because I also see a certain chance in this European Union. There is no need to cover yourself in the days ahead of us with NATO, but simply try to change opportunities in this space. All those who are in the European Union have such a chance, remained simply nothing. Exactly the European Union is different, it is divided, but not the entry into the European Union and the freezing of any reform, they are not driven because of the European Union, but because of Croatia. With the European Union, we remain with such investments, without the European Union we are losing credit ratings and not counting further. I agree with Mr Mimic when he said that this report was somewhat late, that today it is difficult to be current, because it was written before, in February 2009, and that opportunities in these areas can be changed in just a few days, so that the question is really asked what we are even discussing and what we are voting for. There is no doubt, since it is a European call to this document, the negotiation process between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union during the Presidency of the French Republic to the Council of the European Union for the period 1 July to 31 December 2008 means the time behind us. The IDS will support this, but it would be necessary to open the discussion as soon as possible about the opportunities that hit us today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30267	Thank you. HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30268	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Drobnjak, I'm glad you're here today. We will soon, here in a few minutes as the Croatian Parliament ratify NATO's accession pact. It is interesting that at this point just before we have the ratification of other NATO members and countries, but I have not yet seen in the materials that Slovenia has done so, which sets the deadline for the referendum they have organised. However, the second item is now at today's session of the Parliament, which is the report on the course of the negotiation process of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union during the Presidency of the Republic of France. As someone has already said and used the word too late, given the Slovenian veto that is part of Croatia's negotiations with the European Union, this report is rather groundless. It's about opening and closing chapters. It is said that the French Republic has put forth a great deal of effort in connection with Croatia's accession to the European Union and in connection with the opening and closing of chapters and all other actions necessary for Croatia to complete negotiations with the European Union. I personally do not doubt the well-meaning of France or any other European Union country regarding Croatia's accession to the European Union. But here I am saying, we have to, and my predecessors have spoken about Slovenian to say veto to cut short about our entry into the European Union. And when we look at this report on the negotiating process of Croatia, then we must note here that here on page 3 of this report is the negotiating position for chapter 11. This is "Agriculture and Rural Development". The Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a meeting held on 4 September 2008 and also delivered, in accordance with the procedure of 8 September, to the French President and the General Secretariat of the Council of the European Union, views or as Croatia's access platform, i.e. the Croatian Union, says. When those interested in this chapter and many are particularly interested in the region of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, they ask what the views of Croatia are in the negotiating process with the European Union regarding agriculture and rural development. Then I personally answer as a parliamentary representative, I have no answer to that question. Just before, I consulted with the president of the National Committee on negotiations with the European Union, Mrs Pusic, and I asked her why we do not know the position or platform in connection with this 11. Chapters of vital importance for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, which is of course the future of this region. And why, if I may say so, is a secret. The other day we had counseling in Djakov, about it. Consulting on something we don't actually know. Is it just the Government of the Republic of Croatia or, as someone said here, the political elite, tasked with delivering and negotiating the platform and positions in connection with this or should be involved in a wider circle of institutions, individuals in connection with the platform or the position of Chapter 11. So it is not clear to me that some of the views in these chapters are, and here we have mentioned at the time of this French Presidency that a negotiating position for fishing has also been delivered, then for food safety, veterinary and fitness sanitary policy. Further chapter 27. "Circumstance." All this is what interests, clearly, what interests our people, especially in the region of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema. The answer isn't, and when I say, I ask the president of the National Committee about it, and she tells me that it doesn't come out in public. And I wonder what will happen one day when it is, to say that platform agreed and adopted, and then it will go to the detriment of the citizens of the fifth population of the Republic of Croatia and a fifth of the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which is five of these Slavonian counties that are exclusively related to agriculture, food industry and the processing industry. Therefore, regardless of the relative success, if we can say, in connection with the French presidency, this 6-month period in the second half of 2008, I plead that the public, the Croatian public, and the views of Croatia, and say that there are about 29 in relation to, therefore, the positions or platforms of Croatia that have delivered as a negotiating team to the European Commission, or to the European Union, to find some, to say that they could and to close them. But before closing, to make the general public aware of this and not only of Chapter 11 but also of Chapters 12 and 13 and Chapter 27. If it is a secret and if it is material that only the Government can have at its disposal, I do not know whether the public of work or the secrecy of work is respected in the European Union. I think that, above all, the values of the European Union are the first, and that is the public of work, so please... I will also ask a question written by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to be aware of what is hidden in the platform or in the negotiating positions of the Republic of Croatia in chapter 11 and what is very important for agriculture and rural development, so to Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30269	We're going to continue the debate on wheel two. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go. You who leave the assembly do it with less, with more silence.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30270	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Drobnjak, Chief Negotiator, colleagues and colleagues. Here, the Croatian Parliament made one of the most important decisions in its history two minutes ago, regardless of what we didn't know the rules of the game we succeeded and I hope that there will be no such misunderstandings in the period ahead. Now we continue our debate on another association whose member we want to become in as short a time as possible and allow me to say a few words in front of the HNS club. I would first start from where my predecessors left off, whether this debate on the second half of last year and our successes in that period, in the accession of the European Union, is either groundless or justifiable. Namely, colleagues and colleagues can all be groundless but also justifiably depending on the content of what we are discussing. I can agree that some parts of the report really aren't enough, that maybe some things should be extended and they should be extended and that's why I'm going to stay on it. First of all, I would like to say that this is very important to say that during the reporting period, we have submitted the maximum number of criteria for closing certain chapters, thereby increasing the number of chapters temporarily closed, i.e. ready for temporary closure to almost one third of the total number of chapters. He deserves a clear thanks to you negotiators, all of your associates. I think you've done a good job, and I think we all have to say what's already been said here several times that we should thank the French presidency that was in my opinion and in our assessment if we have to evaluate it in three words then we must certainly say that it was effective, that it was correct and that there was a lot of political will to do the job that stood before us and France and other members of the European Union. What bothers us at the HNS club is something else. Namely, statistics as we have already formally said do not correspond to real progress, because there were 11 additional chapters ready to open, which to close. But we failed to do so even though 26 countries supported us, but one country is not who believed in this report, colleagues and colleagues or not, only mentions one single time, and that in the conclusions, and once again in the brackets. We don't think that's good. We think that it should have been much more detailed to factor and describe Slovenian behaviour in these six months and the consequences of this behaviour. It is no doubt that Slovenia has decided to go firmly and stubbornly with its present position, which is nothing but blackmail, and for this reason it will be necessary to approach the creation of a new or modified foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia and that the Government must inform us of what it intends to do in the shortest possible time, because it is very important for everything that we continue to do together in these benches and decide. What we may be able to object to our negotiators and the people who have prepared this report is only one detail, and that may be the lack of reference to the French initiative that we consider very important. I think you, Mr. Drobnjak, are therefore aware that France has proposed how to solve the Irish problem, in such a way that when preparing the accession treaty Croatia is mentioned, it has given assurance to Ireland that its position will be adopted, or its requirements will be adopted. This would clearly also make the importance of our contract more clear and we think that this proposal was excellent and that this should be clearly mentioned and we hope that some things will be launched in this direction. What should also be said, I said we didn't say anything about the consequences of Slovenian behaviour. Croatian credit rating is down. He's falling. It's going down for the situation we've been brought into. We see how much harder it gets. It is not just a matter of recession, a matter of financial crisis in the world, a question of clearly and the relations of an EU member to Croatia and the clear position we have at the moment. The damages that Slovenia has done with its position are not only per state, but per every Croatian company, per every Croatian family and every Croatian individual. I'm deeply convinced of that. And that should be determined, that should be said no matter how much we don't want to poison relations with Slovenia, but the damages are there. Look, I come from Rijeka and I can't help but say something about the position of shipbuilding in that context. Now try to privatize, sell the shipyard someone illusory, it's impossible. But we need colleagues and colleagues to get some ash ourselves because if we had listened to the European Commission a few years ago, if we had started to restructure a few years ago, the situation would have been different. Therefore, we must be objective that we had to do things differently. Our parents' generation taught us not to leave everything we can do for tomorrow. Unfortunately, some in Croatian politics seem to have decided exactly the opposite. That we can leave everything we can on hold for tomorrow. That's not good, so we have to change absolutely a lot in our behavior. We will accept this report with a note that should have given a number of other data to show the real state and position in which Croatia is at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30271	Thank you. An individual debate, Madam Representative Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30272	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow representatives, head negotiator Mr. Drobnjak. As regards the report itself and the technical section relating to open, closed chapters, various conferences held during the French Presidency of the European Union, it has already been detailed by my colleagues, mainly by my colleague Mimica in the section concerning the presentation of the SDP Club of Representatives, and I would therefore refer to some other aspects of the negotiations on our country's accession to the European Union concerning more of our daily lives. I can't help but rely on the issue of justice and our cooperation with The Hague court. I want to look back at the episode with the so-called. the artillery logs. The question of whether or not they were being guided is not the question I want to deal with, but I want to say it was pretty funny how our government turned out. We don't know if we have those logs, if we don't have them, so we remember that we have them, so we don't know where they are, so we don't know what their number is, so here's just a little bit we didn't give them, etc. We turn out to be unworthy, although this time probably the government didn't want to hide anything, it made a completely different impression. In particular, we need to look at one of our greatest pains, which is the problem of corruption, a problem that is making our way more difficult in every step of our negotiations. The problem I have to say is that I have a feeling that this government is only fighting TV videos and unfortunately obtained in a non-transparent way. And then I can't look back on myself, and especially me coming from Savudrija, to our bilateral problem with neighbouring Slovenia that makes it difficult and blocking our accession negotiations. I want to point out that we are threatened, in some ways I have to say, I can't find another term, a natural and human increase in Euroscepticism. But we who deal with politics and who must be responsible must try to explain to our citizens that there is no conspiracy against Croatia, at least I do not believe in them. I think every country legitimately, even unfortunately once with illegal means struggles for what it considers its own interest. So we must fight for our national interests, and I hope that we will continue to do so, but we must not, at any point, question any relevant political options in Croatia in our European commitment, of which, of course, our citizens in the referendum, I hope that one day we will decide, but we, politics must unanimously support Croatia. I was especially pleased that all of you in Croatian politics were unanimous when it comes to the fact that there are no territorial concessions when it comes to the accession of any association or organisation, as well as to the European Union, especially because some radical political options in Slovenia even the address of my residence are adopted, and I would absolutely not want to join colleagues in the diaspora and I hope that this will never be the case. Therefore, we should continue to build a consensus among all relevant political factors in the country, but not so that responsibility for any potential problems would be shifted and failures transferred to other actors in the political arena, but rather to raise some issues in this country above day-to-day policy and politics, certainly joining the European Union. And here, as we have officially decided earlier on joining the NATO alliance must rise above some daily political level. We must be responsible and it is unacceptable to play ahead of local elections to collect cheap political points for certain politicians and political options on a map of low passions and nationalism. It is unacceptable that various candidates, mayors, mayors, and even our prime minister two around our country's European perspective. I was on some parliamentary stand with my colleagues from Slovenia the other day, and they are calling for some statements from our prime ministers and local politicians who are both expressing some kind of skepticism towards Europe, seeing some kind of conspiracy, two about the reputation of Nobel laureate Ahtisaari as experts in solving crisis situations and our similar skeptics, which our politicians are now pre-electionly declaring at this time. We must therefore be responsible and always keep in mind that the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia will always and forever be neighbours. Therefore, there is no need to generate international impatience, and especially should you have consideration for us who, for some disputed border, live daily a lot of time, who many times pass that line during one day, even where that border really does not need to become an even bigger problem than it is. Many Slovenians are our neighbours, parts of our even family, many citizens of Croatia work there, are educated, are being treated and we do not want to make them uncomfortable to our citizens who live mostly in Slovenia or part of the day there. Let us not make life worse for our fellow citizens. We must, of course, insist on a peaceful and international legal solution to the dispute. Everything goes in our favor, we just have to engage all of our brains, knowledge, expertise, and above all, I would say patience in the peaceful resolution of this bilateral dispute, which, unfortunately, is holding us back in our further accession to the Union. Let's not even make sacrifices, let's not think there's some kind of big conspiracy. We must continue on our path, we must implement reforms for our citizens, we must meet standards and we must, first of all, do some things for ourselves that we say are being imposed on us from Europe. I seriously assume that this delay in the negotiations will continue to be extended for the sake of elections with us, but also for the European Parliament, the new formation of the new European Commission, a little bit for the sake of the economic crisis. Of course, enlargement is now not high on the European Union agenda, but we must continue our work diligently further. Finally, I call again and appeal to all the representatives, all the public figures in Croatian politics, and also the representatives of the government, and in particular the prime minister, I call for tolerance, responsibility to our citizens, and let us not generate European skepticism, warm up low passions, let us not call on national spirits for daily political reasons, because all this can potentiate incidents for whose cause on both sides of the border, there are very many individuals who are looking forward to their opportunity to create unwork and public publicity, and this certainly would not help us on our negotiating path and would not be honored. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30273	Thank you. Two corrections. First Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30274	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague incorrectly stated that Dr Sanader did not question Croatia's European future. Apparently, there was a statement somewhere, that it was written so, that it was questionable about the European future. That's not true. In no statement he made, it cannot be said for our Prime Minister, Mr Sanader, that he has doubled about the European future. Moreover, he is the biggest promoter of Croatia's European future. And secondly, what he was saying, and perhaps you didn't realize, is that Croatia will not trade in its territory. I believe that's the kind of statement you support.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30275	Second correction, Mr. Representative Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30276	Also respected colleagues around your allegations that if you thought that the prime minister was two about the need to enter, he has said countless times that joining the European Union, together with Croatia's entry into NATO, is the greatest foreign policy goals. And there was nothing changing. The prime minister just made it clear and loud, it doesn't matter the time, in context if he's under blackmail, then it doesn't matter when he's going to be. We're not trading in territory. As for relations with Slovenia, he also said countlessly that Croatia and Slovenia are bound by more positive things and friendly relations than this issue is about the lines of differentiation in certain areas. These are the views of the prime minister, so it is not two and it is not true that it is two about the need to join the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30277	Mr. Representative Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30278	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. This report on the course of the negotiation process of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union during the Presidency of France, in fact, may even be overly technical, but there are certain gaps in information. It is said in short about the last screening, the criteria for opening chapters, negotiating positions, the criteria for closing chapters mostly on intergovernmental conferences, but still not all important things are said especially when we are talking about intergovernmental conferences. This is still a report for the Parliament, and it is important that all key problems are detected, absolutely all and listed in the report. For this period, the key problem was the negotiation blockade and time simply is not so that the report is purely technical, as the issue of the Slovenian blockade is part of the overall problem, and therefore this report turns out to be pink. The document discusses the progress of the Republic of Croatia in the negotiations, but there is not a word about missed matters. He's mentioned, i.e. The document also calls for a report on the progress of the Republic of Croatia, and you will see some of our country's problems, which is a problem with the judiciary, still an existing problem on human rights, somewhat less than before, that our economic policy is ad hoc policy, that we have administrative weaknesses, inefficient administration, poor delegation of powers and responsibilities, poor decentralisation, widespread corruption, etc. And these are also important factors for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, and this must also be resolved, not just open and close chapters. We can also say in this respect that we have not taken advantage of all the determination and assistance of France, because if we do not face some of our problems and do not recognize them, there will be no positive shifts in the future. In addition to this report, the parliament is also receiving a report on EU funds, which is also mentioned, in this report. But there is one thing that is unfortunately not mentioned anywhere, and it is time for the Parliament to start talking about it, and this is about the communication policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding the communication of Europe to citizens. You have all seen that we have the growth of eroticism, although over 50% of citizens still support Croatia's entry into the European Union, we have this growth. Now, part of the Eurosceptics in the Republic of Croatia is believed simply, they have their arguments. A part of them simply out of pure ignorance. But we talked about it in Parliament six months ago, even a year ago. So Minister Jandrokovic said something would change, so it hasn't changed. The citizens of the Republic of Croatia must know, if we are to talk about the positive things of the European Union, the example of Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia, the Czech Republic, Slovakia's GDP growth, growth of economic growth plus the growth of international investment, as seen in the growth of the citizens' standard of living. The other thing is, who does this job work for? so the Republic of Croatia does not join the European Union with 150 of us here in the Parliament, through the Government and some state secretary. For the sake of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, they need more of the whole story to be communicated. After all, this House lacks information. Well, last week we were taking the P.Z.E. tag off the agenda. from the Higher Education Quality Insurance Act, because they are marked P.Z.E. He tried to push through something that had nothing to do with harmonisation. So, simply exploiting certain ignorance, not to say that there are still no instruments in this Assembly to monitor the implementation of all P.Z.E. The laws we've passed. Although this report, I say in fact written in one part, technically quite a bit in one part of the shrub, it is acceptable to us, unlike what our colleague told us, which is unacceptable to us, is part of the rhetoric and behavior of Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, where we personally consider it, so I personally and the party thinks that in light of the local elections, there is a lot of government, a lot of work to obtain votes, which, Eurosceptics. I don't understand, I mean, at the end of the day, the government was partly guilty of not being involved in a reduction in the number of Eurosceptics. I've made an effort, so I'd like my colleagues to hear this and I've looked at Prime Minister Sanader's statements in the last 12 years. The man has given several hundred interviews, so it's interesting when you dig up those statements and interviews to see about certain issues of the economy and the European Union, especially that we can say that the man says one thing in the morning, the afternoon of the other, often third night. One says as Prime Minister, the other says as HDZ president. We'd expect the two of them to get in a fight at one point. Then, one thing he says in the Republic of Croatia, and it's quite a strong, solid tone, and something else he says in the European Union, and it's quite so humble. It's co-workers and fellow political deviousness. Now I'm just going to give you examples of the 2007 economy to this day, sentences: "We're going to delete the deficit", "The Guarantee Card," you remember that little, like a little cardboard, what it said, tax cuts. Then what is it, a phenomenal sentence related to the European Union: "We will reach 75% of the average development of the European Union."that's what he said a year and a half ago and it's worth next year, our prime minister. So, pure deception, no way. For the European Union. Here we go and say it. Negotiations are over by 2008, we're a member of 2009. In 2009, our citizens voted in the parliamentary European elections. The 2006 famous sentence... under his Euroscepticism and not membership political bomb, dangerous for Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But then, remember Minister Jandrokovic when he was very infamous, when he had to explain why Prime Minister Ivo Sanader said we would be in the Union in 2005, and then take statements from the '90s. So look at '96, '97, and you see a little different tone. It is only when we are called from Europe for problems both in privatisation and in human rights that the European Union is very aggressively responding. So, of some kind let's say "Eurosceptics" he became the first European of Croatia and today is what? What's true today, now that it's a little bit like this, local elections are coming up, so you need to change your mind a little bit. Last week, the European Union raised the amount of its fund to support economies, sorry, not members of the European Union in the European environment. 50 billion euros, giving more money to the IMF for another programme. Therefore, Croatia may request from the European Union Fund for the assistance of non-members in the neighbourhood certain financial assistance. Then what are we gonna see? By right hand, Ivo Sanader or Ivan Schuker will seek the help of the European Union. And to the left, the same European Union calls for everything and everything because we have local elections coming. This is dangerous for the Republic of Croatia. Most HDZ members, and I've heard it many times, speak of the president as a great leader. The key feature of leadership, colleagues and colleagues is perseverance in defence of attitudes, continuity in attitudes. He was changing it, he was changing his attitudes like, I mean, like how the wind blows. Therefore, this shift and deception only harms the Republic of Croatia. My colleagues and colleagues, at this moment the shift of Ivo Sanader can cause great damage to Croatia and its foreign policy, as well as its involvement in the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30279	Please, please, a little, without throwing away a colleague and a colleague first, without throwing it away, it's not allowed. And my colleague, please, you know what the subject is, is not Prime Minister Sanader's theme. It's not a theme, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30280	Unfortunately, Vice President, when he is in charge of all negotiations, the chief minister, is the main man for Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30281	It's not. The report is under way in the negotiating process of the Republic of Croatia-European Union, please, during the French Presidency, please stick to the topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30282	Here's the last line, the vice president I'm going to end up with right now, and it's tied to the negotiations. If our prime minister gets involved with the European Union this way, he will do damage to Croatia as he did when he got involved in the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30283	Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30284	First, it is incorrect that the prime minister will cause damage to this effect in Croatia in its accession to the European Union because it is he who is the most promoting Croatian interests and I will prove it later in my next speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30285	Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30286	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In his very inspired speech, therefore, he uttered a sentence that was absolutely incorrect when he said that from Europeans, therefore, Mr. Prime Minister became unknowing... And so on and [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, in that part of your exposure, it is incorrect, but that part of your exposure lacks that part of his life he spent in Europe, before he came to Croatia and came to Croatia after the aggression on the Republic of Croatia, so the time when aggression occurred and when Croatia was to be established, so he lived in Austria for 20 years. Therefore, he did not come as a Eurosceptic, however, but rather a man with experience from Europe, and later, of course, as a real politician advocated Europe in everything that was good and, of course, he had attitudes in a certain way abstention towards what it was not. So he simply acted realisticly and responsibly, depending on his role. So now he's prime minister and of course he's prime minister for, the best thing for the Republic of Croatia and that's membership in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30287	Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30288	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I'll use... Some incorrect allegations that have appeared so far in the debate, but above all, I will refer to the report that is before us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, it's quite safe to say yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30289	Just a little colleague, buddy, sorry, sorry. One replica, Mr. Representative Drago Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30290	Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30291	Yes, and I have it written down, but I predicted it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30292	Well, I wanted to, Mr. Mondekar, you said you weren't talking about important and essential things in this report. So I think the fact is also presented here in the report that during the French Presidency, five negotiating positions were handed over on our part. Of which, Mr. Drobnjak is three that are important for food development and production, that is 11, 12 and 13. However, there is little in that report about the fate of those very views. There are few times known in these reports what happens to our negotiating positions to which we teach. And just the report we're getting from the National Committee, and that's the last time I discussed it, I said that this information is even more quality and stronger than what the government is dealing with. On the sidelines, we often find out what is going on and what is the view of these negotiating positions that we are looking for a very large number of exceptions in tax. And that's why it's happening, that's why we have to go fast, and that's why it happens that we have to change certain laws. The final case is this tax code where we change the law because it's on one of our committees, the government's representative said that there's a lot of pressure and we're responding right now, and we're not thinking about what's going on with our productions. I think the objective of the negotiations should be that this Parliament has as much information as possible because there will be fewer of these surprises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30293	Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30294	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, as far as this report is concerned, first of all, we should commend Mr. Chief Negotiator, Mr. Drobnjak and the entire negotiating team and everything the government has done in this process when we are talking about this period of 6 months at the time of the Presidency of the Republic of France, we can say that it really means one progress. We all remember the engagement of France which made it clear that it wanted to open and close as much as possible during that period. We're part of it and we've done it. Two chapters were newly opened, five of them closed. Therefore, real progress has taken place during the Presidency of the French Republic to the Council of the European Union, and in this respect we really must give thanks to the Republic of France for what it did during that period. The fact is that the black cloud has been overrun, so I would say, the Slovenian blockades over Croatian negotiations and today it is burdening the whole process and it is quite clear that without deblocking we will not be able to take those key steps, which is the opening of new chapters and closing already open chapters. But as the main negotiator has already pointed out, I would also like to point out because I am also a member of the National Committee that follows the negotiation process and we are all clear that we would be able to close and open the chapters that remain for both closure and opening. Why am I saying that? Because in most of the chapters that are open, so of those 22, 7 they are transparently temporarily closed, in most of these chapters we have so far met the criteria for closing those same chapters. Therefore, in these chapters, we have largely fulfilled our obligation until the end, so we have implemented the necessary reforms, we have fulfilled everything that was expected of Croatia on this road and in the negotiating process to meet those standards. We did it in the most part, so in most of the chapters that are open and closing criteria we have achieved and in that sense we are ready to quickly, in very soon, very soon, very soon after the deblockation of negotiations to close those same chapters. Just as we are prepared to immediately open the chapters that are left. A few days ago, we brought a negotiation position for the judiciary. We said it was one of the most difficult chapters, but we also brought the criteria for opening the same chapter, adopted and applied it. In this regard, there is only one chapter left that is not simple, but we can certainly make it relatively quick to enter into the negotiation process, i.e. to come to a negotiating position and to continue negotiations in that chapter as well. I am therefore an optimist in the event of a genuine deblockation of Slovenia. We see that recently Mr Rehn himself, who is the Commissioner for the Enlargement of the European Union, has been speaking in a positive sense that yet some progress in these talks between Slovenia and Croatia has been achieved and I hope that he will be both real and realistic and that he will lead to a deblocking of negotiations, because the negotiations really have nothing to do with the border issue. It is clear to everyone in Croatia. This should be repeated for the sake of those who do not know the whole situation, but surely Slovenia should not have solved its border issue with us, so this same dispute was present at the time, so it also entered the European Union, which means that this is no criteria for entry. In addition, the European Commission and all Member States have confirmed that bilateral issues should not burden the negotiating process and should not slow down or block it. Unfortunately, this is due to the fact that the European Union does not have a mechanism to prevent such a non-democratic and non-European behaviour of Slovenia towards Croatia. It's certainly about blackmail, as it was said here. We can make it clear and loud in the Croatian Parliament, because that is the type of blackmail. And in this context, Prime Minister Sanader's statement that we will not trade in Croatian territory is very clear and I think you all support it. After all, a declaration in such an atmosphere was also signed or brought here to the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, it is absolutely certain that this statement reflects the political will and reflects the political views of all of us here in this Croatian Parliament. So I'm surprised that someone thinks such a single statement is questionable and that it calls for some kind of Eurosceptics or some kind of nationalism, etc. It is simply an inappropriate interpretation of such a statement, especially when it comes from the parties that supported the declaration, which speaks in the same way about it. But speaking of how much Prime Minister Sanader has contributed, that is, how much he has not contributed to the process, then I would like to point out that as far as I am concerned, I am really watching Prime Minister Sanader's work and I can say that I am following him in this part of the negotiations on the European Union intensively because I am taking part in the process myself. But what should be pointed out is that Prime Minister Sanader, by his influence in the European People's Party, has actually brought Croatia among the European countries in one way that is very desirable, and this is support for Croatian politics on its way to the European Union. All that has been done in agreement through the European People's Party, when you look at the declarations of the European People's Party in the European Parliament, when you look at the conclusions of the meeting before the European Union Parliament and when you see what the conclusions of the European People's Party are then you will see that we have the greatest support for all of our positions in the Croatian Parliament. It is the European People's Party, which is the strongest group in the European Union, that gives the strongest support to Croatia. If you were you, I'm now telling you as members of the SDP who referred these criticisms during this debate to Prime Minister Sanader, that at least 10% of what you did through your socialist group I'm convinced that today we would have a lot less problems with entering and with the negotiation process. Besides, if you're already talking about Slovenia, then you should have mentioned that Prime Minister Sanader and then Prime Minister Jansa have reached a Bled deal they are still talking about today. When mentioned in the European Parliament, then it is said that the agreement reached by Prime Minister Sanader with Prime Minister Jansa is to be respected before the International Court, that the issue of Croatia and Slovenia's border problem is resolved before the International Court. It is therefore truly surprising that you are thus trying to reduce the role and importance of everything Prime Minister Sanader has done in the past. To accuse him of being a Euro skeptic really doesn't matter. This has to do with the elections, but on your part, by trying to degrade everything that is positively positively done through both the European People's Party and the action of Prime Minister Sanader in this regard. So give me at least a piece of it, we'll all be more content and happy together. I wish I could finally get back on this subject. There was talk here about communication and about not having enough information. I can partly agree with that finding, but in a way to say that we in the Croatian Parliament are not getting enough, but we are getting all the information on the course of the negotiation process, and even the information that is secret we as party representatives are getting on the National Committee. Therefore, no one in this Croatian Assembly can tell us any information is available. That's not true. It's a lie. What we agree on on the National Committee of course is secret, because that's how we agreed to function. But there you have all the representatives of all the political parliamentary parties and don't speak then we're not available information. I therefore truly welcome here the present Mr. Drobnjak, who is very comprehensively reporting to us both on the state of negotiations and on everything that is going on, but of course also on what the negotiating team is doing, which is extremely important, and we are taking part in this ourselves, because we ourselves are giving suggestions on the National Committee on what to fix and how to actually get into the negotiating process. We also bring a negotiating position, we bring a negotiating position and then it is adopted by the Government and it goes to the procedure, so where it goes before the European Commission. Therefore, there are no claims that we do not have enough information in the Croatian Parliament. That's incorrect. I agree that citizens should get more information. But it's about the media, and it's about round tables. We need to do as much as possible to really get information to the citizens. I agree, it concerns every Croatian citizen entering the European Union and that is here after today, I would say on a solemn day when we have confirmed, ratified this agreement with the North Atlantic Alliance that will be the achievement of the second most important political goal I am sure we will have the support of the plebiscitarian Croatian people and that we will enter the European Union because today it is clearly one of the most important priority objectives of the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia and that, with this entry today, it will mean additional security but everything that will mean to the economy, for every Croatian man. I think that, of course, we should point out daily and that we all need to talk about it. Here I would conclude, in the end, that I am of course in favour of this report and I would once again commend the work of the main negotiator, the entire negotiating team, the Croatian Government and all those who have done an extremely large amount in this negotiating process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30295	Thank you. A few corrections, one replica. Mr. Representative Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30296	Your Honorary colleague, part of your debate is below each level, and no one in the SDP has said...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30297	Thank you very much. Just a moment, a colleague of Mondekar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30298	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30299	Just one moment. Don't be insulting to the MPs. This observation that the debate of the MPs is below each level is offensive, so I warn you, I do not warn you, but I warn you to stick to your order.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30300	Vice-President, you are free to give me a warning because you have not responded to that statement that the SDP minority for Europe has not given anything for Croatia's entry into the European Union. No one told the territory of this party to trade. Nobody! But what we clearly said was that it was the prime minister who bid the most on dates and led to the problem. And as for how much EPP stands next to the Prime Minister, we can see that it's slowly changing and changing...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30301	Correction not comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30302	While politicians, while PES as a leftist organisation that has been in its membership and Mr. Freedom from the beginning has been helping Croatia when the EPP sometimes does not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30303	But you see, gentlemen and ladies, the debate is on the report during the negotiation process, Croatia and the European Union during the Presidency of the French Republic for the period from 1 July to 31 December. So, it goes beyond that, it enters into debates about the role, the responsibility of the Prime Minister, into different times and periods all together. That doesn't have a wider subject. Don't give me a bigger topic. It is once measured by an archbishop that something is a broader topic when certain political messages are being sent. And when he turns his attention another time to stick to the subject, then he complains about why he's not sticking to the subject. Then when political messages are not answered, they want to be broadcast. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here's the next correction to the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30304	Thank you very much. I will correct the incorrect allegations by my colleague Matusic, who said that the SDP did at least 10% of what the HDZ did in the International Community so that we would be in the European Union long ago. That's absolutely incorrect. But unfortunately for this government and HDZ, everything that is not going well, and now in Croatia everything is not going well. It's not the HDZ and the government that are responsible, it's someone else's responsibility. I'll tell you, Mr. Matusic, that SDP made 110% with this government wouldn't be enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30305	Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30306	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll fix it, I'll try to correct three incorrect allegations, so as long as we get to the time in which it's scheduled. So, the first incorrect quote was Mr Matusic when he spoke in the context of Prime Minister Sanader's and former Prime Minister Jansa's co-operation on the Bled Agreement. Given Mr. Jansa's reaction to that agreement, I think that deal with Bled has faded a little because he obviously doesn't remember what they agreed anymore, so that deal was obviously not so firm. As regards the second allegation and role of the European Socialist Party in accession negotiations, of course, Croatia. I would like to remind you that Mr Freedom, who is clearly much more than some of the other members of this national party, supports the Croatian Socialist Party and I do not think that the European Socialist Party does not support Croatia's entry into the European Union to the extent that the European People's Party does. And what Mr. Matušić said about the European regiment party is what I'm just taking as their shortcut to the EP for HDZ and Mr. Sanader. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30307	This is an EPP correction. I can hear you under your voice. Replica Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30308	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I had to give the replica to my colleague Matusic, and I must confirm that Mr Matusic said exactly that the SDP could have done more through his group in the European Parliament. Can I watch where I want or do I have to watch where the SDP tells me to? But I like to watch you. Well, I guess that's what I'm right about.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30309	We'll talk about that later on about the smell of watching,
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30310	I'll do it again. Mr Matušić specifically said that SDP could have done more and not talked about European Socialists, but talked about SDP. And what someone said about Janša's deal with Bled faded, they can look at Janša's website on the Internet, and they'll see what it says. It must also be said, here I would say in this replica that this government and HDZ party have not changed their policy towards the European Union. In the European Union, some want to change the ones on which the European Union was created. The European Union has come into respect for the rights and now one member of the European Union wants to change that, and also Prime Minister Sanader and the Croatian Government and we all in the Assembly here, including the opposition, are committed to respecting those basic principles, which is why the European Union is established and there is no room here for any policy change towards the European Union. And how do we know? Since the 1990s, since Croatia's independence, we have all advocated Croatia entering the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30311	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30312	Well, thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is true that I did not talk about European Socialists, but I said about the SDP that did not do what HDZ did to the European People's Party. That's a fact. So I did not criticise the work of European Socialists, but the work of the SDP in European integration had not done enough, or almost nothing in that sense, because if it had done as much as HDZ and Prime Minister Sanader through the EPP, then surely the role, or the position of Croatia today, would have been much better if they had done so. But you told your colleague exactly, they didn't do it. As far as Janša is concerned, the agreement remained and recorded whether Mr Janša wanted it or not, it remained recorded in the media, in the media space and remains recorded and we know well what was being agreed then because if he did not, he would not be mentioned today in a statement by the European Parliament or by Mr Rehn. And the third thing, when you talk about that, it was said here that SDP wasn't for trading territory. I will, however, remind you of what happened with that agreement that did not end in glory, which is the Racan-Drnovšek Agreement. I'll remind you, though, I'll remind you not to say anything that doesn't stand and that's not true. And thirdly, when you talk about Eurosceptics, you could see one study in which it is clear that there are many more Eurosceptics in the SDP, and even more in the HNS, and least in the HDZ. He's the most Eurofil in the course of his research. You could've checked him out. That I think Ivo Pilar, some research was published in public. So there is at least Eurosceptics among HDZ voters. So then reconsider your policy towards the European Union while you are already criticising the Croatian Democratic Community, then review your views, your policy and your communication with your voters and with those you address.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30313	Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30314	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Chief Negotiator. I support this report, I think it's good. I think that in these three years the accession negotiations are the Croatian institutions, so the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Government achieved far more on the path of European integration than can show naked statistics and numbers. It is true, however, that 22 chapters of which 7 were provisionally closed have been opened during the French Presidency in 2 and have been provisionally closed in 5 chapters at three meetings of the Intergovernmental Conference on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. We expected a lot more. The end of the trip was supposed to be bigger, clearer, more visible, but the signals we received from Brussels, Prague, in that sense, were encouraging, but here we know why progress was not what we expected during the French Presidency. There has been a negotiation blockade by our neighbours and I would like to repeat here what everyone else wants, but I really think we all want in the Croatian Parliament. We want to make it clear that we are on the same path, on the same political path as we were two years ago, three years or five years ago, that today we want members of the European Union to respect those rights that had other countries that entered the European Union, so all 12 countries that entered the European Union before us had the right to have bilateral problems that could not be the subject of negotiations with the European Union. We're only looking for the same rights and nothing else. So we want the same treatment as the other members. We also accept Mr. Rehn's mediation group, but we want this mediation group to have its mandate, so it can't draw the limits. We're asking you to go to the International Court. I would like to remind that the framework when the negotiations started that within the framework of the negotiations was stated that the disputes that could arise could be settled at the International Court of Justice in The Hague. So we just want to implement what the European Union itself has decided. I would also like to say that it is not good to have on such an important topic as joining the European Union, especially now that we are under the European Union and the European Commission, that this issue is politicised and that here and because of the next elections and attacks by the prime minister, it is unargumented, incorrect to get some points, to attack the Government. The prime minister, when a blockade took place together with the main negotiator, with the National Committee, agreed that all actions meant all reforms to go on, to work both in the parliament and in the government and on the negotiating team and on the National Committee as if there were no blockades. This means that the moment the blockade is removed, that one big, big, can be called booming, in the opening of the chapter to eventually complete the negotiations this year. I'm hoping it might happen next month that the blockade will come off and we can finish the negotiations. And I think you should live in such a hope, so think positively. It is not good to use such an important topic for politics. Today we can be happy and satisfied that we have ratified in the Croatian Parliament the accession of the NATO Alliance, that early next month we will become a member of the NATO Alliance and that one main goal of Croatian politics will be met, the others may come a little later, but we should be patient and we should not discuss important topics like this. We have our issues for bickering between parties, other topics that are our internal themes, and it would be good for them to compete here, not what is now in the focus of European policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30315	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30316	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In most parts, I would agree with my colleague Zubovic in this section when he spoke about the need not to use these topics for daily political bickering, to upset low passions and others. And I think that's how it's supposed to work. And if any of us are unnecessarily harsh statements by Prime Minister Sanader, then you understand that not in terms of daily political events, but in terms of improving Croatia's position in the European Union, because probably statesmen in the European Union don't listen to the ears of Croatian voters for local elections, but good. What we could actually conclude from all of this could come down to that one old sentence, which is that we live and do as if the blockade were going to be 100 years, and we're getting ready to download and align the laws as if we were going to join the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30317	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30318	Well, colleague, all European statesmen know exactly the views of Prime Minister Sanader. Prime Minister Sanader also often communicates very often with European prime ministers and European foreign ministers. And it's not necessary, here you said, like me, I agree, and then you did do a little politics after all. I'm sorry that, and now you're still laughing so well, all happy and satisfied, aren't you? There, your brothers will be happy that you've been able to plant something. But it's always revealed.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30319	Thank you. And we still have one application, and that's the esteemed representative of Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30320	Mr. Vice President, thank you for giving me your word. I welcome Mr. Drobnjak, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's what I'm learning with my work, which is what they say, so I learned that it's better to give the application as soon as possible, because then you get as much material as you can say, of course, assuming you didn't prepare the report in advance. And in the Croatian Parliament, it seems impeccable to make a referendum in advance, because it is mostly not about what the subject is, but about this topic that benefits many others. So I'm going to talk a little bit about each other, but I would start with one finding anyway, I think worth the attention, which is that the report that was submitted on the work, on the negotiations, on Croatia's accession to the European Union during the Presidency of the Republic, is anyway commendable. Not because the report is good, but because the report shows how much it has been done, how much it is done and how it is done and how it is actually joining the Croatian European Union, it happens in a way that it is currently an obstacle and there are no people we know to exist, but it is done as if they are not there. And what my colleague Bauk also said and agreed, I agree with him. Of course, we move forward, as if that obstacle would disappear one day and we would be able to do everything we had to do in time. I could comment a lot on what's been said here. Two things may be more important to highlight, a comment of some statements that once were in one way, today in another way. Of course, political circumstances are changing, so statements adapt to political circumstances, because at least in politics they can't always ride on one of these same, the pace of rhemutantum changes. If we remembered that even after Tito was Tito, we could see that it wasn't, that things were changing. Who once thought Croatia would be at a time when she swore for Yugoslavia. Well, there's still something else we've experienced. I don't think there is much need to defend the president of our government, which is the head of all the policies of Croatia's accession to the European Union, from the beginning of the basic idea to today. The only thing I can regret is there's not enough information, I agree with that. There is not enough information about how our prime minister in Europe and in the world is generally appreciated, as it is spoken of, and how much he has done to his performances and through the mere parties, as well as personal contacts and his persuasion and his performances and others have convinced him to do as much as possible for Croatia to move forward. Their personal experience in the impression of Croatia and the possibility of Croatia's accession to the European Union can be spoken through several diplomatic meetings and meetings I attended in Paris and Brussels, as well as many meetings that occur in Croatia and in Croatia where I have opportunities to be present and heard what international diplomats are talking about the position of Croatia, the problems of Croatia's accession to the European Union, as well as the problems of the European Union. The situation in which we met with the Slovenian blockade in the negotiations, she found the European Union in an illustration that is at least close to me, about illegal construction. Many countries do not have laws that regulate those who are illegally building because they cannot imagine that such a thing can happen. There is probably no mechanism either, because it is based on one solidarity, on one consensus, what can happen if one general interest and this general interest of the European Union is preventing one, particular, one individual interest at a time and that interest has nothing to do with that general interest. It's not in any way embedded in that interest. I am therefore surprised that in some cases there was the possibility of a particular European association in relation to some countries so as not to react differently from some general interest. What I had the opportunity to experience at the Interparliamentary Meeting here in the Croatian Parliament between the European Parliamentarians and members of the Croatian Parliament. One unforgettable sentence by Parliamentarian Mr Howitt, who said at one point not to speak about Croatia, not saying about a general context that Cyprus did not raise any objections about the debate on Turkish accession to the European Union because Cyprus knew what political price it would pay if it might have stood up against it. I've come to the conclusion that maybe even some political prices exist, but I've pointed out, but I wouldn't speculate on that. Because I can see from the beliefs and conversations with everyone else how much there is a great tendency and a great mood for Croatia to approach the European Union and even some assurances or, say, wishes that can be seen through such assurances or statements that this may happen by the end, the end of all negotiations and closures until the end of the Spanish term next year in the first half of next year. I guess that's how it's gonna be. Of course, it is clear to all of us that the Croatian position which President Sanader has made very clear is that there is no expensive negotiation of Croatian territory, that is, we cannot give anything willingly to get something because it is a category of which there is no objection and the understanding that the approach that Croatia has offered to resolve in one court, where arguments will be made and therefore come to an end that this is the right path and that this will lead to a real and final solution. Slovenians are really like a people and as people friends and something that happens at the level of Slovenian politics is an attempt to achieve something that seems a mission imposible to them after all. I think that based on the report of the apparition that we have received and what is in my knowledge that work on opening and closing negotiations is going on as if there are no obstacles and that we will be ready in the day-to-day to meet all that is required of us that this would really happen in the final form that happened today in connection with NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30321	Thank you. That's why we've exhausted the debate individually. Does he want a representative? Two minutes. Here you go, dear Vladimir Drobnjak, Ambassador and Deputy Head of State's delegation for negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30322	Ladies and gentlemen, I will really only spend two minutes of your time. First. As chief negotiator on behalf of the negotiating team, I sincerely want to thank you for supporting the National Committee and all MPs in the Croatian Parliament because without your help and cooperation with you and your legislative activities, our work would simply not be possible. Let me just give you some information that is not directly related to the subject of the French Presidency report, but here I am using the occasion and there have been a few questions, so just to brief you on the current statistics from the observation of our negotiating team. So we now have 33, 32 negotiating positions adopted. I think it should be pointed out in particular that all 32 negotiating positions have received consensual support, unanimous support from the National Committee, and this speaks for itself about their value. So, we only have one more negotiating position left, to officially adopt it, it's in the final draft. As for the chapter, we at this point, if the Intergovernmental Conference were to be held tomorrow, we could open nine chapters, we have four additional chapters completely ready to close. And I just want to let you know that on chapters 7 to 8 of this moment we have entered the final stage and we hope that she will be very soon and formally ready to close. Final information, as you know, but remember well, the Intergovernmental Conference was transferred to April 24th and we hope that the problems will be solved by April 24th, i.e. that we will open up the opportunity to allow all these figures to be opened and closed by the chapters in practice. Here, the closing sentence, we continue our work with the highest possible quality and speed, really demanding and specific circumstances and continue with the intention that the next report in front of this High House on the Czech Presidency will be good and content and numerical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30323	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. That's how we end the morning session now. We will continue with the 3rd item of the agenda that is the final draft law on general administrative procedure, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 168 at 15 o'clock. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30324	Report on the course of the negotiations process of the Republic of Croatia - The European Union during the Presidency of the French Republic to the Council of the European Union (term 1 July to 31 December 2008). I am giving the vote the conclusion in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, which reads, the report is accepted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 104 votes in favour and 4 abstentions, the proposed conclusion was reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30325	My colleagues and colleagues, I suggest we begin our afternoon work. We start with the third item of the agenda. It is - Final draft law on general administrative procedure, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 168 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was held: the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. We received a report from the board's meeting at the session. The amendment was submitted by representative Josip Leko, representative Milanka Opačić, and by the Committee on Legislatives. The proposer's representative is State Secretary at the Justice Department, Mr. Zoran Piculjan. Does he want to take the opening statement on behalf of the Proposer? Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30326	... The law on general administrative procedure, a law that has been in place, in its modern version for the last two years and which has been practically applied in the Republic of Croatia since 1956 with mostly not very large and significant novels. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] When it is said that the model, when it is seen and knows that the model of this law was both the ancient solutions and the ancient laws of 1930, it is in fact seen that it is a regulation which has practically been in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in long-term application, showed its stability, showed its good application, its applicability. But he also pointed out that even today in the development of today's administration, today's administrative action and administrative procedure need to be changed, modernised, in some solutions even reformed. Therefore, the purpose of this provision of the final draft law, the purpose of the regulation before you and which is proposed to be adopted is, above all, the modernisation of the administrative procedure in the Republic of Croatia, which would include the simplification of administrative procedures and administrative procedures, the introduction of standards and good practices of the European public administration. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that there are no firm standards and firm recommendations and a European Union directive except in a small number of solutions in the administrative process. But we also rely here on good practices of countries, developed Central European countries and Western European countries and, above all, on good practice that today builds a modern European and then Croatian administration. What will also be tried through modernization is, in any case, to speed up the administrative process and to better address administrative matters. In addition, in addition to modernising what is a significant step in the law itself is the expansion of the circle, the expansion of practically the norm of this law not only to the administrative process, but also to administrative action, to the protection of citizens' rights, parties from the conduct of public legal authorities and public service providers. This is about a significant newspaper, a newspaper that was first introduced into, I would say, even in the laws of the countries, most of the countries of Central and Southeastern Europe. What would be through, which would be one of the last purposes of this modernisation is to standardise the administrative process. Let us remind ourselves and know those who deal with this area of administrative law, but also those who are dealing with law know that at this point we have several dozens, even over 60 specialised administrative procedures that are, in fact, well-determined by the general administrative procedure and thus question, above all, the legal certainty of citizens, but also the effectiveness of public administration. Therefore, the ZUP has, the new General Administrative Procedure Act will be focused on both law enforcement and citizens, and ultimately it would have to provide better conditions for entrepreneurs, deberocracy of behaviour that will allow the corporate Corps to implement its projects more quickly and not to have its administration as a bureaucratic obstacle but above all a good service. How the law does it and with how many norms we've actually tried to solve this inexplicable, this not simple matter. The Old Law on General Administrative Procedure, we hope that it will be old from the next week or from the moment of publication in the “National Journal” has regulated matter with almost 300 articles, 298 articles. The new law also moves on the proposal of this law to only 170 and 172 articles, respectively, when amendments are later made and what we assume will be adopted from the debate so far. This is, therefore, for more than 100 articles to reduce this approach, a different nomotechnical approach which actually ensures greater simplicity, transparency of the law and non-loading of norms by descriptive description as it was in the law which was the product of the time and which should be understood. This law gives more trust to the public administration and more creativity, but it does not come out of public administration, but it does not allow it to go beyond that strict legal application. What's the paper this law makes? It shall, above all, simplify the first-degree administrative procedure, establish direct treatment as a rule, and establish the specific examination procedure as an exception. In this way, more complicated procedures are conducted through a special test procedure and somewhere when we do a rough analysis, we can say that these simpler procedures where they end quickly, the procedure of ending procedures is about 70 over 30% Don't hold my word, it's not a strict analysis, the full analysis isn't done, but I think they're real indicators. What also seems to us to be good news and needed from the aspect of citizens and parties in the process, which is that second-degree bodies are now solving things in the appeal procedure in the metrics. A number of exceptions which have become the rule of returning administrative acts to the re-demand of the first-degree body are allowed only when those acts must be brought directly. What the law offers is a product of its time now and introduces electronic communication into all aspects of the administrative process from its beginning to its end. It also brings better solutions through electronic communication in the quality of personal delivery. One of the most vulnerable institutes of the current administrative process. What seems to be the affirmation of the professionalisation of the administrative procedure is the solution to the administrative procedure and the solutions to the administrative procedure are now being adopted by officials, not by the heads of the body, which has been the rule so far. This gives us one significant step in the expertise and professionalisation of the whole process, but we also put more demands before the public administration, but we give them greater responsibility and greater trust. In addition to the appeal as a classic administrative medicinal product, an objection is introduced as a new legal remedy where in the process of protection against the illegal conduct of public authorities, practices, no proceedings, means actions which do not end in an administrative act and protect against the activities of public service providers. One of the newspapers that the Croatian legal system knows, but it is known in specialist legislation is the introduction into this law and matter of administrative contracts, complicated matter, complex matter, but the matter that we will believe in in the next two or three years through the development of special regulations in one part build up that classical administrative action through an administrative act, through the possibility of regulation and rights and obligations arising from the administrative act and through an administrative contract. This will remind me of the very likely concessions and public private partnership we will be able to submit under this general regime of administrative contracts. What can indeed be expressed as a representative of the motionors is that it has been a very fruitful discussion on committees, particularly on the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice, but also on other committees that have not been, in this section, are not parent. We are most of these amendments, almost all amendments that were sublimed by the Committee on Law, the amendments of all committees seem acceptable and meaningful to us in meaningful improvements, but above all in the legal and technical improvement of the solutions that we have proposed here. What I should not forget, and what I pointed out on the committees, and that this law was dominantly written and fully written by the administrative and legal profession and that was the judges of the Administrative Court, colleagues from the administration and colleagues from the Department of Administrative Law and the Department of Administrative Science. It seems to me that it is this debate that after a long time we have managed to get such a quality team and a quality team of experts, experts that are relatively few in the Republic of Croatia, which is really worrying, we have managed to get solutions that we should first and foremost implement, which is the aim of this regulation. The one where this law moves. It moves between the trend and the trend of modernising and retaining Croatian tradition in this administrative area, in the area of administrative law. And it wants to keep good solutions that have proved to be good in practice, in long-term practice and has stabilised in long-term practice as good and acceptable to administrative experts, but also to citizens, but it also wants to modernise this process and to be in the appropriate time in which the administration today lives and in which the administration works and should act primarily and favour the parties and citizens. By passing this law, we don't actually finish the job. In June of the month before this High House will also be presented in the first reading of the Law on Administrative Disputes, which is also beginning a very demanding project of modernising the Croatian Administrative Court and thus will in fact try through a new general administrative procedure, and hopefully also manage to implement with time a better quality of administration and administrative treatment, but what is important when this whole package is brought to life and what is particularly important, but also protection of citizens' rights and interests, both in administrative proceedings and in administrative courts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30327	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? She's an esteemed colleague of Parliament, Ana Lovrin. Here you go. The Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30328	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the 23rd session held on 10 March 2009, the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the final draft law on a general administrative procedure submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 26 February 2009. The final proposal for a law was discussed by the Committee in the capacity of the interested working body in accordance with the powers set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the opening statement, the proposing representative briefly explained the differences compared to the proposal for this law in relation to the final proposal that is now ahead of us. In the debate, the committee members pointed out that the applicant did not sufficiently evaluate the comments made to Article 2 of the Law and in the debate, then before the Committee on the Constitution. The final proposal for a law on a general administrative procedure sets out the following opinions, proposals and observations. Article 2 is not in a clear and unambiguous way to distinguish the concept of administrative matters from the act of governance, so it is proposed to supplement the article by a negative definition. Article 47(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 provides that a public body or another public body or a court should be responsible for the collection of information on the facts on which the official records are kept by a public legal authority to which the proceedings are conducted or by another public legal authority or court should be strengthened by predicting the consequences in the event that the official does not act in accordance with this provision. As regards the proposed Article 70, that a party’s statement may also be taken as a means of proof when there is no other evidence for the determination of certain facts, it has been warned that the same provision should be supplemented in a way that warns the party of the effect of making a false declaration. After a discussion of the Committee on Justice with 5 votes and 2 votes against, he decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on a general administrative procedure with the proposal to review Article 2 by a negative definition of the administrative act by the end of the debate. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30329	Thank you very much. The other committees? There isn't. We're going to a club debate. First of all, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, distinguished counterpart, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30330	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. As this morning's vote of the Law of Accession to NATO played a historic role in Croatia, I would say of our internal opportunities, but equally the difficulties, the adoption of this law also has, I would say, a historical role. Namely, the reputation of a state among its own citizens depends primarily on how much they trust its institutions. We know that our institutions are weak, but above all, it is up to everyone in power to strengthen them, in order to gain the necessary trust of citizens without whom they really cannot effectively carry out their legal and constitutional tasks and be at the height of their task. In fact, citizens are not satisfied with the work of the state administration, the work of the administration. This law regulates the rules on the basis of which the authorities of the state administration and other state bodies, as well as the units of local self-government and legal persons who have these public powers, resolve in administrative matters. on the rights and obligations or legal interests of a natural or legal person. So they decide on very important things and the speed they decide on in a way. with the quality of their decision, they also directly decide on economic progress in one country. Let's not just forget the importance of these procedures. I'll just mention customs procedures, tax administrative procedures, where it can be a big, high value of disputes. Therefore, this reputation of an institution that is very weak is up to all of us, as I say, and these bodies can do their job. In today's conditions, we now see why this captivating liberalism has led us to the extreme limits of atomizing an individual who feels weak, powerless when confronted with huge state systems, primarily by a legal system, primarily its administrative system. At first I will say that the SDP club supports the adoption of this law and also welcomes all these changes and improvements that occurred in this time between the first and this second reading. this final bill. In fact, here's what the law explains and let's remind ourselves, this is one of the longest laws, in fact the longest law, I don't know if the Law on Administrative Disputes is any older, passed far away in 1956, and that it was still based on the Law on Administrative Procedure and the Law on Implementation since 1930. So there were basic principles of conduct and basically he's been for a long time I'd say meeting my needs and demands. Maybe this is what afternoon's time is like to remember, because we've been inheriting this since Austria-Hungarian times, and let's see maybe one of the extracts that I've read and read on the Committee on Legislatives, maybe here's one more time to remind ourselves of the excerpts from Maria Teresa's command of conduct in the state service. So it's very important except for the law that we have and the good one, how otherwise state officials and tenants and those who decide to treat a citizen, whether they appear as individuals or as a legal person. And this depends not only on the laws that we will have better or worse, of course it is better to always have the best, but the dominant application of the law and the quality of the law, based on what they think about the position of an individual in society. Do they treat him as a citizen or as a subject? Does a citizen develop awareness, in general, that every government, every level of government, serves its citizens and that they have the right to check and ask? Is that the position today? No, because citizens are unhappy. And there's something urgent to be done here, because without a good reform, which I think truly true reform begins with the adoption of this law, there's no judicial reform. Because everything that's bad happens in the administration, it's coming down to our courts later. Here may be an excerpt from Maria Teresa's command that gave an edict about conduct in the state service. which gave an edict of conduct in the civil service. "Every day, the only day of the week is the day that everyone will come to the schoolyards at seven o'clock hard at the office and be there until 15 o'clock in the afternoon. Each time, and longer if the demand is required, I have worked hard and done my job and what was ordered to do. That is why, even if the removal of them does not bother and prevents them from talking, they do not talk in madness, they do not measure, they do not know, they do not argue, they do not play, they do not drink, they do not feast in office or with each other, or with outsiders, and they will be sober and moderate, they will love peace and harmony, and they will rule in all things decent and handsome. From outsiders not to let themselves into pre-negotiated and closed rooms and finally honor and honesty of the aforementioned council and offices to try to keep and maintain unblemished.". So how important is this ethical moment in the conduct of civil servants and tenants. However, today we have and this has been going on for years and none of the authorities have celebrated in this, however, many things have worsened, we have an army of poorly-paid state administrations. The question of how to hire people in the state administration. The issue of further progress, the issue of transparency of quality advancement, for those who have decided therefore, to devote their whole lives to careers and administration. However, it is obvious that all these criteria do not apply at all, the very fact that we have here what the secretary of state has stated, therefore, is something that all of us need to be concerned that top experts, scientists, administrative rights have so, so little. France, which is simply a cradle of the education of the administration and for which nothing less matters, this school, these colleges, of the right itself, is committed to the role of the administration. So is Austria. But that's why these countries don't know what a silence administration is. And simply if the administrative bodies do not resolve within the legal time limit, if their decisions are abolished by the administrative court, then it is again in the drawer and no one is responsible for it, then let's not be surprised that so little trust is in the administration. Whether this bill will contribute to this, if it is judged by this normative solution, it should be optimistic. But that's not enough, we're going to have to change really ways, progress and get into the state service. The criteria of acquaintance, the relationship must be eliminated from this important and so sensitive branch. Because according to them, civil servants and tenants. They're a mirror, simple management is the mirror of a state. However, we still have a case today, and I will repeat that because they are not stopped from warning the attorney general. So, the state is still the biggest human rights offender, it's just being seen through lawsuits, a administrative court addressed by citizens for violations of rights through various ministries. And that number doesn't matter. The number of classical cases before courts of regular jurisdiction is reduced. But it's still here. The administrative court is overly burdened with the lawsuits most citizens make. Therefore, in that sense he needs to do something. Two principles that always appear in any procedure, as well as in this general administrative procedure, the principle of efficiency or the principle of protection of human rights. There can never be a doubt between these two basic principles. There seems to be some tension between these two principles. But we don't have to fear the principle of efficiency in order for it to be at the expense of guaranteed rights of participants in the process. Certainly, this one newspaper, or the one transparency of the law itself, is an evident, reduction of the existing law by 100 articles is not little but has not been lost at all in the transparency that I welcome that each article has its name, that of course makes it easier to apply it to those who will apply the law, as well as to the addresses to which this law will apply. This big newspaper that is, and that's the contract, the administrative contract on it would be a little bit more to say. However, I am going to say on behalf of the club just say a few notes by viewing it as a key contract in the transparency of the work of the state administration. In the SDP club, we hold that this administrative contract, which is based on a solution, we have already seen here the opening which, which would be the subject of these administrative contracts, concessions, public private partnership, everything that has often been under the public eye, has caused great mistrust and consideration both of our own citizens and those whom we wish to join. To the European Union, there has always been clean work here. In fact, nothing is stopping us, and it would be good if this administrative contract were of a public nature. We have fought something in the law as a SDP club to our amendments that these solutions to obtain concessions or to a public private partnership are as publicized as they are. The main objection was that the details of the contract should not be known to the public. Because that's when it was thought that it would all be covered by that solution. But the one doing business with the state has nothing to hide. These are not private relationships between two private persons, either physically or legally. So whoever is doing business with the state, each citizen is authorised to have the right to know what the content of that contract is, under which terms it is concluded and whether these contractual relations are ultimately respected, or obligations under those and such contracts. I think that would be a major advance in citizens' trust in dealings and above all getting jobs like this. It is also to welcome the adoption of one of these institutes, i.e. legal protection against the conduct of public-legal authorities and the conduct of public service providers against the illegal action of a public-law authority. Certainly, an illegal action should be the one in the first place when it is not acted at all. It's the biggest injury, because whoever does it can be wrong. Of course, who's making mistakes on purpose, that he'll also be subject to criminal responsibility, but if he doesn't solve it at all, if there's no penalty for it, then he'll be in vain and a law like this. Here's another thing. So we have an objection at the SDP club. Supporting, once again, the adoption of this law was good and it would have been good if we had discussed together the law, the new Law on Administrative Disputes, because it necessarily continues to change the administrative procedure in which we then expect, since we have also a large discretionary authority of the administrative authorities and bodies and individuals who decide that judicial protection will be imposed as a court of full jurisdiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30331	Thank you very much. The debate on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club is further followed. A fellow agent, Zlatko Horvat. Here you go, fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30332	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So when a law is in force for more than 50 years and survives several different political systems and systems, it is obvious that it speaks of its contents and it is obvious that the law is written on the basis of some experiences, there in the 1930s, and then in view of some Austrian models or old Yugoslav models, and yet survives in the former Yugoslavia, almost 20 years and in modern Croatia, so obviously this law had some quality. However, despite this, I believe that the adoption of this new Law on General Administrative Procedure is out of direct need in view of the modernisation of all areas of public and private action. According to various surveys we have seen, citizens' mistrust immediately after the judiciary is the biggest to the state administration, according to the administration, and therefore it is one of the reasons why the existing General Administrative Procedure Act is definitely necessary to revise and align with new social movements and in some way with the new concept of public administration as a service-oriented activity towards citizens. Because regardless of this longevity, however, there are certain outdated institutes or institutes that need to be adapted to new information, communication and other technical achievements and technologies. Therefore, the Croatian People's Party's Club also supports the adoption of this law and therefore I personally support new institutes, such as the single administrative place, administrative contract, e-mail delivery, etc. However, I think that despite all the good intentions that there is a certain lack of understanding of such new institutes in this bill. Well, here's what I'm going to do. I'm just going to give a few examples that I think maybe with one dorado, we'd make a better law and it's a good one and it's a good one, and it's written by the waist, and I think it's really one step forward in making our regulations. Here, for example. Article 22 introduces a unique administrative place in which it is briefly described in three paragraphs that, in the case of higher administrative and other proceedings, the parties must be able to submit at a unique administrative place all the requirements which are of course supported and which procedure definitely brings the administration closer to the citizens. However, I believe that the institution in question of a single administrative place should be developed in a way that clearly introduces the obligation to establish such a administrative position in any public-law body as well as with public service providers, so to the legal person who performs public services. I don't think that's clear enough and it might be in the process of implementing certain problems. Then, electronic communication. Indeed, I welcome the introduction of this kind of communication between public legal authorities and parties, but I also believe that this institute is under-developed and that, as such, it could create problems, in particular in determining the time of delivery, either in terms of the provision of requests or the provision of information to the party. It is therefore necessary to introduce provisions on the instruments for checking the electronic delivery carried out. I think there's a weak link, so in that new electronic communications institute. And here's another example. The Institute of Administrative Contract is definitely needed and we really welcome its introduction into the law, but I don't think it's worked out enough in a way that in particular its purpose and I don't think it's flexiblely described and arranged as an institute. In particular, Article 151 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union states that a public body and a party will enter into an administrative contract on the enforcement of the rights and obligations laid down in a solution which has settled the administrative matter, which would mean that the parties are issued both the solution and the administrative contract, if I have understood that correctly. Therefore, the purpose of the administrative contract is not clear enough. Whether it is intended to simplify administrative actions or not, and for that reason, I think it is necessary for an administrative contract as an institute that should be shown, I said earlier, a service-oriented public administration activity, so that it should be more detailed because it is also questionable to tie this institute to a solution. So I don't see the purpose of making such a deal if we're making a solution. There are other such things, but whatever the case, we think that such a proposal for a contract is one significant step forward when it comes to administrative action, especially when it comes to shortening it, so for those hundreds of articles that it has stated here that, regardless of their reduction, the number of regulated institutions of the general administrative procedure has not been reduced and that these issues are being regulated simpler and more systematic. Therefore, as the new General Administrative Procedure Act states here, it should be an important element in the process of improving administrative capacities in the Republic of Croatia and, nevertheless, the General Administrative Procedure Act should ensure a balance between requirements for objective and rapid decision-making on the one hand, and the protection rights and legitimate interests of citizens and other parties participating in the procedure on the other hand. In this context, therefore, a modern democratic society requires a public administration which on the one hand is seen as a public interest guardian, and on the other hand as a service-oriented activity aimed at citizens, entrepreneurs and the wider community. So these are the things that we support and which are well written and regardless of these, so the shortcomings that I think would, with one piece of work, make them clearer, the club of HNS representatives will support the adoption of this law with intent and the desire to bring it into practice to the fullest extent and to benefit all citizens who work in administrative matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30333	Thank you very much, fellow representative. On behalf of the HDZ Club, dear colleague Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30334	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I would also like to point out that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the adoption of the General Administrative Procedure Act in its final proposal, noting this opportunity that it is one of the most important regulations in our legal system. Therefore, in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, and in addition to the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on Prosecution, it is the backbone of the regulation of a procedural and legal nature that regulates almost all areas of human life and work. There are almost no areas in the area, so life where, directly or indirectly, this regulation does not apply, and thus has a significant impact on the exercise or realization of the rights of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It should also be pointed out that the General Administrative Procedure Act should be adopted not only because the existing regulation is somewhat archaic and is based on laws passed in the middle of the last century, but also on the fact that the entire public administration in the Republic of Croatia is now undergoing significant reforms during the accession process of the European Union, and it is indeed necessary for the implementation of them to be more modern, more modern and new, so that such time is adapted to the General Administrative Procedure Act. Therefore, the new law or more significant reform of the General Administrative Procedure Act is also based on the need to respect the following key elements. I've systematized them in five basics. So, first of all, it's about new European public administration standards. Secondly, it agrees, therefore, in terms of the legal practice of all European countries. Thirdly, the generally accepted views of administrative simplification, I repeat this principle, and this principle really corresponds to the very solutions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, i.e. administrative simplification. Fourth, improving new standards of legislative technique. And the fifth, strong development of information and communication technology, and in this sense the adaptation and the institutes that have been developed by the General Administrative Procedure Act. And I would also underline, stress two more things, two more elements that seem unusually important to me. In fact, the law itself needed to create preconditions for removing problems relating to current or current practice, which is that in certain issues of administrative procedure are regulated differently in specific regulations in relation to the solution from the applicable General Administrative Procedure Act. This is certainly unacceptable practice, and this law also provides for basic preconditions to solve these problems. On the other hand, it should be stressed that respect for reform processes based on decentralisation processes and, on the other hand, on the process of liberalisation or privatisation in the public service sector, with the introduction of new regulatory and supervisory agencies, which is the practice of introducing these agencies and new regulatory and supervisory agencies. Therefore, in this respect, the provisions of administrative action or administrative procedure should also be adapted conditionally to that time. It is in this sense that the expectations of citizens and entrepreneurs rightly go in the direction that the public administration's action must not be complicated, that it must not be slow, bureaucratised and that all those elements that we can come to under the common denominator are elements of corruption or what is referred to it as one of the greatest Halls, which therefore points to it. So, exactly the opposite. The Republic of Croatia is a democratic society, a society that requires public administration to be seen as a guardian of public interest, as a service activity aimed not towards itself but towards citizens of entrepreneurs and a wider social community. It is this regulation, therefore, that it becomes the foundation of these processes or of what is precisely in all areas, and therefore also in the areas of regulation of administrative conduct as a society we strive. As far as concrete legal solutions are concerned, as news or an important newspaper, I think the next concrete, therefore, solution should be highlighted. First of all, I would point out, so simplifying the procedure or a much simpler administrative procedure which will only, therefore, not only provide one good tool to all those who will serve this law, so first of all, I think of civil servants, deputies. Therefore, those who apply the provisions of this law in everyday business, but also to the citizens to whom it applies. Because simplifying the process means, therefore, citizens will be introduced in a different way to all these clear and precise institutes, and that ultimately they will be able to exercise their rights in a much faster and more high-quality way. Therefore, those rights that will protect or exercise in the administrative procedure. Furthermore, I think it is very important to stress and it is precisely what all my speakers have done, all those who have already spoken about this law and it really needs to be emphasized, and it is the Institute of Administrative Contract. So, the administrative contract as a novelty that is first introduced as an institute at all. This law is introduced into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. Next, legal medicines. Not only how they are worked out, but also in terms of the application of legal medicines, the decision-making method or the essence in terms of decision-making of administrative bodies. I think they're significant improvements. In particular, I would like to emphasise where it is prescribed that the second-degree authorities of the state administration are now, as a rule, deciding on the measure, that we do not have those situations where, by means of complaints or legal medicines, it is that the second-degree bodies would, in fact, return the procedure to the first-degree decision-making body, where both a lot of time and a lot of energy were spent, and protection of citizens' rights, in this sense, the passage of time, of course, was questionable. I would also highlight the institution of a unique place for contact and coordination, creating legal assumptions for future establishment in the administration system of a well-known institute, all in one place. I would also point out a clearer definition or definition of an administrative act. This is Article 2 of the Law, however, there may be little to stop in this place because the definition of the administrative act is high-quality, so it is designed by the very provision of the law. However, what may yet be done has not been done. Maybe not with this law, but certainly with the Law on Administrative Disputes, which is to make a negative definition of the administrative act, so that the law determines all that is not an administrative act. Especially when we're talking about so-called. acts of governance because that and by nature things are not administrative acts. It may be an opportunity for this law to define it, but in any case in administrative proceedings, it should be defined in order to avoid any inaccuracies and ambiguities arising from whether certain acts are administrative acts and whether, in that sense, their definition as administrative act, protection of citizens' rights can be achieved, therefore, by suing the Constitutional Court or perhaps in some other way. In any case, this is a matter worthy of our attention, this is a matter of effort to try to define, to try to definitely distinguish what the administrative act is, and what it is not, which are acts of governance in relation to administrative acts to avoid any of those misunderstandings that arise in our everyday life, in practice. I think it's an opportunity to address this debate at least not at the principle level, but specifically this problem. And beyond that, and finally, I think it's important to highlight the new delivery solutions, the delivery methods. These are solutions that improve the way of delivery and all that delivery is in every way, in all those laws that processically solve certain issues and, of course, I would stress this information technology or the new communication system. This law really adapts through its institutes the possibility of using information technology as an improvement in terms of and application of the law itself and, of course, in terms of protecting the rights of citizens or their interests when they pursue these interests in the administrative process. When it adds to this, and the fact that so far important areas of administrative procedure compared to previous legal solutions that are systematically different, so now they are more transparent, easier to assess is that we have not only an important legal project ahead of us, but a really modern law, a law that meets the time and requirements on which it is being passed. So I have already noted that the most important newspaper is the introduction of a administrative contract and resolution in the administrative process of administrative contracts. So, the definition and resolution of all those issues that arise for us regarding the conclusion, the way in which the administrative contract is concluded and applied in practice. Administrative contracts as specific types of contracts are defined by law as bilateral legal acts which the State, or another public-legal body, would conclude with a third party, whether physically or legally for the purpose of achieving a specific objective of wider social interest and under the conditions laid down in a specific regulation. The need for special arrangements of administrative contracts stems from the circumstances that today the authorities of the state administration, i.e. public authorities shall enter into legal relations with other entities, in particular those, and this should be highlighted by private law and not only through administrative acts, which, when designing and changing or abolishing a legal relationship, characterises. Therefore, each administrative act characterises authoritativeness on the one hand, and one-sidedness on the other. Therefore, the decision-making of the public authority can, of course, be based on relations resulting from the consent of their wills. It's an administrative contract, that kind of behavior. Management of public authorities' affairs through a contract. This should be pointed out in particular, the overall and increasingly common phenomenon in all countries and as such that it was absolutely necessary to prescribe, or systematise it in our legal system. However, the administrative contract does not arise in any agreement or relationship between the State, or any segment of government, but only exists when the assumptions that characterise the contract are defined in a material and formal sense. The following contracts concluded by the State or other body may also be classified as two large groups. Therefore, to the private rights contracts and to the administrative contracts, it is precisely those which we are now introducing in the General Administrative Procedure Act and in our legal system, and it is in fact to welcome this solution and to welcome the way in which the administrative contract is systematically arranged or established precisely by the General Administrative Procedure Act. Of course, there is a major legislative project in front of us with many institutes and that it can be debated for a long and wide time, so in this sense I will bring this debate, in terms of support for this law of the end, to point out just one more institute that is also very important and we find it in the General Administrative Procedure Act, which is an instrument of objection as a specific or specific form of legal medicine in the administrative procedure. And, of course, to welcome all those solutions that are related to legal medicines that have therefore been taken out of use by all those forces, so all those legal medicines that we have called exceptional legal medicines, and not only to be systematised in a better and better quality way, but to be developed in such a way that they can, therefore, invest legal medicines in an even faster and simpler way, have legal protection in the context of administrative action. And here I see that my red light is kind of burning, light. One last sentence to conclude. This is an extremely important law, it really needs to be passed. The Croatian Democratic Community's club supports this bill and also thinks that, within the framework of the administration's reform of this law, the law on administrative disputes needs to be reached as soon as possible, so that we have a uniformly systemised all of those problems, i.e. a legally regulated complete system of state administration, so the General Administrative Procedure Act and the Law on Administrative Disputes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30335	Thank you very much. There are no new applications on behalf of the clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. First of all, dear colleague Dragutin Lesar. Here's your colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30336	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. In my debate on this final draft of the law, I will only discuss one segment, make a number of remarks and immediately say that I did not write amendments, because I know they would not accept them. But there are likely to be occasions, as with all laws of frequent change. Remember them for the future. I'm looking at this law regarding citizens and the state administration. Or wherever a citizen meets with those who have public authority of administrative authority. The silence of the administration, the biggest problem for anyone, who tries to achieve any way, and protect any of their personal rights, any property, any other. That is why they are related to me, and in this problem I apostrophe Articles 12, 79 and 122 are appeal deadlines. I've read these laws many times, which I've just told you, and I have to tell you that if I were to serve the rights of this law, I'm not sure that in the appeal procedure I wouldn't be late. Article 12 states that the first-degree decision or, if the public legal authority has not settled the administrative matter within the prescribed time limit, the suspension shall have the right to appeal unless otherwise prescribed by law. Now, what's the time limit for solving a first-degree decision? I should probably know 30 more special laws. So, I don't know, a citizen doesn't know what that deadline is in first-degree resolution if it hasn't settled within the prescribed time limit. Well, when you learn what the prescribed time limit is, that is, if otherwise decided by another regulation, by another law. Why isn't there a universal deadline when the first-degree body has to solve the case? The universal time limit of the right of appeal and the universal time limit when the second-degree body has to resolve the administrative object. With these differences both within the deadlines and in dealing with the party's right to appeal, we force people to use lawyer or public notary services in administrative proceedings or at least legal advisers. We probably also want to contribute to the development of the private initiative market in this segment, or whatever it is called, when citizens need to pay for a service. The deadlines shall be laid down in Article 79 for the taking of certain actions in the procedure. Very good. Where the time limit is not prescribed, the official will set the appropriate time limit for the performance of the work in the procedure. And this official will inform of certain deadlines? Central government office or party in the process. As a party to the proceedings, the citizen knows if he is not obliged to set some kind of deadline. Article 122 also refers to the resolution of complaints, i.e. a second-degree procedure which must be completed within 60 days. If it's not prescribed a shorter deadline, again if it isn't, fine. And why don't we go with a decision or a provision, that by calling for silence from the administration if it's not settled within the deadline, it's considered to be a positive solution, if it's a citizen's right. For every administration procedure, at least one legal advisor to make sure I didn't miss the appeal deadline or the appeal place, I don't know why. The second area is related to Articles 75 and 95, which is communication via e-mail. The Article, finally and this law provides for the possibility, that Article 75 may also be communicated by the public legal authorities of the party and other persons participating in the procedure in electronic form. And I welcome that as a solution, but I warn that the provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3, and in particular paragraph 3, which reads "the electronic way of the submitted submission is considered to be adjusted" etc. So I'm asking, only the submission or the attached documentation can be in electronic form? Is it in the administrative procedure where I have to attach a copy of the birth certificate, or do I have to bring and deliver my birth certificate copy by e-mail, because if I have it in electronic form? Try to apply in practice, simulate the application of this provision. If you want, I'll give you an example. He's two weeks old. I personally experienced it. When you come to the state administration's office to sign up for the O.P.G., the family agricultural economy, among other things, must have a copy of the catastra. Which is normal, which is good. However, the structure and records are such that when you sign in other than owning the country, nothing else matters. It's not about culture. And if you want to sign in to the wine and brandy producer's book, which works the same office in the other room, you need to bring back a copy of the catastra. Although you already have a solution to enroll in the O.P.G. But in this solution, there are really no elements on the basis of which a person would be enrolled in the book of the wine producer, for example. The same office, the same state administration, the same regulations, twice a copy of the catastra that would because those who designed the procedure and this is exactly the administrative procedure this second did not, did not link the two actions for one entry. Because enrolling in a wine producer's book isn't an administrative procedure, but it's an O.P.G. These are the new laws, which you have now passed, proposed, passed the votes that apply back a year. Therefore, communication or submission by e-mail, and the existence of word submission can be disputed whether only submission and accompanying documentation. Whether the authorities participating in the administrative procedure in Croatia are allowed to provide documents in electronic form, whether in the home office, I must obtain paper and a copy of the birth, wedding or death book or may receive it in electronic form. And to use it in electronic form, for a child's allowance, for example. Why should I bring a pope if I have it in electronic form and I deliver it in electronic form? Not just a submission, but a complete object. The third question, whether citizens can pay state taxes via the Internet. For entry into the OPG is 75 kuna, Mr. Friscic probably knows that. And you have to take and buy a mark. Can I pay it online? And you can't even get into those books you can't pay online, but you have to go to a bank or post office to pay. If you introduce electronic communication, enter and e-payment, save on the number of employees needed, transactions and savings to citizens. And in the end, I didn't find a single provision that would make a millimeter of steps in favour of the citizens and in terms of the next golden rule. The body of public authority, by administrative procedure, cannot be asked by a citizen and must not require any information or document available to that body or other body of public authority. In what administrative procedure, please tell me, in what administrative procedure in Croatia is this principle applied at this time? Neither, nor any public legal authority shall apply that rule, nor shall this law apply. Thus, citizens will still have to collect documents and facts and data already available to the national authority or administrative body because you do not have a set-up system to provide documents to the same body or other public administrative body. And in this context, I say that this law is not to the end in favour of the citizens, that it has not resolved to the end what we have written in the law for years that we do not harass people, that for every administrative procedure, they must bring a bunch of papers over and over again. And that's why I don't consider this law any major progress. A little improvement, yes, by making progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30337	Thank you very much. We have two applications for replication. First of all, colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30338	What you've done with your colleague, Lesar, is apostrophe. I think it's still the cancer of the early administration. And what I was talking about on behalf of the club. And that's why I'm going to be apostrophe once again, so, and here the law doesn't give a solution to what happens when the administrative body doesn't solve within the time limit. It's about how he has the right to appeal, etc., but it's no use, because while he's waiting for a lawyer to complain, he's also waiting. By order or by order to solve the first-degree body, we are already witnesses, so people, their physical existence is often compromised, such as pension insurance rights. People can't exercise their fundamental rights or break up once whether they have a right or not. And there's nothing going on with people like that. If we withdraw the parallel with the Law on a litigation procedure which is also an extraordinary law where the judge even has a duty to make a verdict, to draw up a verdict, to send it to the court within 15 days under threat, therefore, a significant injury, is not respected and nothing is respected. So what we're talking about, and what I'm talking about, and I believe other colleagues, is the issue of the functioning and capacity of the state, we're too weak. Applications or disciplines shall not be submitted to those persons. Even a criminal can be reported if they decide one way or another, but no one has ever been reported because they haven't made a decision. But if he hasn't decided, he's knowingly putting the item in the drawer and getting paid for it. So let's just remember one outrageous example, in 2002, when the then minister of one inspector accused or referred to a disciplinary court because in two years he solved a single case and received a warning. And then what are we talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30339	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Lesar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30340	Mrs. Ingrid, you are right, and exactly the most common number of complaints against the dissatisfaction of citizens is that in both administrative and administrative actions, procedures are difficult to cope with, and especially in the case that the deadlines for resolving and from this law prescribed in this way, as in this law we now have first for citizens are unclear. Secondly, when those deadlines pass and it is a matter of appeal procedures and even in another step of action, what if it is not resolved. Therefore, in the first and second stages of the procedure, the citizen could not exercise his right. Which is now a administrative dispute. People have no other business and no other place to spend money but other administrative disputes have to solve something called administrative proceedings. The problem is in people, in the system of the state administration, and precisely because of the absence of sanctions but the escape of the state from the responsibility that the provisions in the silence of the administration and the positive solution force the state to and thus resolve the dispute and beyond will not bring too much benefit to the citizens. You may find this debate ridiculous, people will continue to be dissatisfied. They will continue to be dissatisfied and you will still have in the media situations, excesses and examples of what it means to clash with the head of state bureaucracy and to exercise your rights. I don't see any reason, if in time you've been warned of just those facts that already in this law these steps haven't made... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30341	Thank you very much. And distinguished counterpart Ivo Josipovic also reported on the replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30342	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. A colleague, Lesar, made a lot of interesting and useful remarks. I'd just look back at one that has a small reserve. It is an initiative that the silence of the administration is interpreted in a way that the solution is positive. It may be in a system where silence is really done on purpose so as not to delay, perhaps it would be appropriate. However, our experience has shown that humans are very inventive, that they abuse it. So we had progress, for example, in the system of science and higher education that was based on the fact that the purpose of our colleagues did not come to the meeting of the parent committee to enable the administration to remain silent, when we had the silence of the administration, someone gained a calling that did not belong to him. So here's the note. And another one that, where I agree with my colleague Lesar, I'm just supplementing a little bit, should really consider that citizens don't have documents and papers that overlap with purpose. Is it really necessary to have a ID card, a housekeeper, a birth certificate excerpt from the marriage books, and I don't know what's expensive, that you might consider simplifying things? It's not the subject of this law, but I'm referring to the idea of simplification, so citizens are much easier to do than they need from the state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30343	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30344	I fully agree with my colleague Josipovic that the model of silence of the administration he considers a positive subject to be resolved is for a regulated state. But I was convinced that we were a state. My colleague Josipovic, here I am convinced that we are a well-organised state and that our state administration is a well-organized state administration. That's what it says in the reasons of all the laws that have come so far. I believe it. So if we are, I'm just asking that what all the organized states already have, let's apply ourselves. And these countries that have become organized before us, this abuse that you have announced, which is precisely possible even worse, I have asked them, and they have solved it in a way that the immediate suspension of all those responsible who have misused it, and they have currently suspended them from the state administration, and after that they have no longer had any problems. The suspensions are done in the same way, but not according to the criteria of these possible abuses, but exclusively by political criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30345	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. Dear fellow MP Josip Leko. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30346	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honored Proposers on behalf of the Government. My colleagues and fellow MPs. There is no doubt that the importance of this law is extremely high. In fact, I am convinced that there will be no citizen of the Republic of Croatia or legal person who will not use the provisions of this law to exercise one of his rights before public authorities, one of his own interests. So I think it's very important to know that this law is actually the brother of the Law on Administrative Disputes, especially as it is imagined. Therefore, this will not be a fully regulated situation, since we do not have in the administrative dispute and the administrative trial of the administrative court that solves in full jurisdiction, i.e. the measure of matters. And this law requires it, so the question is whether and when will one law and another make it possible for citizens to quickly pursue their interest in the state administration. While this is not the case, it is difficult to talk about the qualities and intentions of even this law. To that end, I would say that the article makes it very clear, in Article 6 of the bill, that citizens or parties will be allowed to apply their rights. So something actually greatly strengthened the state in this law instead of being weak, public administration. The second thing I would say, and it is possible to change, is this Article 47 that public administrative authorities themselves obtain documents from other public-legal bodies that keep certain official records. Of course, this means that the Croatian state has arranged records and that it declares trust in these records which unfortunately is not the rule with us. It's not true even for the most important records, which is land books. But without that, this law can provide for some documents, some documents that can be quite easily obtained already, that the administrative body can very easily and can use the administrative procedure that leads to it, and the documents are located with other administrative bodies or public authorities that have public authority. In fact, technical possibilities exist. Online connections and signatures electronically. So that's where we could take the step. We've already discussed this on two committees for the working bodies of the Parliament. And the most important thing I wanted to say about this law is that, indeed, for the silence of the administration, a very short time after the expiry of the deadline in which the solution was to be issued, a decision is to be made. I think that would be helpful. So, two things. Therefore, more realistically consider the possibilities of public-government bodies when it comes to obtaining documents, then reduce, shorten the time limit for filing an action to the Administrative Court for silence of the administration or the second-degree body. And at the end of his address, I think it is unacceptable, it is neither appropriate to the system nor to the continuity of state-law that public officials who already have a state exam in which the administrative procedure and the Law on Administrative Disputes could not be employed on these matters if they did not re-test for this new one, so to speak the administrative procedure. It is possible and there are citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have passed a professional exam, a state expert exam and do not work now in any of the public legal bodies, and will compete or want to work in the state administration and will certainly have to go through education and train every day. So, lifelong learning. But if we had to force them to pass a new state exam, I don't think it makes any sense. I think it's even inappropriate considering everything we've said about the Constitution and the state-law continuity. If we could and if the Proposer would accept not only to stop by adopting or to say the conclusion of the debate on this proposal, the final draft of the law until it comes into debate in Parliament of the Law on Administrative Dispute, then we could really talk in the package about a step forward in the interests of citizens, legal persons and all those who will benefit from this Administrative Procedure Act. I think that would be in the interest of both the proposings and the Croatian state and the Croatian economy and legal certainty in the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30347	Thank you very much. There's a further application for a debate between the distinguished colleagues of Denesh Shaw. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30348	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Secretary of State. Since I have received a satisfactory answer regarding the application of Article 14 where language use is spoken, there is no need to open the discussion, so thank you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30349	Thank you very much. It was short. Next, a colleague named Mirela Holly has been reported for the debate. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30350	Thank you, dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the government. Since I worked for four years at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, I welcome this bill that significantly modernises the General Administrative Procedure Act, which I dare say is a fundamental law for the functioning of the public authority. I therefore believe that it was indeed high time for the law that may have been modern in 1956 to be amended in a way that allowed the body of public administration to be transformed from governance to governance. I only hope that we are amending this extremely important law precisely for the reason mentioned above, not to formally satisfy another European requirement. Co-operation with Professor Ivan Grdesic in the Council for the Political System of the SDP, I learned that the traditional model of government in the conditions of globalisation and europeanisation has become ineffective and ineffective. Unfortunately, we have this traditional model with centralised and hierarchy of the administrative apparatus in Croatia. What is worse than the ineffectiveness of the apparatus itself is the decline in the democratic quality of the political system and the difficulty, and perhaps the disabling of sustainable economic development of the state. That is why institutions such as the United Nations and the European Union promote implementation of the process of turning governance into governance, and Croatia as a state interested in joining the European Union and a circle of developed democratic countries must change in this direction in order to ensure democratic stability and governance quality, and create assumptions for European and globalisation responses. This bill of law could be the right step in that direction. I would like to stress here that the Council for the Political System of the SDP is led by Prof. Grdesic defined the necessary elements of governance for the Croatian political system several years ago. These are the first state-owned efficiency, i.e. a country that costs less, and more, then the establishment of a country model for citizens that implies satisfaction for citizens with state administration services and from state services by promoting the principle of professionalism, quality, innovation and accountability. The reform of the state administration is necessary, but only if it is based on professional independence and accountability. The next necessary element for the establishment of a governance model is the rule of law which, unfortunately, seems to us in today's Croatia's dream, and therefore legal efficiency is a key prerequisite for the restriction of corruption. In order for the state to manage, and not rule, it is necessary that we here, too, make better laws, decisions and public policies, because unprepared and short-term public policies open up a space for corruption and abuse. Diletarian decisions and rules of poor competence of our economy and bring instability into the institutions of the market. The next key element of governance is the rationalisation of management, financial and political resources, and the participation of citizens in political processes and decision-making, and this element relates to the last and that is the right to information. The right to information is not only a question of rights, but also the possibility of real democratic participation of citizens, which also makes the government a necessary condition and a legitimate requirement. Some of the elements necessary for the transformation of the state apparatus from the operating modes into the management mode are covered by this bill proposal. That's something to say goodbye to. But what is extremely concerned is whether this law will be translated into practice in 2010 after we bring it into practice. I am not saying this because I am a representative from the opposition's ranks, but on the basis of experience so far, which is from the practice of working in the state administration, which takes into account the ignoring of some extremely important laws, which, like the Law on the right to access information, refer exactly to how the public authority works. I'll start with the first problem, and it's a deeply designed practice of nerado and so on. the frequent silence of the administration in the implementation of various administrative procedures which make up the gross actions of the majority of the public authority. As I worked at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, I have gained a good insight into how this ministry works, and I believe that in other ministries and public authorities there is nothing different, and that is, at the very least, the next ratio. 40% of employees and employees are killed by work and precisely because of their work of the state as much as it works, while about 60% of employees and officials in the least don't earn nearly their small official salary. And what's a sad fact is that the state is absolutely powerless to deal with this epidemic of unhappiness, and I'm afraid that's how it's going to stay after the adoption of this bill. One illustration of this model. At a time when I was working in the cabinet of the minister, the minister fired a clerk who worked or was better said not to work on administrative matters. Although the said employee has not solved any cases in a year, the Official Court has made a decision to return the unemployed to the ministry for their work. I'm afraid there are a lot of public authorities in such cases, and this law does not sanction, in the right way, not solving administrative cases or so on. the silence of the administration. 30 days for the settlement of the ordinary examination procedure or 60 days for the specific examination procedure and the provision of non-resolvement of the case within that time period shall mean the automatic refusal of the party's request and the possibility to declare a complaint or to initiate a administrative dispute, it seems absolutely insufficient to combat and combat this famous general silence of the administration. I'm afraid that without imposing sanctions for non-resolving cases within a reasonable period of time, there will be no positive shifts in this regard. In that sense, another key point should be mentioned. Despite the planned training of workers and workers who or who work on these jobs, I am afraid that we are doing an account without innkeepers because the envisaged reform of the state administration from the governance model to the governance model will be done by the same people, some of whom are not able to solve any administrative subject a year, and in spite of their education, it seems to me that since the law does not provide any sanctions for unemployment. Another argument that makes me doubt the real implementation of this law, all its good intentions and solutions, despite the current implementation of the Law on the right to access information that I consider to be one of the key laws for the transformation of the state apparatus from the ruling steering system. And the 2007 report on the implementation of this law says that the Law on the right to access information is a decoration law whose sole purpose is to convince the European Union and the UN that we are a democratic country with a high degree of valorisation so-called. The civil values of society. I remind you, the data presented in that report are just incredible in terms of the number of requests for access to information, and it immediately tells all those who have worked on these jobs in public authorities that something really important is wrong. The document makers of the competent and central state administration office were aware that a total of 3670 requests for all public authorities were alarmingly small, so they better gave an unambiguous explanation that the reason for the major decline in the requirements received was in ways of availability of the information, i.e. that the information is now published on the websites, that the presses are organised, that regular annual reports are published, etc., etc. Whether or not to be noted, so is the report on the implementation of this law last year, i.e. 2008. These alarmingly low figures indicate, of course, that while ruling for several years, they have been implementing a deliberate policy of closing public authorities from citizens, media and interested public, and that HDZ and partners consider this law to be an irrelevant and meaningless document and an ordinary interference. What I'm saying is that the implementation of the Law on the right to access information speaks of a drastic decline in democratic standards and an increasing closure of the non-transparentity of the work of the public authority in the last few years. Therefore, despite all the good parties of the new and modernized Law on General Administrative Procedure, I do not believe that there is a genuine desire in the ruling set to transform the state apparatus from the mode of governance to the mode of governance and I only hope that time will deny me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30351	Thank you, colleague. Next comes the debate of the distinguished fellow who applied, counterpart Ivo Grbic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30352	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. I reminded the great that not the General Administrative Procedure Act adopted as a federal law in the Republic of Croatia in 1991, and it was passed in 1956, following the example of the Austrian Law on Administrative Procedure and the Law on Implementation of the 1930s, as well as the former Old Yugoslav Law on General Administrative Procedure of 1930. Certainly, the new social environment, given the minor changes so far and the addition of the General Administrative Procedure Act, requires the need for its modernisation and full reforms, especially in the light of the new European standards of public administration and the strong development of information and communication technology that modern countries of Europe have developed long ago. The main objective of the reform is to strengthen administrative capacity to the level at which public administration will be able to effectively implement domestic legislation and the acquis of the European Union, i.e. direct public administration towards citizens, entrepreneurs and society as a whole, and the main feature of public administration reform is based on the 2008/2011 State Administration Reform Strategy. the year the government adopted in March 2008. The proposal of this new ZUP is regulated in a more modern and modern manner by a number of legal institutes, and following the laws on the general administrative process of developed democracies, following many new solutions. The introduction into the law of the Institute of a Single Administrative Place allows citizens to come to a solution through communication with only one public authority, i.e. an administrative act requiring the adoption of several public-legal bodies. Realisation of the very principle is all in one place through the Institute of Single Management, in line with trends in the rule of the European Union that seek to reduce administrative barriers and simplify the procedure and contact of citizens and business entities with public-legal bodies. Furthermore, the new ZUP allows the use of modern achievements of information and communication technology in the administrative process. The definition of administrative matters or its clear definition and acceptance of the substantive, not formal definitions of the administrative act increases the level of protection of party rights since so far a large number of individual cases have not been clearly defined as administrative matters, i.e. other public-legal acts. An important newspaper in the Croatian administrative and legal system is the Institute of Administrative Contract. The Institute of Administrative Contracts shall open up the possibility of supplementing the laws in certain administrative areas, i.e. the development of an administrative act, i.e. a solution to an administrative contract concluded between public-law bodies and parties, but certainly under special conditions and in a way specified by specific law. The new ZUP has regulated the possibility of concluding an administrative contract on the enforcement of the right and the obligations set out in a solution which has resolved the administrative matter, its future futility, the conditions of amendment and the termination of the contract, in view of the significantly amended circumstances, as well as some other general provisions on the administrative contract necessary for its future uniform application. The new ZUP also adequately respects increasingly popular forms of public-private partnership as well as situations where entities outside the public administration system carry out public service activities. There have also been significant changes in the regulation of legal medicines compared to the current situation. However, although the number of legal medicinal products is reduced to the lowest possible extent, the new approach to the regulation of the matter of the administrative procedure covers all the relevant situations covered by the previous system of regular and extraordinary legal medicinal products. A brand-new Institute of Objections has been introduced, through which citizens have the possibility of legal protection in many cases which do not result in the adoption of a drastic administrative act, but are important for... their civil rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The New Law on General Administrative Procedure in a modern way regulates delivery, special forms of delivery, situations in which personal delivery is required and other similar issues. Interesting paper on the delivery of electronic delivery options to speed up the process. All of this is for the purpose of simplifying the delivery process and allowing delivery to be carried out in certain situations using means and formation-communication technology. As regards the costs, the new ZUP prescribes that the regular costs of the procedure are borne by the public-legal body, it also contains provisions on costs, rewards or fees for the work of the experts, translators, interpreters, witnesses, or other persons involved in the administrative procedure and also provides for the possibility that the public body may exempt the party from paying the costs if it finds that the party cannot bear the costs without damage to its own maintenance or maintenance of its family. The new General Administrative Procedure Act also clearly lays down the conditions of enforcement of the administrative act, determines the authorities responsible for the enforcement and lays down the principle of proportionality in enforcement. In particular, the Institute of Conduct through third parties is arranged and forced enforcement through fines as well as other issues related to the execution until the execution of a direct consent solution. Of course, for the successful application of the provisions of this new ZUP other than education, that is to say, the preparation of quality and effective management of administrative procedures and the settlement of administrative matters within the appropriate time-limit until the law enters into force is of exceptional importance and reforming the system of judicial control of administrative acts. It is expected that the Croatian Parliament will soon be referred to the Proposal for a Law on Administrative Disputes, as administrative trial is important for the quality implementation of the new ZUP and is a strong factor in the harmonisation and unity of administrative practice. For all these reasons, and believing that the proposal will accept opinions and proposals, the respective amendments to the parent committees, I support the adoption of a new Law on General Administrative Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30353	Thank you, colleague Grbic. Next is the debate of a distinguished colleague, Damir Sesvecan. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30354	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. So first of all, I will say that the General Administrative Procedure Act is undoubtedly the most important law under which they act and resolve in administrative matters state bodies, units of local and regional self-government and legal persons who have public authority within the scope of their work, established therefore by law, and defined by law as public legal bodies. For the rule of law and the functioning of the rule of law, it is in general essential that the proper and legal conduct of public authorities in the resolution of administrative matters and the well-organised administrative procedure, is a guarantee of the adoption of regulations and legal administrative acts. I would like to stress that this Law on a general administrative procedure, among other things, harmonizes domestic legislation with European Union legislation, and that its creation is supported by the European Union CARDS programme's support for public administration and public service reforms in 2003. And it is precisely public administration reform, along with judicial reform and the fight against corruption, that is to say, one of the most important areas for Croatia's accession to the European Union. I will repeat that, as has already been said and explained that the current Law on General Administrative Procedure was adopted in '56. in 1991 and all this time has not changed, except by decision of the Constitutional Court, which has been abolished two provisions of Article 209. Compared to that time, the new political, legal and economic system in the Republic of Croatia is aimed at harmonising with the acquis of the European Union and conditions the adoption of a new, more complex, more modern but simpler Law on General Administrative Procedure, which will correspond to the Croatian legal tradition but also of course to the European Union standards. As regards the adoption of this law, I also hold the importance of saying that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has, by means of its reform strategy for the 2008-2011 reform of the state administration, which was adopted in March last year, just set out the direction in which the reform will be implemented. This is to quote the direction of public administration towards citizens, entrepreneurs and society as a whole. The finding that public administration should be a service to citizens, that a citizen is in some way putting himself in a level playing field in relation to public administration through a certain form of cooperation, is also expressed in the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2008-2011 programme. During the drafting of this law, therefore, the legislative procedure since the first reading, and to this day there have been a lot of discussions, the largest number of proposals and suggestions has been included in this final proposal. And certainly, the proposer should also take into account the observations and proposals made by the working bodies of the Assembly which will certainly further improve the text of the law itself. In any case, today we have a very good law on general administrative procedure with institutes and solutions that are important for the protection of the legal interests of citizens who determine public administration as a public service. In that sense, the most significant new institute to be introduced by this Law, I hold an administrative contract. It stresses this very new role of the citizens of economic and of course other entities in relation to public administration which should contribute to reducing bureaucraticism and give greater level of legal certainty to citizens and all other parties in the process. A significant newspaper of this law, which I hold very significant, is the creation of legal opportunities for the use of modern achievements of information communication technology in administrative action. A particular emphasis in the law is placed on situations where certain entities outside the public administration system carry out public service activities and on the need for their control by public authorities. I will also mention the provisions relating to legal medicines where regular and extraordinary legal medicines are reduced, but at the same time the number of administrative activities covered by them. I will also point out that in relation to the first reading, these Final Bills also regulate new institutes, such as the principles of protecting the rights of parties and the official use of language and letter, the principles of assistance to foreigners, etc. So there are some reasons why I will support the adoption of this Law on General Administrative Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30355	Thank you very much. And the final application for an individual hearing, colleague Anna Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30356	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Here, a lot is said today about this I would say to a very important procedural law under the Law on Prosecution, the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on Administrative Procedure. Almost this law unison is supported in the debate and it really wouldn't make sense to repeat everything. But I want to say that I will certainly support the adoption of this law. I would also like to say that Croatia has an administrative procedural tradition and, therefore, this law will not actually be a revolution, but will actually be an evolution and will bring about a number of improvements in order to achieve an effective administrative process, a transparent process that will preserve the balance between the protection of public interest and ensuring the protection of the rights and freedom of every citizen. It's not a waste of time to repeat that it's an extremely important matter. Unfortunately, here we have heard several times today that there are few administrative experts in Croatia both practitioners and in the scientific field, and I would say that the consequence of this long-standing neglect of the administration area is both administrative procedure and I would say administrative trial, because the administration has been experiencing something alienated for many years, some bureaucratic litter, an area where our fellow lawyers or those first-degree lawyers who failed in the judiciary, in the economy, and then ended up in the administration. On the contrary, in Western European countries administration is a highly esteemed service. Only the most excellent students were given the opportunity to get jobs and advance on the service scale and reach high administrative positions. Let's not distract ourselves with how important this is. We all talk a lot about judicial duty, about judges, and very little about how important things are dealt with in administrative proceedings, very little about civil servants, officials who handle it, and how they deal with property legal relations, about exemptions, about the return of property under the Return Act, about customs and tax cases, in the first ones from pension and health insurance, building permits, environmental protection, etc. So all extremely important areas for the citizens. It is precisely aware of the importance of the state administration for both the state administration and the state of human rights and freedoms, but certainly also for the development of the economy in March 2007, which provides for a series of measures to modernise and improve the administration in light of the expectations of both citizens and the economy and the tradition of modern democracy, which certainly includes the Republic of Croatia, which public administration and the state administration entails as a service of citizens, assistance and insurance for the exercise of their rights, and not in any way as a lever of power that may be given to someone and someone else will punish and challenge their right. So I support the adoption of this law and perhaps just to look back at a few newspapers, not wanting to repeat it. First of all, we see that this law is shortened to say that there are hundreds of provisions less, which in no case means that it is consensually constrained, but that it has received a more modern, more systematic and simpler statement which is good. It is also good news that burdens the heads of the administrative authorities, that they must stand, actually sign any act or solution adopted by this administrative body, is already left to authorised persons, officials and thus contribute to professionalisation, but certainly also the responsibilities of civil servants. Of course, it is extremely valid to assess and assess corruption risks permanently and to take measures to prevent them. So in this context, here, in order not to remain here is today a read code which was valid during Maria Teresa, and I would say that it should be kept in mind, not in this law, but here in the Anti-Corruption Strategy, that one whole chapter refers to corruption risks and measures to prevent them from being in the state administration, and also here we read in November 2006 and in 2006 respectively, a code for civil servants was adopted. The Department of Ethics was established in the Central Office of the State Administration, and the establishment of an Ethics Commission in which representatives of state officials of experts, the trade union of the Croatian Parliament, all on the grounds that what is in the law is prescribed to be ethically and ultimately respected and implemented in practice. It is also a good norm and a provision on the explicit general application of this law in all administrative matters, and that only as an exception to certain issues in certain administrative areas when it is necessary and when it is not contrary to the basic provisions of this law, then it can also prescribe a different procedure. It is also a good application of this law to a wider circle in view of privatisation, liberalisation in services, in public services, in view of agencies, of private legal persons with public authority. It is a good provision, as well as the extension of this law to the conclusion of administrative contracts, which is a further contribution to transparency, but I would also say approaching the partner relationship between the state and citizens in resolving administrative matters. And perhaps eventually something about a unique administrative place that I hold extremely important newspapers in this law that is certainly progressing in relation to the exercise of citizens' rights. It is well imagined, it writes well, only I am asking a question which is the insurance of citizens that this will actually happen, so that in order to achieve a party's right, if the party needs to conduct several administrative or other procedures that will allow it in a unique administrative place to file all requests. What are the measures, and the instruments to do so, and I now associate it with that of Article 47, the famous paragraph 2 which states that the official person will provide, under official duty, information on the facts of which the official legal authority is governed by the procedure, i.e. another public legal authority or court. This, I stress, is not a newspaper. This has been in the law so far, and we've heard from a colleague of Lesar, we've heard from other MPs. We know as citizens in the end how many times and it's almost an exception, that the administrative body has done so, and in law it has written. And so once again, once again, I actually appeal, it may not be possible to legislate by law, but certainly in the implementation of this law to really allow citizens to be able to do what they write to be and to be implemented. And here at the very end once again about the definition of an administrative act, what we have concluded here and on the board, I don't really think it's quite clear and unequivocal the concept and that in practice there might be another misunderstanding about the concept of administrative act and the governing act, and I don't know, I'm not sure that the very changes that we've heard in the Law on Administrative Disputes will be fully resolved and will avoid any misunderstandings in application. But here's one reason why it would be good to discuss both of these laws together, but we'll see what happens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30357	Thank you very much. We have two applications for replication. First of all, dear colleague Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30358	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's to an esteemed colleague, he would replicate in that part of her debate when he touched the definitions of the administrative act and the administrative one in Article 2. So, what this administrative act is by its definition and by the current provision of the law that we will have in practice. In my opinion, it's also a good definition, but it's too wide and it's too broad to interpret and I think we've missed an opportunity or we're just missing an opportunity to use one negative definition, so that's because the administrative act isn't going to eliminate all the situations that might arise when we're in doubt whether something is an administrative act or not. Also thinking in the sense that this will be removed by the adoption of the Law on Administrative Disputes and that in this article, we will resolve these doubts a little doubt about those solutions because this is exactly where we define and we can define a negative definition of the administrative act itself, and of course that solutions and the Law on Administrative Disputes would only improve the situation we want to avoid or regulate in the right way. In fact, the General Administrative Procedure Act should have a definition, a quality definition of what this administrative act is. Not only for the sake of an administrative act, but for all that that fact results in legal protection, the possibility of, therefore, legal medicinal products being declared. If we leave this formulation and continue to have a situation of doubt, doubt whether something is an administrative act and then bring both people and the entire system into this situation which is not in the end line of good. It's not good and I think we're all together now, we need to put a little more energy into it, a little effort to remove this situation, perhaps before the Law on Administrative Disputes enters the parliamentary procedure, and, of course, with colleague Anna and all those who have commented on it in a way and discussed that the Law on General Administrative Procedure and the Law on Administrative Disputes should be seen as one whole and, at the same time, discussed in the same or similar institutes that I, of course, support such thinking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30359	Thank you very much. Answer. There's no need. There's also an application for the replica of my colleague Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30360	Dear colleagues, dear Vice President. When you were talking about management, you mentioned government and schooling in the administration. So this is not about the administrative dispute, but you're probably familiar with the French example, probably with the French example, the Strasbourg school that works, actually educates top management people in one state like France, and you're probably all familiar with the way they're doing in the service through the knowledge exams, the specific knowledge exams at the administration, to the very top where something that's been pandan to our secretary of state is employed and even through public appearances and television duels where then a better job at a particular ministry is being followed by citizens and where really top experts are being hired. When you mention it in the administration, and when the government is mentioned, then you should clearly say when we will move on to such a model then we will have a really far, far better system and selecting state secretaries who, unfortunately, are sometimes excellent, and there are those who choose to fill the quota or do not know in any other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30361	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished colleague Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30362	My dear colleague, I've been discussing the bill, I haven't talked about it, but good. So, first of all, the State Secretary is a state official, and he's not a state official. If I understand correctly, you were talking about the secretary of state. But here I am now reading, as I have already said, the code of ethics, the Ethics Commission, also in order to strengthen the professionalism of the state administration as a prerequisite for preventing corruption, is given particular attention to the procedure of admission to the state service, promotion, improvement, evaluation, award of civil servants, the Law on State officials, the Regulation on the opening and execution of public tender, the internal advertising, in the state service, is a detailed procedure for admission to the state service. In two years of application of the law and regulation, further progress has been made in harmonising the policy of election of officials. The objective criteria for the selection of candidates include checks on the fulfilment of formal conditions, knowledge tests, skills, and talks with the tendering committee, the evaluation procedure was prescribed by the Law on State Employees, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30363	Thank you very much. And we've exhausted this debate. Finally, on behalf of the promoter, the Secretary of State, Mr. Piculjan, appeared. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30364	I've been thanking everyone for this really two hours long and very proud debate. Such were the discussions on committees, and I thank you for the support of all the clubs that have in principle and in almost all the solutions supported this new one, this regulation that will soon be adopted. What I would like to answer in a short time in 5, 6 minutes to all MPs, to every MP who has given his pain today to this debate. What's certainly difficult and what the proposing has failed, but the question is whether or not the matter of this law is to define acts of conduct. This, here, is where the Proposer stuck to defining even the administrative act, rather than administrative matters, which means resolving the administrative procedure. It is certain that through the amendments to the Law on Administrative Disputes, we will resolve the doubt of Article 66 and the doubt that administrative judicial protection against the act of government will not be but the question is whether we will resolve whether there will be administrative, whether there will be any judicial protection related to the acts of rule. It's a question that's not so simple at all, it's easy to solve at all, a negative definition in this sense might be possible, but it would probably drop one part of the solution in defining the administrative act, which is why the applicant didn't go this really deep, difficult solution, and I think the practice will show that we were right. We have consulted the best constitutional legal experts and administrative legal experts. What matters is, what most of you have been saying, and that's what you've been connecting this law, this process instrument for the operation of the administration with the state of the government. It's just a few words and a principled remark. This law will certainly be a good, quality instrument for the management, management procedures, the acceleration of procedures that the administration does but to improve the state and public administration, it will require intervention, and many MPs have spoken in the legislation, but it will also require long-term practice of developing a ladder system in the Republic of Croatia as well as employment in state service and progress in the state service. This could be talked about a lot, and it is not the time or place to open this issue now, which is actually more about official law and official legislation. With regard to the comments of the HNS Representatives Club, which supported this law, we believe that this insufficient development, the single administration of the place, has just been completed by the Committee on Legislatives, has complemented our proposal with the amendment and thus defined the obligation to establish a single place in each public body. Electronic communication seems to be very well open to us by this law, it cannot be fully regulated by the General Administrative Procedure Act, the Office Business Regulation and a series of specific laws will also complement the possibility of electronic communication in the administration. In any event, it will be made possible at the request of the party, at the party's explicit request, at the request of the party or where it is lawfully allowed. We think that this is enough at this point and that it fits the needs and the real state of administration and elastic enough to further develop this possibility of electronic communication. About the purpose of the administrative contract I do not see a colleague, but it can be discussed, we chose between two models, very carefully we chose the French model modified in Croatian way, having experience in Croatian concession law, Croatian public private partnership law. And we said it's better at this point to be more relatively careful to come in and specifically legislate the matter of administrative contracts. Trust in administrative contracts is no one systematically and doctrinally deals in Croatia. Therefore, it seems to us that this model for Croatia is now good. If the practice shows that we can be more open and go with a solution to the complete substituting of the act with the contract practice it will bring and regulate a special one, but then intervention in this law. Otherwise the question was and... the matter of the matter of administrative contracts does not always have to be and is not always regulated by the General Administrative Procedure Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here we are, we've made this step that's at this point seemed to be enough for us. In the case of what the HDZ Representatives Club wanted, warning of the importance and that is, a widespread practice of special legislation and specialist lists, it is precisely an indication that this, too, that we think it will be the best solution, the amendment went to the Committee on Law which we will accept that the Government actually concludes that the government is going to review all these special procedures and probably one large series of them will fall apart, thus this will become a real law on general administrative procedure, meaning the general rule for most administrative areas. About, there were a lot of speeches, colleague Lesar, MP Lesar spoke about, a number, a series, he opened several questions about the silence of the administration. I have to say that all the answers he didn't find in the law, they're all in the law. The law offered a silent instrument in the administration, set deadlines of 30, 60 days, set deadlines for first-degree resolution, second-degree settlement and thus legally resolved the matter. And that's, and the same anomalies that exist in the administration are being solved by other instruments, instruments of tight responsibility that someone pointed out is insufficient and instruments of raising the quality of the administration itself and not the procedural law here can do but can't solve, can do much, can't solve things to the end. Here is what my colleague Josipovic has also warned, a general frontal adoption of requests from a party that would be regulated in this regulation, in fact he warns and warns well, at this point in Croatia, is not possible, therefore we refer to specific legislation and we say in the field of science, this prednisum will not be prescribed, in the area of trust law, the foundation of law, the association of the rights of some other solutions, in fact you will have this positive advantage which will actually go to the party in case of silence of the administration. Among other things, counterpart Lovrin mentioned this, Article 47. Obtaining documents under official duty. It is clear that this obligation exists under current solutions, it will exist later. It is important to bring it to life, but I hope that this legal instrument and good administrative instrument, improved now by new solutions, will become increasingly applicable. And we have sanctions when it doesn't seem. Normally, the question is immediately raised whether our official law, official strict legislation is enough to simply answer the question of non-compliance, non-compliance with the rights of citizens they also have under the General Administrative Procedure Act. There will probably need a significant intervention. In the silence of the administration, I say again, when it is justified for 30 days, when it is an unwarranted second-degree body only solves the matter or gives only 15 days to solve the first-degree body. Therefore, an important improvement in the composition of the solution. There are no colleagues, Lek, but the special state expert exam has been resolved so that its amendment is more practically consumed and has been accepted in a way that this special state expert exam is not required, but will go into the education system. And around education, I don't see a representative of the lady, I think her name is Holly, I don't need to be afraid that education will be done by those who don't know or those who have somehow misapplyed the regulations. It's just not true. Very few of you have experts in this area and in this area will be included the best experts in education of state and public officials. We simply have scarce resources and we will know how to use them. I think a very good example was ultimately working on this law. All the other questions went in fact and a favorite for the solutions offered by the applicant and we seem to have offered one better, better quality instrument for the conduct of public-legal bodies. It's not perfect, it's going to be upgraded, but I think big interventions, I hope big interventions won't be this law. Practice will bring improvements, but major interventions, systematic ways almost certainly won't. And what I am underlining again, and which points to the importance of the administrative right that very few people choose for their careers, is that the European law that is so much spoken of, the dominant European administrative right, and it will now require much greater education and much greater education in the European Union, I would say, specialising people in administrative law, and then in European administrative law. This is how we will live in the European Administrative Area, and I hope this law will not fail, and I hope it can help. I thank you and the amendments will be made on Friday and I think they are almost all acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30365	Thank you very much. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We're done arguing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30366	Final draft law on general administrative procedure. The amendment was submitted by representative Josip Leko, representative Milanka Opačić, Committee for Law and Representative Ivo Josipovic. Secretary of State Zoran Pichuljan, please be aware of the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30367	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30368	And first, we'll have amendments to the Legislative Committee. Amendment 1 to Article 9?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30369	Mr. President, we accept all amendments to the Legislative Committee, except for part of Amendment 5, which would be accepted in the next... Amendment 5, Article 23(2) is amended as follows: in the public-legal bodies, an official who manages the procedure or resolves administrative matters must have appropriate professional training, the necessary working experience and a state expert examination. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Paragraph 3 is deleted. Article 4 is replaced by the following: In this way, all employees and all employees working on these jobs must be in public-legal bodies, not only in state bodies, have a state-run expert exam, not a special state expert exam... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30370	The chairman of the board?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30371	Formation accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30372	That amendment was adopted in the amended form. And these amendments to the Legislative Committee become an integral part of the law. The amendment of a representative of Joseph Lek?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30373	In this way, practically through the appropriate amendment of the Legislative Committee, the adoption of amendments to the Committee on Legislatives, practically this amendment becomes unnecessary and I don't know if there is no need to regulate it anymore, this Article 171 disappears, and that is that. We don't accept it, but the MP can pull it because it's gone, it's not an object... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30374	Comrade Leko, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30375	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30376	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30377	Retracted. And Ms. Representative Milanka Opacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30378	In part, we accept Mrs Opačić's amendment in a way that adds paragraph 8 in Article 64, which reads: "When a witness is a minor, it will be heard with the presence of a legal representative." We think that in this way we are covering all possible situations when a minor is in various administrative procedures in front of various administrative bodies can be a witness, for example in the school section or school law and something else. There, that's our explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30379	It can be said by my colleague Opacic. Therefore, the amendment in this changed form was accepted. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendments to Mr Ivo Josipovic's representative. Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30380	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30381	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30382	It is accepted but in a changed version that would read: "Adddition of Article 86(5) in a way that is behind the words: "the box" add the words "or if it is not at the door or other for the recipient a visible place".
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30383	A consensual colleague, Josipovic? It's consensual. So the amendment accepted in this changed form. Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30384	Amendment 3 is, in fact, now consumed through amendments to the Committee on Law and resolved so that there is no need to accept it, it is almost in equal terms resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30385	Thank you very much. Amendment withdrawn. Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30386	In part, we accept Amendment 4 by adopting the proposed amendment to the word "zero" in the word "zero" in the part of the law which regulates the issue of the futility of administrative contracts in such a way that in the name and provision of Article 152, the words "zero" are replaced by the words "zero" in the corresponding decline. I don't think that's necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30387	Amendment withdrawn. ... It has been accepted in a modified form. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. Thank you very much. I am voting on the final draft law on general administrative procedure. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? Consistent with 109 votes adopted by the General Administrative Procedure Act, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30388	Point 4. is - Final draft law on illicit advertising, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 280 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 164 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Economic Affairs. We received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. She is a representative of the proposing state secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Tamara Obradović Mazal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30389	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. We are in front of us as part of chapter 28 of the negotiations. Consumer and health protection, one part of the legislative package that we are further harmonising with the acquis of the European Union. In this case, it is about taking over Directive 114 from 2006 which regulates the free market between two traders, two advertisers, between two legal persons, but also natural persons, if it is about independent activities and the possibility of advertising its own activity in the media area, which as a subordinate effect also has on us citizens as consumers. In particular, this law regulates the relationship between the two traders, between the two competitors or competitors on the regulated market. And what does he actually prescribe or regulate? This law, by adopting a directive which is the maximum directive, means the provisions of this Directive enter into the norm of Croatian law in a maximum way, prohibits two things that are defined as illicit advertising. On the one hand, it prohibits unfair, unfair comparative advertising where, underestimating someone else's product, the product of your competitor you advertise your own product. This would be approximately, here let me be that since we haven't had it regulated so far in our legal system, I also show in some way literally where two competitors on the camera market, or one of them gives priority to their product by pointing out in a very unfair way the characteristics of a competitive camera, overlapping it and thus bringing customers, consumers into one situation thinking that something is wrong with that camera. Thus, such a kind of unfair, unfair comparative advertising is what prohibits this law or this final draft law. On the other hand, we are all being exposed as citizens and slightly misleading ads, ads that promise us almost impossible things as consumers, things that we as ordinary citizens cannot check, test, undergo a laboratory test to really make sure that this is the case. However, if, tomorrow, in our media space, this is exactly the kind of ad that is of interest to the distinguished parliamentary deputies, and I think that we women are more inclined to react to these ads, I believe that if someone promises you to iron out absolutely all of your advantages and experience that has accumulated on your face, of course, that absolutely all of us will stand in line at the store where this product can be bought. And pharmaceutical companies, or cosmetic companies, can have a real profit, a real profit drop or profits because they actually fake results that can be achieved by such treatment after a few minutes. This law also addresses one subtle way of misleading advertising where you don't actually put any other product in the context of your own in order to give your own advantage, you don't promise me to say that either the hills or the valley. But you're suggesting through your advertising message as in the case of this chicken where the decline is obtained at an annual level from two competing companies in America was $4, and 11 million, respectively, you suggest that your chicken does not contain certain ingredients, and this suggestion actually indicates to consumers that all other chicken, i.e. chicken produced and placed on the market of other competing companies, contains exactly those ingredients that you suggest through the message that you do not actually contain them to transmit to the public. This law therefore allows the following directive in the section relating to misleading and parallel, illicit comparative advertising to enable such a trader who feels affected by such advertising because the competitor in the market is pressing a lawsuit before the court. That lawsuit also has the form of a collective lawsuit. It is a new instrument that we are introducing both by this law and which you will also get in the Consumer Protection Act with which we will go towards the Parliament as a proposal and in that part, this collective lawsuit actually works, but collective implementation of the exercise acts erga omnes against all traders, although they do not necessarily have and do not appear as actively legitimate in the process. The court ruling has the effect of erga omnes on all affected traders by such an approach in advertising. In addition, during the duration of the execution of the judgment, that is, through the procedure of enforcement of each of the traders in the branch, that is to say, the activity involved in the case of a discrepancy ad, the collective implementation of the judgment may initiate the procedure of enforcement even if they did not take part in the procedure themselves. Of course, there's a new moment. I'd like to point to him. This is specifically about Article 10. Namely, the directive, the acquis, both through court practice and through its norm, which it seeks to achieve. When a dissatisfied trader, for example, sues his competitor, the burden of evidence as usual in our legal system, of course, lies on the prosecutor. I, as a prosecutor, must prove that what is claimed to be incorrect. In this case, as an exception to the next philosophy of the directive, which requires Member States to find a mechanism to really implement it, it requires in fact that the first hearing determines whether the defendant, therefore the one who has been sued, is able to prove that this is actually true. At the first hearing and before a temporary measure, he must give the judge evidence that these fights really disappear within three minutes. The burden of evidence under Article 10 is transferred from the prosecutor to the defendant, because the defendant must present to the judge the evidence, the truthfulness of his ad and the truth that this fact, the disputed fact indeed works and indeed works within three or five minutes as already stated in the ad. I would also mention that, in the case of active, especially in the case of active legislation, the Government will, of course after adoption, adopt a sublegal act laying down the powers to launch a collective instrument of legal protection, i.e. in the segment of appeal and implementation of the law, which will primarily be the ceva associations, i.e. institutions gathered on certain activities as their business interest. For example, the Croatian Chamber of crafts, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which also has its courts' honours, i.e. its codes, rules of conduct. And such institutions, and also on the basis of our public invitation to report all institutions that are recognised in the implementation of this law to have an active legitimacy based on this, based on the adopted law. Once again, this is a novel. This so far in terms of the ban on advertising affecting a fair match between two, two business natural or legal persons, we did not have between the two traders. We also have one exception to the general principle of our legal system. It does not, therefore, act primarily on consumers. So, according to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia as consumers. But as a secondary effect, especially after the ban on such advertising and the rightful execution of the verdict. Of course, such banned ads have an effect on citizens who are based on such misleading ads to entrust their financial resources to them. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30390	Thank you. The Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, on the Economy. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30391	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed secretary of state with an associate, esteemed colleague and colleague. In principle, the HDZ Club supports every legal framework aimed at protecting consumers and health, and thus supports this proposal for a law on illicit advertising, although it aims to protect traders from misleading advertising and the negative consequences of misleading advertising. My bill also provides for assumptions under which comparative advertising is allowed. Generally speaking, economic advertising pays attention to the public on a product or service or even more precisely, it is a paid mass form of communication, specific content with the aim of informing, reminding and encouraging a potential customer to action in relation to a particular product, idea or service. Information and communication function is one of the most important tasks and functions of advertising because customers inform about the product, its technical characteristics, its characteristics, its place of sale, the price, but also the usefulness information the customer can expect from the product. Information is extremely important because the customer can compare the products and decide which product is more acceptable to it by obtaining information on a larger number of substrates. If there is nothing to compare with, then it is not, nor is the decision more authentic in the choice of products. This bill prohibits misleading advertising that leads to misinformation or is likely to lead to the error of the persons to whom it is addressed. The developed market and developed competitive relations are the presumption of economic development and society in general, and since advertising, i.e. advertising, has a direct and exceptional impact on the functioning of the market, that is, the distortion of market legality, the need for legal regulation of this area has indeed arisen. What is the power of the advertising industry most credible is the fact that, annually in the world, only for online advertising, it spends $65 billion, which is in fact only 7 to 10% of the total spending of money in the overall advertising industry, estimated somewhere at $700 to $750 billion a year. The exact data on advertising costs in Croatia is almost impossible to obtain because there is no methodology that systematically collects and shows data, such data on the consumption of money in advertising. But what can be concluded with certainty is that advertising is most invested in the financial sector, the telecommunications sector, nutrition and personal health. And so did those activities that usually, but also at this time of financial crisis, make the biggest profit, and rarely the extra profit. In 2008 alone, financial houses spent $13.5 billion on advertising, or direct marketing, and spent 53m in Croatia's financial institutions in a year on advertising. Slaven Fisher, president of the Croatian Association for Market Communications, estimates that there are many different estimates of the entire advertising market in the Republic of Croatia, but that the most realistic one is about 730 million euros spent on promotion in the Republic of Croatia. The 730m euros spent annually testifys that we are exposed to the great aggression of advertisers and that the media space is significantly changing, that advertisers are increasingly occupying it both in written media and in television and on the Internet, and that despite the economic and financial crisis that is expected to reduce advertising data for October and November last year, the case is opposite in Croatia. In fact, more than 41 000 ads were published in the press in two months, unlike the same period of 2007 when 34 000 ads were published. In the same period and the number of ads broadcast on TV has also increased by 7%. All this suggests that the crisis has not affected the advertising market in the Republic of Croatia for the time being. It is hoped that this proposed law will help remove negative phenomena in the advertising area, and we are witnessing daily and different types of advertising that are contrary to the fundamental purpose of advertising, but contrary to fundamental, social and ethical values. Advertising very often rather than informing consumers strives to create needs, tries to suggest material value as status symbols, tries to create lifestyles and what is socially particularly unacceptable that advertising is very often trying to create success symbols. It was once a study of what people, or potential customers want, and today advertising is increasingly trying to impose new needs, creating new desires, and sometimes creating addictions. It tries to promote appearance, promote youth and beauty with a dose of aggression and exclusion through advertising, women are shown too often as sex symbols, and men as competitive and obsessed with success. Regardless of the economic justification of advertising, it is hoped that this bill will help improve the quality of advertising and reduce negative phenomena in advertising, in which a person is rarely humiliated because it is shown, for example, that he is able to stand still and not because he has seen a car. Or when nothing can happen to a man, even though he's going through red lights at intersections, the only reason that can happen to him is because he's talking on his cell phone. Or when beer is advertised as law, when credit cards advertise they have a heart, and with a bottle of beer they can drink 20 or 30 beers. Or when a woman is portrayed as an object by a public message that she is adaptable to all the bases. There is also a phenomenon when advertising is present, even though it is prohibited by law. It is known that the law prohibits advertising tobacco products. And we're very often in a situation where we can't even pay a bill on a gas station because when we sign or take change back, the desk on which a card is signed stands cigarettes with a tobacco manufacturer's commercial. How to advertise in parallel and allowed? Well, I'm free to bring out an anecdote as the English do with a certain amount of humor. In fact, in one street in the city center of London, there were many barbers. They called it razor street and how she once had the idea to be better than the others, to have more traffic than the others, he puts the inscription on the barbershop "Best Razor in the City". And of course, after a few days traffic increases, others fall, but the neighbor thinks about how to think and write a sign on his "Best Razor in the World" shop. Of course it went to him, too. But the third one gets to figure out how to find each other and by thinking for a few weeks, put a sign on his barbershop "Best Razor in the Street." It's one example of funny and allowed comparative advertising. But with us, as in Croatia, we read an ad of olive oil only 20 kuna. And I'm gonna go buy that oil when the oil bottle says it only consists of 2% of olive oil. It's an example of illegal advertising. Or the same time as with jumbo posters and via television we get messages and newspapers so we can go on endlessly free phone calls. It's misleading advertising, it's inadmissible advertising, because there's nothing for free, there's no free phone call, except there's free cheese, but only in mice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30392	Thank you. Free cheese in mice only. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richemberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30393	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State. We have before us a proposal for a legal text that would regulate an unsettled area in a way that meets the standards of the European Union. It is a space of advertising in which directly, of course, those processes that threaten or respect consumer rights occur. There are a number of ecluent examples that say that the media advertising space in the Republic of Croatia is actually stifling, and perhaps even polluting advertising that is fundamentally misleading. The fact is that marketing has always relied on consumer emotions, and sometimes on gullibility, but for decades or maybe even centuries of commercial work has developed a sense of sensitivity among customers themselves, and then responsibility to public authorities, in the country to prevent such forms of advertising that actually count on the consumer’s leniency. Every day, we have witnessed a whole series of such cases that have simply not been sanctioned by us, because it was worth suing someone for fraud and proving in a very long procedure that caused you damage so that you could contain such phenomena. On the other hand, we are witnessing the appearances of a whole series of companies that intercede certain products that turn out to be none of their own, which turns out to have no address at all, but function across a post office box and which turns out to be when they cheat on a number of customers to actually disappear from the market. See the magazines in which quasi medical products are advertised. Let's just say one example, which is treatment, which is to suppress baldness. Take a look at the parallel photos of products that are advertised, which guarantee actually hair loss, so you'll see that it's actually the same photos that are retouched in the photoshop, which is photo montage. It's absolutely illegal advertising because it's actually pure fraud. This also applies to a whole range of products that are guaranteed almost magical weight loss, rejuvenation, skin smoothing, everything that people especially in middle age are particularly sensitive to. By relying on the emotion of a man who simply wants to be perfect, it is in his nature to be perfect, they give him information to define a product that cannot lead to improvement. Because what one of my friends, mother nature and father cartoonist would say is that you have what you have and it's hard to change. Of course it's banalizing. It's possible to change with spirit, from spirit, and that's the best change. But what we see almost daily in the magazines, intended for a certain part of the audience, is a whole series of frauds. One of those cases that devastated agriculture in my neighborhood happened in the '30s. In fact, it is known that the Turopol pig is an animal that lived all over Posavina and Turopolje because it was known for its meat quality, because the animal was slowly growing because it was fed in nature, by the jury, naturally grown, so it was not farmed, and it was quite fat, given the famous fat, famous beetroot. In the '30s, oil factories that actually invited people to get rid of fat, because it is unhealthy and that the only oil from rape, corn or other plant resources is actually healthy. Today we know that this is not true, but precisely because the propaganda action of the producers of oil in the '30s was so aggressive, almost complete agriculture of that area was destroyed, which was in the part where it relied on the cultivation of the Turopolian pig. Not only did it devast the farming, but it led to the fact that the Turopol pig was almost completely extinct and that it took a lot of, very much effort to restore it and that today we can say that where it really comes from, and that is Turopolje, we can say that we have several hundred throats and high quality indigenous Croatian animals. In order to achieve this, experts had to go to Lonjsko polje to look for those animals that had at least 51% of the genetic heritage as well as the Turopolian pig. So it's an eclectic example of a form of advertising that can totally devastate part of your economy. One of the favorite ads, for example. in the case of manufacturers of various detergents, i.e. cleaning products, the so-called parallel advertising, where you have a table full of different products that you just need to throw away and replace with this product that is advertised. There should be no label on the bottle that you will throw first in the frame to figure out which product it is, because more or less everyone has protected forms of their bottles. So it's also an eclectic example of comparative unauthorized advertising. Being planted on our cigarette boxes is a special story. The light, super light, ultra-light, and actually the effect of all these health cigarettes is equal. Therefore, European Union countries no longer know and do not allow such a construction of products that actually lead to confusion, i.e. to the delusion of consumers who think that using something called ultralight, or superlight are actually far more protected than the negative effects of smoking, than those that consume so-called. regular cigarettes. Whether this law will produce positive effects in a short period of time is difficult to say, but the first time it appears, a consumer who will realize that this law allows him to have a high level of protection of rights, so when he is cheated on by the judicial authority and gets it, many manufacturers will well imagine how he will play by the emotions of customers and whether he will continue to use illicit advertising funds. People trust television more than any other media, because you know what they say, which wasn't on TV, it didn't happen. So, if we make it through television as a unfair competitor, sell the story of our product, it's a far greater influence, than through all the other media together. And that is why it is very important that certain councils, such as the Council for Telecommunications, or electronic media, observe in the application of this law whether abuse is taking place, as it is also part of the story of our television programme. Even though competitors are likely to take care of each other. In any case, it may take one day to amend this law, but we welcome it and hope it will get a positive effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30394	Thank you. SDP club Mr. Representative Josip Leko. He's gone. He's losing his word. Ms. Representative Maria Petir, the club of representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30395	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. Surely, in today’s day of huge marketing competition, advertising has reached the extent of excessive exaggeration, and we could even say with certainty that we are living today at the time of advertising terror. We are aware mainly that the ads we see on television are aimed at making the most of the sales i.e. profit, but it's mostly a hoax, too. Most people, when they see these ads, do not think rationally and of course buy the products and services offered. We usually meet advertising on television, on radio stations, in newspapers, on the Internet, on posters, panoramics, brochures and lenses. As an example of deception, we can list ads in which a girl necessarily wears a liter of detergent in her evening purse, advertising for maskers in which the actress wears artificial eyelashes, knife commercials in which you must buy a set of 20 knives in the next 5 minutes, in order to naturally get a huge set of free gifts to go along with it. The most seductive topics can include food that is so tempting on packagings, posters, ads, but what happens when you buy this wonderful product and look inside, you generally realize that there is no taste, no smell, no color, no nutritional value. Or when pictures of you from Fast Food's chains lure you in, you're always awkwardly surprised. In America, an action has been filed against a company to advertise unproven claims about their yogurt, which is also sold in Croatia, arguing that it is healthier, easier than regular yogurt, and, of course, it is charged 30% more. The company spent more than $100 million on spreading misleading messages. It has not been proven that the bacteria in yogurt serve to prevent disease or that they have special benefits for older people. In Croatia, we could also give an example of mobile advertising that is advertised at zero kuna, and then it actually turns into the fact that you pay that phone right under the pretext, the money you gave, actually for the use that you will get in the next 10 months. A lot of commercials, for example. Mobile operators are based on the most important content written at the end in small letters. The first wave makes us look great, sometimes predetermined, and in the end, it's not all the way we thought it would be. how the commercial was presented to us. There's also, of course, for those who don't even know the magic telescope. The commercial says that the mascara extends the eyelashes by 60%, and the model that advertises is a famous actress. One British woman suspected that an actress was wearing artificial eyelashes and complained to the Consumer Protection Association. An investigation has been launched and the company has admitted that the actress really has artificial eyelashes. It is also stressed that the ad should say that after applying the eyelash mask it will look 60% bigger. It's an example of misleading advertising. Or an example of an American advertising for pine cream that works within a minute, which is an absolutely exaggerated form of misleading advertising, and after the manufacturer announced that they never said that an old woman could look like a young girl. The tobacco industry will have to gradually reduce cigarette placement with the label light from May of this year, which is also the result of compliance with new tobacco standards that are spreading to the European Union countries. The reason for the ban on the sale of these cigarettes was the research of scientists who proved that they were no less harmful than regular cigarettes, although they have a name of light on the packaging, which means that the product has certain properties that are not real. When we talk about the draft law on illicit advertising, we would like to point out that the Club of Representatives of the HSS will support this proposal by expecting the applicants to adopt the observations and amendments of the working bodies that have been submitted. In fact, this law is extremely important and necessary, especially because we are truly bombed daily by various ads that really offer us something that does not correspond to the truth and we can say that it is a deception. And this law is also important because advertising certainly has a far-reaching impact on the economic well-being of consumers and traders and affects the smooth functioning of the market. Concealing and illicit comparative advertising can lead to distortions of competition. Therefore, we believe in the HSS Club that it is important to establish minimum and objective criteria that determine whether advertising is misleading or not and that it is important to establish criteria that will lead to a more equal match. Of course, we see the aim of this law in preventing the use of misleading and illicit comparative advertising between traders. Given that many similar products have been offered on the market today, this way of information, if we talk about comparative advertising, enables the consumer to make the purchase decision easier. Because comparative advertising, when comparing certain product characteristics that can be verified and not of course misleading, can be a very legitimate tool for informing consumers. It is good that this law also prescribes assumptions of comparative advertising allowed to determine which practice regarding illicit comparative advertising can distort competition, which can be harmful to competition and then negatively affect consumer choice. We at the HSS Club consider this law welcome, especially because we really feel we need to take greater efforts and measures to ensure the well-being of consumers, but also to help those who play a fair game on the market to advertise their product in the right way and to make such a product recognized by the final customers. The HSS representative club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30396	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30397	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. As the law explains, Croatia needs this law especially because of those... Directives which could not be adopted in the Consumer Rights Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But now either I have misread the law or misunderstood this debate, in my view this law applies to the protection of consumer rights very little because it is the essence of its provisions for protection from traders. Less consumers and more traders and regulate the area of unfair competition through particularly misleading or illicit advertising. This is also referred to in Article 9 which regulates active and passive legitimacy or legislation for the protection of rights under this law. Those who thought that this law was a major deterrent to consumers, I will read the provision of this Article 9 which reads: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia will, on a proposal from the Minister responsible for the Economy, determine by means of a regulation the bodies or persons who have a legitimate interest in collective protection of traders in misleading or unlawful comparative advertising." In the light of this provision, the potential circle of active or passive legitimate persons is very large. Therefore, this provision of Article 9 indicates that the Government will regulate the area by means of a special regulation to the Minister's proposal. So, who's going to have an active and who's going to be passively ID'd, that's just what the government is going to determine. However, I have a question as to why the Government and not, say, the Competition Protection Agency? It's about protecting the competition. We have an agency, and I don't see the need for the government to specifically intervene with sublegal regulations because I think it's a law that mostly regulates protection from competition in its provisions. In this country, we've established an awful lot of offices and agencies. We recently discussed in one agency with more than 20 employees, with 27 million kuna budgets that she had during the year 114 cases if I'm not mistaken, which few citizens know exists, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. We have an Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, which, if I'm well-advised, has not found another Kuna laundered in Croatia. In order to give them a cause for their survival, I will send an official application next week that my wife did not know about the shirt in which there were 10 kunas and I will send those 10 kunas as laundered money, because in some way they must justify their existence and the wages they receive and these 10 kunas will probably be the only example of preventing or proving money laundering in Croatia. Given all the arguments made in the debate on the need for this law, and when it comes to consumers, I ask all of us a common question and why does Croatia not have a consumer rights agency? Is it really enough that only a few consumer protection associations in Croatia work with uncertain funding sources, and even for some of me, a few disputed sources of funds, or the time has matured in terms of the amount of problem we are witnessing, to eliminate these two, three agencies that are our own purpose, and to help consumers in a way that there is an agency that will really protect consumer rights. Because if we have a Competition Protection Agency where we protect market traders who are far less, who are far more educated, more educated with far more capital and know how to organize and protect their interests. Why don't we have a Consumer Rights Agency? All those who have said so far have been instructed by a series of examples of consumers being deceived, deceived, interrupted, and done so from day to day, not only in mitigation, but in the conclusion of a sales contract. And every purchase or every sale is practically a contract, not in writing. And for this reason, I also believe that our strategy and thinking and government, but we should also go towards the direction that after we have protected traders, there is also a special regulation and agency, and citizens now called consumers deserve at least as much attention as traders to find spaces and opportunities if not in this year then, and that the Government proposes that the Consumer Rights Agency be set up, and then we will be able to discuss more seriously whether consumers whose rights on the market have been violated on a daily basis. Tell me today the consumer whose right is injured by whom he can address, where to seek advice, how to get the trader to replace the wrong product he bought. Because you know well that no one replaces products but to send them to repairs under the pretext that they're guaranteed. Just one example of expensive technical devices that we do not go beyond that, and it seems to me that in most European Union Member States, consumer protection areas, other than the laws, pay far more attention and that there are state services that care about it. I know there is a Ministry of Economy, there used to be a tip I don't know what it's called now by 30 people who are an advisory minister when laws are written, regulations, but in operations they don't. I saw recently that representatives of the Consumers Association announced a boycott of participation due to their participation in the body dissatisfied with the treatment of writing laws and the very relationship of the ministry. This is an additional reason for my concern and I will keep repeating this proposal until the responsible realize that too much money has been stolen from consumers with the ideal Consumer Rights Act, and without any concrete mechanisms to protect them. And so long as I don't do it, I'm going to repeat my request for the establishment of the Consumer Protection Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30398	Thank you. Replica, representative of Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30399	Comrade Lesar, you said among other things that one of the big problems is how to get the trader to replace the bad product he sold, so I would now ask you in the light of what you said if this problem will be seen already in the next local elections when some of their products are offered, and it is already visible from the plane that their product is not good or that I can't keep what they promised to the consumers themselves who listen to these ads. How to sanction those who in this sense sell and offer what has no content that they have announced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30400	The answer to the replica creative, Mr. Representative Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30401	A colleague of Gorana, this type of product on the market, no agency in any country, nor in Croatia can protect anyone. But I am sure that the existence of the State Consumer Rights Agency would already react to the advertising itself either on electronic or printed media from which it is clearly evident that the product is advertised or presented with properties that are not owned at a price that is not real. In particular, she says that everything is for zero kunas, especially in the part where it's done, so commits the trader to replace the wrong products. And the declarations I'm not talking about. I, in my time, asked the secretary of state at the time to read me the declaration using glasses and a raiser with the two products I brought in. And of course it didn't work out. Nothing's changed. Import products on the Croatian market are written in letters and figures, perhaps through a microscope reading yes, but not normally. Comrade Beus, these products you spoke of also have a declaration written in invisible letters. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30402	And isn't the 2003 and 2007 parliamentary elections sanctioned by advertising, false advertising?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30403	There was a lot of choice, Vice President in the meantime, and what a sanction is a matter of personal perception and impression.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30404	I kind of remember that in these two parliamentary elections, false advertising was sanctioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30405	Mr. President, only if you're referring to a guarantee card.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30406	No, no, no. Something else. I mean the results of the election of these parliamentary ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30407	And I'm saying they're not sanctioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30408	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30409	That form of advertising on the guaranteed card wasn't sanctioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30410	He wasn't, he was sanctioned with success. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his word. Madam Representative Jeljana Kalash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30411	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. It seems to me that from all the debates so far, it is a very clear conclusion that the market must serve the consumer, but that traders must be protected from unfair competition. And it is certain that, in addition to this, this law that we have on our benches must be recognised that the competent authorities of the institution as well as NGOs are working hard on this issue. However, in my debate, I want to talk about the most vulnerable group under the cover of advertising industry, and these are children. The International Consumer Protection Conference in Croatia, dedicated to primary safety of products intended for children, was held at the beginning of this month in Zagreb in the framework of a tweening project on consumer protection carried out by the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Croatia, together with the competent ministry in the Federal Republic of Germany. The conclusion of the international conference is that children are the most vulnerable category of consumers and that parent information is precisely the most important item for a safe purchase, which is the best regulator of the overall market. Of course, we could also talk about consumer literacy here. I will also, in line with these replicas that have now been just for my debate, say that consumer protection represents not only economic or health, but the overall social interest and precisely because of each citizen's individual concern. And although what may have been in the case of previous discussions and replicas may be put in place, is this a law in the area of the protection of traders or is this a law in the domain of consumer protection? My personal view is that it is actually a comprehensive process of control that does not necessarily end with the customer of the final product, but from it can begin. And perhaps the solution has just been offered through a stricter definition of illegal advertising on the one hand and through a more proactive State Inspectorate policy, through a higher degree of transparency and opportunities for consumers to directly and quickly make their observations and exercise their rights on the other. According to information from the competent ministry, it is a matter of preparing a system that allows for the exchange of information on products of poor quality among the European Union countries that will introduce Croatia immediately after the entry into the Union and I would like to say that more than 1700 measures against bad products on the market last year have been taken in the system, of which 31% of the objections were to the various products intended for children. I think that figure speaks clearly enough about this most sensitive category, so it's definitely children. And now, by actually preparing for the debate on this law, I also came across some claims from five-year-olds who were listed in the media as an example of illicit or comparative advertising when five-year-olds asked what they wanted if the goldfish could grant him only one wish, he answered the tampax tampons because then he could swim, ride on horseback and do whatever I wanted. I think this is an example that perfectly illustrates the impact of advertising and advertising can have on children their desires, even when this advertisement, and even the product that is advertised is not meant for children at all. Now the question is, what is the effect of advertising, or advertising, when it is aimed at children, when it is intended for them, and as a product that is approaching them right now? According to the GFK survey in Croatia, 82% of children aged 11 to 13 influence parents when buying candy, snacks, chocolates. 70% of them wonder when to buy yogurt, pudding and spreads, and 61% when to buy non-alcoholic drinks. There may also be an impact on alcoholic beverages. The cell phone has 73%, and the TV is looking at 90% every day. My conclusion from all of this is that children without their own income, no matter how old they are, have a significant amount of money. And now the next conclusion stems from this claim is that children certainly play an important market role so they are certainly also an interesting marketing target. Companies move borders and break prejudices such as a ban on food, so there we have a case of the success of Kinder's eggs or Krashe's animal empire, and the marketing machinery has so great a force directed at children who, until their 9th year of life or even later, have not developed the ability to critically think about their choices in decisions, but are only based on wishes. In fact, children under the age of 3, 4 don't even know what's on some show or what's on it. And little children actually believe that there's one world, one that fits their experience, so I can't imagine what they want, think and intend for others. And now something about consumer literacy. Overwatching TV commercials certainly have the most extensive consequences, especially when they are TV ads seen without parental supervision that actually encourage children to create desires for a greater number of things, i.e.. create consumer mentality and orientation to materialistic values. It could be said that the most devastating effect of advertising on the child’s image is self - respect and self - respect. Namely, the basic technique of advertising is persuasion that certain products are necessary in order for the child to be happy, healthy, cheerful, beautiful, popular, favorite, just as State Secretary Mazal said that in fact similar messages are offered to women. Children are disappointed, I believe often women when these things are bought or not bought, and rarely and when buying things do not satisfy their expectations. It can be concluded that besides legislation, a big decision, the role of actually defending children from advertising must be played by parents and educational institutions. Maybe they should be developing the so-called. consumer literacy, but the most important thing may be to develop child self-respect because self-reliance and sure children will certainly be better able to resist commercials that try to make them unhappy. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30412	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30413	Just one thing. You colleagues were wondering about the protection of who this law applies? I think my colleague Lesar asked something like that. The first sentence of the law is governed by this law by the protection of merchants. It indirectly regulates consumer protection, but the law regulates the protection of traders.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30414	Replication response, Madam Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30415	Thank you. Here we are in all the debates so far, and so in this way me and my colleague Lugarić are kind of very often replicating ourselves on the subject of children. I agree with you, I read the law. Of course, this would not be possible without reading the law and preparing for discussion. But I'll tell you again, since I've read about the doubt about whether this is a law in the domain of the protection of traders or of the law in the area of consumer protection. I have stated, note, my personal position as to the overall process of control that does not necessarily end with the buyer of the final product, but from it can begin. Well, it doesn't seem to you that none of us here know what the Consumer Rights Act is without just reading the law it has on its benches today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30416	Thank you. Madam Representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30417	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, I would support the adoption of this law, not only is it a law that is in line with European Union directives, but also because it really affects the smooth functioning of the market by protecting, as you yourself have stated, relations between two traders with the aim of preventing the use of misleading and illicit comparative advertising between traders. When the whole law is read, it is seen that it applies directly to consumers, although in that part we can say that we also have the Media and Consumers Act and then we would see how funds are used in today’s times of crisis. We heard that 730 million euros per year goes to advertising. So we have no idea that the crisis, and also many financial houses in the Republic of Croatia spend up to 53m euros in money annually. So, on the other hand, there is something positive that we can actually read from this law, which is a comparative advertising that compares certain product characteristics, which can also be checked, and when it is not misleading, it can indeed be a legitimate tool for informing consumers. The consumer will benefit as a large number of similar products are offered on the market and, after the information is made, the right information makes a decision on the purchase. Comparative advertising for the purpose of promotion of products or services directly or indirectly points to a competitor on the market, i.e. direct or indirect references to a competing product or service. When we have misleading advertising products, it can lead to error, indeed, and the person to whom advertising is directed, and it is probably the same that advertising will affect the economic behaviour of those to whom it is addressed, or bad business decisions. This law also refers to misleading advertising as a result of inaccuracies, incompleteness or inaccessibility of the information contained in injury to the player of the game. Of course we're in that game. And we're often deceived, especially by women, I'd say when the product says it's silk, and it's really not silk, it's polyester. Well, he also says it's from viscose, and it's not from polyester. Or it's a domestic product. It's industrial production. Natural bread is advertised, and then you think that there are natural grains in there, and when you look well and inform yourself then that color does not go from cereals, but from artificial color, which is also said to be unhealthy. There was talk here about light drinks, and today we know very well that light drinks are much more harmful than those with sugar. Often the product is placed in a large packaging that suggests that the product has more than it does, when we open the packaging. And I witnessed it myself, because I thought there was a lot more candy, and when I opened it, there was 10 candy in such a big box. And it's a good thing I opened it myself, I didn't give it to anyone. The example that the furniture that is purchased will not only be brought, but the assembly will eventually turn out that the installation is not planned at all. Many of us are participants to say on television that one drink will grow our wings. Well, on the other hand, they tell us and advertise it's healthy to eat red meat, and besides, we're still short on advertising about teflon pans that we know today that if they're at high temperatures, they release harmful substances. We're also witnessing free credit advertising. So an example of a painting roller that looks big to you on television, you think you'll be painting the room very quickly with it, and when you go, it's 5.6 centimeters, and it's afraid of it, which you don't see on television, of course. This law also provides for a special mechanism to combat the occurrence of illicit advertising practices, certain bodies and persons having a legitimate interest in collective protection of traders, to enable, on their behalf, and in the interest of all other traders, to sue for the termination of illicit advertising practices, and to protect the entire population of traders on the market, and to protect the public in general against unauthorised advertising. In the case of judicial proceedings initiated under this law, it is therefore required to suspend, or prohibit, disputed advertising. But what I'd like to warn you about is that I'm personally afraid, because it doesn't decide whether the trader is guilty or not for illicit acts, or whether he decides to punish the trader for illegal advertising, and in practice we often know how it ends. And indeed the media and television in some way, and this misleading advertising creates our life, creates the quality of life at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30418	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30419	Dear Mr. Vice President, honored Madam Secretary of State with an associate, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The other day, I had an opportunity to read a small ad in very, very fine letters, in which the verdict was to bring the text of that verdict completely into the paper, and it was that one firm sued the other precisely for advertising that was not correct. So, one company claimed to be the best provider of certain services, and another company killed it in the Trade Court. It somehow gave me the hope that here in the advertising segment there are certain ethics and that trade courts are doing their job well, and surely this law will contribute to that too, by the more the demand for certain European guidelines. Unfortunately, however, this law refers to illicit advertising between traders, so economic operators, and very little or no consumers themselves. We witness indeed unethical and incorrect advertising in many media, both in electronic and in print, and for example ads appear for various miraculous drinks, for weight loss, baldness, etc. So the question is, can one company, by law, sue another company because the first company, let's say, has announced that the person whose hair is falling out will be compensated for that loss in seven days, and these others think they have an even more miraculous potion or embalm, so baldness will disappear in five days. What about the advertising of all kinds of psychics and psychics who tell about fates from cards, so even on certain commercial televisions, we're witnessing that some psychic takes a surplus and it's enough just to phone him to tell you your destiny. So it's obviously not the subject of this law, but it's the subject of market inspection, including the criminal police. What about those big lenses, you can't park a car without someone under the wipers putting some flyer where they're offering unambiguous loans, you just have to call someone Peru or Eve or Anna on your cell phone and leave your data. This is at this point a very serious economic situation in the Republic of Croatia which should definitely be dealt with by the criminal police, because it is obvious that such movements cannot be given in an honest and legal manner. However, all of this falls within the consumer cheating segment, cheating on desperate citizens who can't even be said to be gullible because they are grasping the last straws of salvation to patch up their home budget. Interestingly, such ads are even on commercial television. So what does the state inspectorate, inspection, police, etc. This is also likely to be the way in which a lot of potential money goes out of the state budget, because it is cash transactions that never see any tax or other taxes to be paid. For us consumers are a very unprotected category, unfortunately, and there is still much to be done not only on legal legislation but also on the education of consumers themselves, to know what their rights are, that consumers should be aware that they must take account of each purchase, because they also protect themselves and also help the state, that traders, i.e. service providers, are more aware and more concrete about their business, that each transaction is registered and that they pay for what must be paid, i.e. VAT or other relevant taxes. Since we are pursuing the European Union and we will certainly become full members for a certain period of time, unfortunately not as fast as the Government hopes, but through it is clearly now, through a relatively long period of time, but it is enough time to adapt our internal arrangements in a way that protects both economic operators and consumers from the real flood of bad goods and services that we are exposed to. And I'm going to mention my favorite theme again. Quality infrastructure, which in the segment or process of a globalised market, makes the only dam, the only effective dam of bad products, is therefore normisation, measurement and accreditation that train our experts, our laboratories, our experts to assess the compliance of requirements that set international and guidelines and guidelines and guidelines that are implemented in the Croatian economy to the safety of products, to the safety of people and the environment. And it is fortunate that it is one of the few segments that really works in this country, so here again I repeat the cocoa traditionally in the European Commission's assessment of the progress of the Republic of Croatia in the process of approaching the European Union, these segments get the highest marks. However, I point out once again that despite the obligations of the Republic of Croatia, a national measuring institute has not yet been established providing infrastructure to laboratories that do all these jobs that must work in terms of consumer protection in order to make the system work. When the government will do so is the first puzzle, because it has already committed itself by its regulation to do so around 6 months last year, but given that time travel is not possible, a rhetorical question arises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30420	Thank you very much. Professor, what about those time machine when you're going?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30421	Physics allows it, but the reality unfortunately doesn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30422	Imagination allows. In 18.26 timed out to report a ten-minute hearing. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30423	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. A few dilemmas, in fact, I have a personal around this law and I'd like to say just a few sentences about it. So, personally, I do not dispute that the provisions which are materially tangible and define this law need to be introduced into legislation and put in place these rules and I have no problems personally. By preparing for this debate, I also looked at the Consumer Protection Act and, for example, in the Consumer Protection Act, Article 110 of the Safeguarding Actions was defined, Article 111 of the Safeguarding Discounts. There's even a whole head that refers to comparative advertising, which is probably equal to this parallel advertising that's actually being talked about in this law. And my actual question, if it's exactly the same as that in the Consumer Protection Act, then we didn't need this law. If this is different, then the provisions on comparative advertising of the Consumer Protection Act and the provisions on comparative advertising under this law cannot, at the same time, be valid for both. Where Article 6 of this Act is compared to Article 117, The consumer protection law that speaks of the assumptions of comparative advertising, they are not exactly the same. The same thing is true when there's a dispute. Under this law, a local trade court is in charge. According to the Consumer Protection Act, the procedure can be initiated, i.e. the party, so to speak, in the process the whole story leads through the State Inspectorate. Now, if at the same time we are subject to the Consumer Protection Act in this part of the ban on comparative or comparative advertising, because in one law it's called one, in the other, then I'm afraid we're going to get into a rather awkward situation. So, I repeat, I do not doubt the content itself, but it seems to me now more and more, reading the Consumer Protection Act, that this content of this law may have been better fully implemented in the Consumer Protection Act. Because I repeat, there are complete heads in the Consumer Protection Act that refer to misleading business practice, comparative advertising, seductive discounts and hundreds of other miracles that are not my particular profession, but the elemental logic and description is that it's simply the same thing. So, I'm even estimating somewhere if you're going to stay under this law that you're going to have to change in that part of the Consumer Protection Act, and then, by the way, I'm appealing when you're going to prepare a Consumer Protection Act to do something with small letters. When I say little letters, what do I mean? So we have ads in various forms that at the first ball and what's sound, which is visible at first sight tell the truth. Advertiser that fences itself not to fall in some way under the Insurance Advertising Act, then put the font of five graphic dots that says but you know it's not like that, it was visible in five of the six copies that we've been looking at and actually what we've said above as an essential quality of our product is not at all worth it. In the Consumer Protection Act, you do not actually have any consumer protection to do so. Technically, the advertiser shut down on the legal side, they weren't really covert or falsely advertised because they wrote it all, but they wrote it so that you healthy young person couldn't even read it, or in any way notice it. Therefore, here I would only really be interested in the relationship between this law and the Consumer Protection Act in part of the provisions relating to comparative advertising, i.e. to ask you in some way to read about it, so to speak, in small letters or in the case of television screens, something that passes over the screen so quickly that everything and that you will not be able to read what the advertiser intended to say. And in that sense I will support this law, but I would prefer it when we discuss these things, when we talk about this law that if we need to do here to amend the Consumer Protection Act we have received both laws in the package, and not that we in some way ourselves are hunting in something that we haven't actually prepared enough as content of voting, although there is no reason for that because it seems to me that there is an absolute agreement here in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30424	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30425	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll put in a few sentences. I was inspired by my colleagues and colleagues in their discussions. I usually do a lot of work, and I'm very interested in marketing in the pharmaceutical industry. I've had a rare opportunity to see in which unequal positions drug manufacturers can find because it's forbidden by law, and at the same time in a whole series of printed media, electronic media can meet ads that refer to some miraculous means that concern not only some harmless diseases, but also dangerous diseases, malignant diseases so that I look forward to this law, but if it really is, it's true, because so far it's worth a law that didn't allow any ads that are miraculous means. Here I have the research carried out in Croatia where the question that the factor affects the customer most is the choice of preparations for weight loss. In the first place was advertising in the media, and at the same time I have two ads that came out in the media, which says "a miraculous hollywood weight loss treatment removes fat tissue from the hour to hour, centimeter by centimeter." Or another "loser light, fast and natural, and my stomach becomes flat again, 7 kilos gone in seven days." Therefore, these are ads that can be found daily in our printed media and I appeal that the inspection works and that indeed penalties not only are being issued in this way but also the printed or electronic media that allows it. Well, of course it should be carried out in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, but I wonder if the Minister of Health has violated the Law on Allowed Advertising when I find it illegal to advertise his health reform in the media. Because the effects of this reform on the health of Croatian citizens are not good. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30426	Thank you very much. I tried this diet and got fat. (Laughter) A diet for weight loss. Same with those smoking stickers. It's not the stickers, it's those pills. ... The Band-Aids helped. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But before that, I tried the pills, so I even made more of a wish to smoke. ... They lie to the village, they lie to the people. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Final review, State Secretary Tamara Obradović Mazal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30427	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. First of all, thank you for understanding this law, for one broad support for this law. I think, of course, through implementation and through some concrete indicators when traders start suing each other, we will see how good and effective he is in practice and how much traders will want to rely on this mechanism to actually prevent such a unfair competition. Nota ben, I don't think you're going to hear this, but it can be read, we've predicted the agency. However, the internal rules of the Competition Protection Agency did not allow for the implementation of this law at this time. That's what we've actually been thinking about and we've had an institutional obstacle as to the implementation and conduct of the procedure that comes from this law. Comparative advertising, i.e. the comparative advertising we have in the Consumer Protection Act, will be removed from the Consumer Protection Act in this law. Therefore, that part of the matter that regulates it in the current version of the Consumer Protection Act will be removed, i.e. removed from the new bill. The Fund, unfortunately the answer is no. Small letters. Unfortunately, court practice, I think it's a commission against England and the Commission against Spain because I'm not sure, and I really wouldn't want to say something wrong when I don't know a fund is considered to limit the flow of goods, because the goods that have a certain product notice must then be printed specifically in that segment for one of the national markets. If this were accepted at European Union level then font 12 would go to Poland, font 6 to Hungary, and the font I don't know 4 and a half, so half-invisible letters may go to Greece and font size must not be legally determined by national law because it disturbs Chapter I. Freedom of movement of goods. Therefore, anything requiring additional administrative power, i.e. additional administrative efforts by importers and those placing the product on the market, the Commission considers that the measure with the same effect that actually makes it impossible for that goods to come to one of the national markets, the internal market of the European Union. This was supposed to be a package with the Consumer Protection Act. We are still in negotiations and consultations with the European Commission on one part of the Consumer Protection Act. The intensity was that indeed and logically, the General Product Safety Act and this Act and the Consumer Protection Act go together. We're fighting for something. Whether we have succeeded or not you will see when we send the proposal for a consumer protection law into the parliamentary procedure. And just one more note. This law de facto protects the trader, but I wouldn't tell me. I'd say this law allows a trader, because we don't protect him. We're protecting him by the very fact that we've prescribed a standard. I think this law allows a trader to get attacked by another trader when he has a real loss assessment. So, I don't know if it can be interpreted as protecting some special trader. I think we're just allowing him to fight all legal means against his competitor. And finally, we also mentioned weight loss preparations and anti-cellulite creams and anti-cellulite drugs. I doubt we'll ever look like this 100 years from now. I'd like to experience it myself. I'm sorry, but it's nice. [[You are, just so I can see.]] For men, I'd have the next review. [[And that's the minister.]] For the women's part of this assembly, I have each other, and that's what we're not gonna look like in 70 years, so we've got cellulite, so let's be proud of it, and let's not spend money based on these ads on expensive products. And to me personally, if I may take that opportunity, the distinguished Parliamentarian Maras is simply very likable just as he is. Here, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30428	Tamara, do you know anyone who listens to you?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30429	If I may, Mr. Vice President, he's in Tirana, I mean on a plane right now, and I'm sure because there are no electronic devices. The Legislative Committee has proposed some amendments to the nomotechnical and expressive character, and if you would permit me to take this opportunity in a way that would allow me to accept amendments to the Committee on Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30430	Thank you very much. I expected there to be a correction to the incorrect allegations by MP Maras, but there was nothing left. Or a breach of the Rules of Procedure. But nothing. When it's true, there's no correct assumption. I'm closing the debate. We interrupt the session. We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Publicity against Infectious Diseases, and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Officials, Payments of Judges, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-25-0.u30431	The final draft law on the illegal advertising of the amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted these amendments, which are not voted on because they become an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Rule 169 of the Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? ... Until the system's up a little bit. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] We're not waiting for him to get up, let's go manually. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Who is the law on illegal advertising for this proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Unanimity with 112 votes for the adopted Law on Unauthorized Advertising, together with the amendments adopted.
