ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34361	To what point of the agenda could we do tonight?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34362	Who can predict, who can be so inventive that they can predict how much will occur per item of the agenda, how much will be the replica, how much will be the correction of incorrect allegations, and it is very difficult. But we certainly think as many of these agenda points as possible today so that this agenda could be consummated at all. There are 55 points here and we're going to expand it. So I can't say exactly. We are passing as announced on - Report on the work of the Research Commission for the Determination of Facts on the Purchase of 39 Military Trucks by the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia in December 2004 The Commission for the Determination of Facts on the Purchase of 39 Military Trucks by the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia in December 2004 submitted a report on the basis of Article 12 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on investigative committees. You received the proposal by mail. The hearing was conducted by the Defence Committee. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the report? Yeah. Nenad Stazic, chairman of the commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34363	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. This report will introduce myself as the chairman of the commission and vice-president of the commission, each for 15 minutes. So I'm asking you to measure the time then. Dear colleagues, you have received three materials with this report. Only the report, then the witness and the color tables that were divided into benches last week, which compare the offers given in this competition. These tables are otherwise found in the report itself at the end. However, they were printed there in black white technology, so they show nothing. That's why I asked the secretariat, and the secretariat pleased to print them in color. And they are available to you in materials. They are very useful, because they can be seen very plastically as offerings of individual bidders, how much they amounted to and how much was paid at the end, and how much could be paid for the use of offers of individual bidders. The report on the work of the Research Commission, this is this smaller material, could also be divided into two parts. In the section signed by most members of the commission, the members of the parliamentary majority and the opinion given on the basis of these conclusions by members of the parliamentary minority commission. Let's first consider the first part. In the first part you have an introduction, so you have a decision to set up a commission and then a list of documents the commission received at the request of the competent authorities and which it analysed in its work. The witness statements here are just listed, and you have a detailed report with their testimony in this other material. But let's cut to the chase. Therefore, after these documents, the conclusions under point 6 of that part of the commission coming from the parliamentary majority line shall be converted. I note that these conclusions were made on the sequel I mean our 7th session on Monday 11 May 2009. The Honorable President of the 7th session, I concluded Friday before that Monday. But members of the parliamentary majority committee held a continuation of the already closed session and reached these conclusions. It would be as if you who are in charge of this House had concluded one of our sessions, and the MPs stayed in the assembly and continued to discuss the laws and to adopt those laws. It is clear that such adopted laws could not enter into legal force. That's exactly what happened in this commission's work. The session was concluded, it is visible from the phonogram of the session, and yet a continuation of the already concluded session was held and only by members of the parliamentary majority and at such a phantom session were adopted these conclusions. Of all these conclusions, I believe that they will be presented in more detail by the Vice-President of the Commission in their 15 minutes, so I will only single out the last, conclusion number 11. It says Mr. Berislav Roncevic as defence minister has contracted to obtain these trucks with which he has not damaged the state budget, but has obtained quality military performance vehicles to resolve the partnership goals. It is only part of his merits in the timely completion of NATO's adaptation to the standards and entry of the Republic of Croatia into this organisation. I, when I saw these conclusions, tried to call another session of the commission, failed because it was not answered by members of the parliamentary majority. I tried calling her because I wanted to upgrade this conclusion. And suggest to the commission that if this is true what it says here, and apparently that members of the commission and parliamentary majority think it is true, we should suggest to the President of the Republic that Mr Berislav Rončević is decorated. Because the state has to thank and repay those who put her in charge. So if it's true that Berislav Roncevic, that it's only one part of his merit, then he deserves a medal for that part. I have no doubt that the President of the Republic would accept this commission's position and I only don't know which one would assign to Mr Roncevic. Secondly, I wanted to suggest that we use the fact that Mr. Berislav Roncevic made such a good purchase in the opinion of the majority in the commission. Namely, Croatia is a NATO member and has all the rights and rights of all other NATO members in the alliance, so if it is true and it is obvious that part of the commission believes that it is true that Mr. Berislav Roncevic has done a great job, then it is a pity that his talent is failing in this yet slightly poor, cramped and provincial opportunities, so he should propose that Mr. Roncevic as assistant secretary-general of the NATO Alliance be his assistant to be his assistant for procurement. Well, since he's done such a wonderful job here in Croatia, it's a shame that he doesn't do the same work for all NATO countries. And the third thing I was going to suggest is that this part of the parliamentary majority committee came to the conclusion that these trucks were purchased precisely because their only producer had NATO certificate. Now, that's one discovery very significant, perhaps most significant in the work of this committee. I'd dare compare him to the discovery of antibiotics in medicine. Because if it's true and it's obvious that part of the parliamentary majority commission thinks it's true that other producers, means neither Mercedes nor "MAN" nor "Renault" have a NATO certificate for the production of military vehicles and NATO countries still use their military vehicles, then we, as a responsible country, must warn them. We must warn NATO members that vehicles are used by manufacturers who, according to members of the parliamentary majority commission, do not have NATO certificates and that such jobs and the use of such vehicles are discontinued. So, we recommend that they only use the Iveco vehicles in the future and that if they get them through Eurocamion, because that's the only thing that's right. That's what the majority in this commission thinks. These conclusions were not possible because the session was not held, as it was not responded by members of the parliamentary majority. Now something about the second part of the report, so a separate opinion. This is where one chronology of events is observed. It is established that certain funds for the purchase of military equipment have been provided for in the budget, that an invitation to tender has been opened by the Ministry of Defence, the procurement service has opened an invitation to tender. So she went to the very producers she knew were making military equipment the kind of army she needed. The companies reported, the commission met, and it did not consider the price level at all, but first all of these offers gave to the technical section of the commission which had to be examined whether all the vehicles offered corresponded to the request of the MORH or the request of the main headquarters. That technical part of the commission met and established. It concluded all offered vehicles by all manufacturers meet the technical requirements. When it was established, it only changed to a price review. In the price study, one table was made, and it was seen that even if it was going to be bought from the most favourable bidder, there was approximately 3 million kuna missing. The whole invitation to tender has started with Articles 6(5) and 7. Public procurement law which says that the Public Procurement Act does not apply if military equipment is supplied. Therefore, the procurement process could be continued by moving to guessing with the two most favourable bidders and choosing the most favourable. This was also advised by the first procurement committee. That's exactly what they advised. However, such a follow-up did not take place, but the commission was disbanded by the decision of Assistant Minister Bačić, and Minister Roncevic then drawn up another one that made the purchase of a direct contract with the Eurocamion, because in the very decision to establish the second commission headed by the same Bacic, it was only to be negotiated with the Eurocamion. So Minister Roncevic made a decision in advance on who to buy from, and that decision says because he is the most favourable bidder. Nowhere is explained why Minister Roncevic considers "Eurocamion" the most favourable bidder, nor can it be said because Eurocampion was simply not the most favourable bidder. The fact that he did not explain his decision to you was also the State Audit in that report which you as representatives of citizens in the Republic of Croatia in this House because the State Audit didn't even send him to you, because that report was only found out from the newspapers and this Investigation Commission when it asked the State Audit to find out the State Audit and to the Investigative Commission did not send such a report, but only the one shorted in which nothing was said and in which statements that Minister Roncevic explained to nothing why he asked for a contract to be concluded with the company "Eurocamion". That's what you could get as representatives on the bench. A contract was made, trucks were bought. They were to be bought 76, and for these 76, 3 million kunas were missing, and in the end, only 39 were purchased for the same amount. The military inspectorate carried out military inspections, examined all documents and carried out inspection of this purchase and concluded that the state budget was damaged by more than 14 million kuna. The Commission analysed the document and established that the document was credible and accurate. General Milicevic was also invited to testify, but still part of the parliamentary majority commission closed the testimony to the public although General Milicevic had but a complete copy of the same permit as General Lucic to testify. General Lucic was allowed to testify publicly but General Milicevic's testimony was closed to the public. Part of the commission wanted to face Milicevic's statement and Roncevic's statement, which he also testified because they do not match in significant terms. In fact, General Milicevic claimed that Minister Roncevic had then ordered him to change part of the commission and the minister said such a meeting was never there. We asked for their face-to-face with the commission, but of course, the majority of the commission and that confrontation refused. What can we conclude as members of the parliamentary minority committee? We can only conclude that in the work of this Research Commission, it was not intended to be true, that the truth was constantly covered up and closed by witnessing and holding a session beyond the Rules of Procedure of the Commission and finally by adopting these conclusions. The only thing we can conclude is that the public should be aware of this because here the public can be the only arbitration officer in conditions where both the state bodies and the parliamentary majority try to conceal the truth about the purchase of these military trucks. The public will continue to monitor this session today and the public may be familiar with this report and the public will draw their conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34364	Thank you. Because according to the Rules of Procedure, I have to give explanations, etc., only briefly. On co-operation and content, the form of co-operation with NATO is not the relevant Commission of Investigation. But you can, as a representative of the appropriate initiative, take forms of co-operation with NATO. And also for selecting a possible assistant secretary-general, it must also be in content. Otherwise, the proposal goes to the President of the Republic of Croatia according to a certain procedure, and so there is that possibility. But not as an investigative committee, but you know how it works, by what rules, right?- I'm sorry. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34365	Thank you very much. Well, I'd have a lot of corrections, but time is short. According to counterpart Stazic, the minority continued the interrupted session. Not a minority has continued but most of them have, I guess, been confused. The sitting was not interrupted because he refused, therefore, it is an incorrect assumption, because he refused to include our proposal, so the majority proposal in the agenda. He refused what he owed according to the Rules of Procedure. That's why he left the session. And because he didn't put our agenda proposal, period, we continued that session, which is legitimate. And secondly, it's incorrect that the tables show that trucks that are more expensive are purchased, a memo from the headquarters that we're going to quote today, I hope 20 times since 25 November only gives consent to two manufacturers that have all technical characteristics and... Mercedes, the memo got all the MPs in the attachment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the selection and constraint from 6 suppliers to 2 took place, of which the two ministers then chose a cheaper one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34366	Now Mr Emil Tomljanovic, vice president of the Commission of Investigation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34367	Thank you very much, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, here is the introduction, and I think it is most important to stress that the investigation committee has reached its next conclusion following the analysis of all relevant documents, I repeat, all relevant documents and witness hearings. The Commission concluded that there were no illegal actions, procedures and events in the procurement in question, nor was the State budget damaged. In the process of a direct contract, the defence minister respected the choice of suppliers according to the criteria of the Chief Staff of the Armed Forces and adapted the choice and number of vehicles to the requirements, the partnership objectives which dictated the period of final preparations for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into full NATO membership. All supplied vehicles were required and according to the main headquarters’s statement in full use and function. This conclusion was reached by the Commission of Investigation, therefore, working on the case itself and doing so in the following way. 1. Following the declassification process, the commission reviewed the entire documentation, both procurement procedures and the witnesses were heard by the chief state auditor, Mrs. Šima Krasic, chief police director Vladimir Faber, head of the Chief Staff of Armed Forces Josip Lucic and former defence minister, now parliamentary representative Berislav Roncevic. It is unquestionably established that the procurement was carried out by the basis of two tendering procedures of which the first one was annulled. I repeat, the first one has been cancelled. The first competition was an invitation to tender under the Public Procurement Act and the usual military equipment that was the subject of the procurement. In this contest, a wider circle of military vehicles was sought while the second procedure, due to the need for partner objectives, made a direct contract only for the category of military motor vehicles, therefore, of military performance trucks. The first invitation to tender shall be invalidated and the basis of Article 64(1). The public procurement law and the Decision of the Agency for Material Resources of 15 December 2004 as the lowest price offered was higher than the financial resources in the budget item for the purchase of the vehicle. It is important here to stress that the implementation of the first tender, as well as the decision to cancel it, did not have any objections or state audits, or the authorities of the police, which were later checked in the follow-up procedures. Thus, the tender itself was carried out, or annulled entirely in accordance with the law. Prior to the analysis of the second tender, it is very important to highlight, i.e. to underline the content of the decision of the Agency for Material Resources since 15 December 2004. That decision states that the Development, Equipment and Modernisation Service is required to carry out an audit of the requirements. Therefore, I repeat the revision of the procurement requirements in terms of reducing the quantity or giving up on the purchase of a particular type of vehicle in order to align the value of the purchase with the really provided means. In this connection, the second tender was held, on the principle of direct contracting, again based on the Public Procurement Act. Neither the application of this tender procedure was made nor the State audit nor the police. And the choice of these vehicles was influenced by two facts. First, the course of negotiations to bring the partnership objectives into line with the accession of the Republic of Croatia to NATO. The second, therefore, is a letter from the Chief Staff designated by suppliers who do not meet these new conditions contained in the Partnership Goals. Only a second group of military construction vehicles has been selected and the number of individual vehicles has been changed in accordance with the requirements of the partner objectives. I point out that individual prices for the same vehicles in the first competition have been taken into account in terms of final prices. The choice of bidders to negotiate with has been identified by the Chief Staff of the Armed Forces as the expert body for the assessment of the technical characteristics of the vehicles offered. And not only that, by letter, the Chief Staff of the Armed Forces requested the exclusion of suppliers who did not meet the new technical requirements, which were suppliers who offered the lowest prices along with vehicles of incomplete characteristics. This document is the key document for the choice of suppliers. Therefore, according to the request of the Chief Staff for the second vehicle group, only two suppliers whose vehicles are offered meet the technical characteristics. All other offers are excluded by the above document, as technically insufficient and therefore an inappropriate comparison of the final prices reached with the cheapest prices of suppliers excluded by the main headquarters due to unsatisfactory technical characteristics. Only a comparison of the prices of the purchased vehicles with the individual prices of the same vehicles in the first invitation to tender is possible and logical and acceptable. The final contract concluded with the company Eurokamion because these vehicles were 16% cheaper than the other company’s offer, and the individual price of the vehicle of such a selected supplier in the first invitation contest was reduced by 3% of the advance payment, and at such an agreed price was added VAT. Furthermore, all the charges found in the report of the MORH Chief Inspector-General have been dismissed by the Commission for two basic reasons. First, its supervision compared the prices of the cheapest bids from the first invitation to tender rejected by the document of the Chief Staff of the Armed Forces since 25 November 2004 as technically inappropriate. And secondly, more importantly, that document I assume you all have in front of you, in the report, the chief inspector's office says, quotes: "We haven't had all the documents available, and if they were the conclusion could be different." Therefore, inspection surveillance was carried out without having made an insight into all relevant documents. The inspector admits that not all relevant documents were available to him, so it's surprising to find out about the overpayment of the vehicle, even for 14.8 million kuna. In addition, the MORH Chief Inspector, it should also be stressed, does not have a legal foothold to monitor public procurement in the ministry, because it is an obligation of the State Audit Office, and, among other things, confirmed in the work of the Research Commission, and not only by the basis of legal provisions, but also by hearing witnesses. Also, witness statements and chief state auditors and police directors directly indicate that no illegal activities have been made in the procurement process. These statements are so clear that they need to be quoted literally in this place, and they are also in this part of the report. The first is a statement to ask if there were any irregular actions. The chief state auditor says, "No, we have found irregularities, but that have affected the giving of opinions, but we have not found illegal actions." The second statement is even clearer and even more precise. So, the Chief Director of the Police on the express question whether any form of suspicion of committing a crime was established in this case answers: "No, if we had come to the level of reasonable doubt that any person committed a crime, we would have opted for a form of criminal application rather than a general report to the State's Attorney's office." My colleagues and colleagues, as outlined in this report in this sense and on the basis of, I repeat, an analysis of all relevant data and hearings of witnesses, therefore the most important conclusion is exactly the one that I quoted at the beginning of my presentation. The Commission thus concluded that there were no illegal activities in the procurement in question, no illegal practices and events, and no damage to the State budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34368	Thank you. We have a correction. Mr. Representative Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34369	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, Mr. Tomljanovic said that the chief inspector's behavioural officer, General Milicevic, quoted about in his report: not all the documents were available to us, because if they were, the finding would have been different. That's what we discussed on the Bureau of Investigation. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I say, I didn't say anything that... Can I do it, Mr. President? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you. So it's a matter of interpretation, that's what we said. Based on what the service, i.e. General Milicevic, had documents that formed conclusions ahead of us regarding the chief inspector's reports. But now that it needs to be interpreted so that he couldn't get some documents yet. Because if he could have come up with some documents, and we saw that in the debate on the Investigative Commission then he would have formed, I called it, an even worse conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34370	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the chairman of the Committee on Economy, Mr Dragan Kovacevic, has scheduled a meeting of the Committee at 13.30 today at the Chamber of Janko Draskovic, 202/II. Does the workbody reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34371	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This case and the work of the Investigative Commission have shown that there is a space for possible abuse, as well as manipulation of the regulations governing the work of investigative committees. First of all, it has been shown that members of the Investigative Commission understand their role as completely contrary to the spirit of the Law on the work of investigative committees. Namely, the investigative committee is a body appointed by the Croatian Assembly with the task of establishing all relevant facts about a particular case and informing the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, part of the members of this investigation committee understood his role so that at all costs he had to defend or attack something. That's not the role of the commission. The role of the commission and all members of the commission is that in a more critical way, so with a higher dose of skepticism, they approach the identification of all facts in a way that examines the documentation and examines possible witnesses and exploits the other instruments that the law gives them in disposition. That didn't happen. Most of the members of this investigation committee at all costs tried to stop the work and turn it in a different direction. Similarly, to prevent the use of some mechanisms that were on the committee’s disposition, which is the hearing of witnesses and the confrontation of witnesses. For the first time in the history of the Croatian Parliament, it happened that a body appointed by the Croatian Parliament could not function normally. I guess from the Roman triumvirate to this day, it hasn't happened that the president of a body can't convene sessions, but that it must have the consent of the vice president and the secretary. It's funny, and it's also mocking democratic practices. Similarly, if it is clearly defined by the Rules of Procedure of the Committee in which the meetings are convened, after the session is concluded, the session cannot continue or call for a new session without an equal procedure when it has already been established that it can be done by the President, the Vice-President and the Registrar in agreement, then it cannot be otherwise, and this has happened here. Here they mock one parliamentary practice. So, in principle, the report of this Committee shows all the inability of this Committee to do its job to the end in accordance with the law and according to the Rules of Procedure. At the beginning of the commission's work, there was an agreement that all members of the commission would have the right to propose a way of working and hearing witnesses we consider relevant and until a certain date held water, and then, suddenly, 5 votes were withdrawn and 5 votes prevented from calling key persons from the public procurement system of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. Similarly, to prevent the confrontation of witnesses who are unquestionably found to be not telling the truth, or to give their contradictory statements the impression that someone is lying in an orderly manner. This is not at all different from facing witnesses, and even then it is doubtful whether an attitude would finally arise or should be reported in such a way that this House of the High concluded who was not telling the truth. It is obvious from the Commission's work that abuses in the public procurement system have occurred before and that it has turned into a kind of normal practice, that the State's audit every year has established irregularities, and that the ministry has been completely deafening its recommendations and opinions, doing what it wants. For 2004, the State audit made 9 key remarks requiring 9 procedures, i.e. the principle of urgent changes in procedures. In the 2005 report, the State audit found that as many as 8 out of 9 findings, i.e. the recommendation did not respect anyone. And that's probably how it went years ago and it's a disgrace to all the ministers so far. It is not only the shame of Minister Roncevic, but also his predecessors. I'm sure he continued the practice of his predecessors. To what extent it was implemented is another question and it was not the subject of the work of this Research Commission. But it was obvious that in the public procurement system, the Ministry of Defence was doing what was wanted and that the minister's discretionary right to defend certain acquisitions was declared special, of particular importance and to avoid the regular public procurement system being misused on all kinds of nonsense. That's how food was obtained, that's how underwear was obtained, that's how officers' uniforms and soldier's uniforms were obtained, that's how other supplies were obtained. To explicitly my question at the Committee's meeting when Mr Roncevic testified, he replied that it was so designed to please domestic producers. Will we be surprised tomorrow when the European Union calls on us why we are violating the rules, principles and regulations that we ourselves have brought about public procurement? These are not military trucks, these are not trucks that have sophisticated military equipment, these are not trucks that should be specially ordered and entered that area we call military secret. These are trucks that can be delivered by at least 8 large manufacturers present on the Croatian market and one and the other procedure has been established. The fact is, the Department of Defense is carrying out what the Chief Staff ordered him to do. The fact is, the main headquarters has defined the needs of getting a truck. The fact is, at the end of the day, trucks were bought that didn't come looking for headquarters. Explicite was Chief of Staff, General Josip Lucic said he was not aware that there has ever been a change in the technical specifications of the vehicle compared to those originally ordered. Therefore, no document could be obtained by the Commission which would definitely determine that the technical and tactical characteristics of the truck to be purchased are changing. It calls for a letter from the Chief Staff that actually speeds up the process and practically bestows and prays that this 2-year strip is finally resolved, in which on the one hand, the Chief Staff is looking for supplies, and on the other hand, the ministry is making it difficult all the time. It was quite clear from the documentation that was in our disposition that it was clearly deliberately entered into the so-called. Zeitnot, in a timeline that the minister later even explained by the need to spend the budget. The second thing, the chief defence inspector for years, has regularly carried out inspection of all procedures related to the operations of the Croatian military institutions and units, and every time these procedures were related to the procedures of the defence ministry, surveillance was carried out, i.e. inspection and what was done there. For 2004, it was perfectly normal for equipment to be supplied to the Croatian Army's technical equipment lists to check that all documentation is complete. It is clear from General Milicevic's statement that the inspection, i.e. that only those cases which had not been completed were processed by the defence inspectors, or whose documentation had not been properly archived. In this case, it was found that key documents were missing and that is why the inspectors caught up with the case looking for where these documents were, asking them to be delivered so that they could complete the entire file and write a final report. The report, i.e. General Milicevic's statement, made it clear that the documents were denied, i.e. that the people who were legally responsible for keeping the buildings did not respect the law because the documents, and above all the purchase contracts, i.e. the contract was not where it was located and held for months elsewhere. It is clear from the statement made by General Milicevic, General Lucic and Mr Roncevic that contradictory statements have been made, that someone is not telling the truth. We were not able to verify who it was, since we were not allowed to face it, but we were able to find that General Lucic in his statement to the Committee made a conflicting statement in relation to the statements he made to the President of the Republic in his letter of 10 January 2005. He referred to some of his statements as statements in an effect before the Investigative Commission. After four years, keeping the President of the Republic in error for four years, the question arises whether General Lucic could be Chief of Staff one minute more? He's lost his moral credibility. Furthermore, the way in which four members of this commission were prevented could be seen precisely in the fact that we were not allowed to face the main witnesses who apparently made contradictory statements. But what we could conclude from Mrs. Šima Krasic's testimony is that the State Audit was not at all reviewing the documentation which was the subject of the so-called so-called State Audit. the first procurement and that it was not at all able to establish in parallel whether, in the first and second parts of the procurement, such procedures have occurred in the first and second parts of the public which bear witness to the breakthrough of the intended appropriations, i.e. possible damage to the state budget in such a way that something is paid more than possible to be used on the market. This concerns because it is obvious that the State Audit on 2 occasions had two different approaches. The information in the 2004 report, the information in the 2005 report, does not match. The 2005 report says that the programme was managed to implement, on the basis of which Minister Roncevic, then, practically excluded this procedure from the regular system, which is one programme that allows the direct conclusion of a deal with that client which guarantees that a certain percentage of the value of the goods or services will be executed, i.e. to be delivered by domestic producers. None of us were able to see a single document in the Committee to document it. Never did the manufacturer who delivered these trucks sign a contract with the Ministry of Economy, and it was never agreed that everything should be transparent. We do not know whether these 5 million kuna values were actually done in Croatian factories or not. The audit took it for granted that she didn't see a single note. This commission was thrown out mockery in a way that it was not allowed to reach all relevant facts and present them to the Croatian Parliament. It has been tried to disable, most votes have reached conclusions that have no basis for testimony, no witnesses, no documents themselves, but are more impressive. It was not the commission's task to show the majority of the majority over the minority or vice versa, but to establish all the facts, to subsidise this House, and to decide whether the House has any elements that would indicate abuse, or to damage that could possibly be done to the state budget. Unfortunately, we have not adopted such a report. It was adopted in the informal part of the session that followed after the President of the Commission concluded the work of the Commission and this already proves in itself that the work of the Committee was understood as a possible fig leaf on the nakedness of HDZ practice in public procurement in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34372	Thank you. A few corrections. Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34373	So indeed in a number of incorrect allegations, I will correct only one, when my colleague has repeatedly said, quote, that the investigation committee or most have prevented the hearing of witnesses. That's not exactly an esteemed colleague. The investigation committee did not prevent the hearing of witnesses on all the essential circumstances that should have been assessed in the work of the investigation committee. The proposal was rejected to face witnesses because it was considered an unnecessary waste of time and in fact contrary to the provisions of the law and the decision to set up an investigative commission, so I will quote. "According to this, the Commission of Investigations is obliged to carry out research actions for which it was established no later than three months." So, within 3 months, "and afterwards submit a report to the Croatian Parliament with a proposal for measures." Everything you have suggested, you have proposed to extend this deadline and to continue and further politicize this tape on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34374	Second Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34375	Thank you very much. Well, there's a colleague, Beus, driving all the time by truck on the left, and I've got to fix a whole series of driving parts. First. He said such trucks could be delivered by eight manufacturers. In this letter of November 25th, the headquarters told Minister Roncevic at the time that none of the suppliers met the technical characteristics except for the two. The minister of those two chose... The second is incorrect that General Milicevic has rightly carried out inspection. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia is no longer in the system where the generals were superior to the minister. And that's what General Lucic said in his investigation. So, General Milicevic illegally took control of the minister. Other state administration bodies are operating over the minister. And third, that the State Audit gave the wrong offset report. Offset programme was introduced by Minister Roncevic, the regulation was not adopted and therefore the offset amounting to 16% of the domestic production of those vehicles was made that year later when the regulation was adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34376	Third Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34377	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's where my colleague Beus Richembergh talked more about the documents, and there wouldn't be so many false allegations about impressions. Because he must have been impressed by the amount of documents. Here, first of all. The vast majority of the members of the committee tried to prevent work. That's not true. The problem with the commission was the moment the last documents arrived. And then it was seen that the affair had nothing to do with it. And here was the panic of the SDP and HNS promoters. Next, these aren't military trucks. So another inaccuracy. For the export of trucks from Germany that were produced trucks to Germany, the defence minister had to sign that these trucks were being exported out. I doubt our carriers get a signature from the Secretary of Defense when they buy trucks. Next, third. Ms. Šima Krasic had no documentation, so she did not deal with price comparisons. Wrong again. Mrs. Šima Krasic made it clear that the tender was cancelled and there was no need to discuss the competition at all. Finally, if the State Review were to deal with all cancellations in Croatia, I think that's all it would do.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34378	And fourth, Mr. Representative Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34379	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Indeed a series of incorrect allegations. Some have already been corrected. But I'll do it again, because obviously in this story it takes a lot of repetition, it takes a lot of shape. Two incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Beus said the inspectorate has always supervised the ministry. It never is. The law does not allow it, and the examined witness, Chief of Staff General Lucic, said that he was also the Chief Defence Inspector and that he never went to the inspection report on the management part of the MORH because he... And another incorrect allegation, the Chief Staff did not determine the main headquarters did not ask for the mentioned document on November 25th, the Chief Staff of Logistics, the Meritor's Administration of the Central Command, and insisting on obtaining either Iveco or Mercedes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] "Iveco" was obtained because according to the contracted program, it was 17.5% cheaper. So it's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34380	Mr. Andrija Hebrang's club of representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34381	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to start by saying a few words in general about this affair. The "Caminia" affair is either a public procurement crime or a political crime in making up slander about a political rival, the third is gone. I hope that this debate, but also part of the ongoing investigation, will lead to the right answer in Croatia's interest. So, the charges of getting the trucks came out in the media. It is typical that the sources of these accusations were political centres of power, not the bodies of the state administration. So, we've never read in the media the charges of law enforcement, in the ranks of the state's attorney, in the ranks of the audit, but always from the center of political power. What were the charges? There were so many different people, it was immediately clear that something didn't smell. The first charge was that the minister embezzled 14.8 million kuna. It is the accusation of Joza Milicevic. The second charge was that he embezzled 10 million kuna, allegedly from the police. Which Mr. Faber denied. And third, that 5 million kuna has been subscribed due to unpaid VAT, which was naturally denied by Ms. Šima Krasic. The offset claim was also made up, as he was a year later when mature legal convictions were realized. So 16% of the work was done by domestic factories. The fifth announcement was that the trucks were not used. It was denied by General Lucic's investigation. And in the end, the State Audit was changing the statements. No, I don't. According to the European Union's guidance, the state audit came out before this Assembly as well as all previous years with a summary report. And in that summary report, she found that there were no irregularities. So, then who fabricated this affair? Someone who cares about the cancellation and investigation of the police and surveillance of the State Audit, who had no objections to the purchase of the truck. I have to express one fence here, because another part of the investigation is under way. That's the part that leads the Bounce. And it's a shame that our debate came before Uskok gave his report. I am deeply convinced that this debate will not be any pressure on the USKOK investigation. HOPING has so far shown its high professional consciousness. USKOK has proved that it is not subject to political pressures, so I am sure this time it will give objective supervision, the result it was. About the commission's work, too, a few words. The work of the commission worked according to the Rules of Procedure. A session was interrupted when the chairman of the committee failed to put our proposal on the agenda. And that's why we thought the session would continue, because the chairman of the committee broke the Rules of Procedure. That's what you can tell from the records. Most of them continued and made their own conclusions. If we were under pressure in the commission, we were. I will personally tell you two examples concerning me. In one Mr. Stazic as chairman of the commission, he accuses me of trucks. Don't be surprised. He's accusing me of being Deputy Prime Minister back then. Mr. Stazic knows well that at the time of signing this contract and selecting a truck, I did not act as Deputy Prime Minister, but at the hospital I fought for my own life in a hemorrhagic shock where mortality is 90%. Mr. Stazic knows that but he cares about other people's lives when it comes to the political goal. The second danger over my head was when I read in the paper that Mr. Beus was a member of the board on the Internet who wrote that he needed a doctor, perhaps he meant Dr. Cosic, I would be glad that his head, that the doctor from the commission should be lobated. ... I said I'd read it in the paper, I'd show you the clip, and you didn't publish it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So the doctor needs to lobotomy and let him burn in hell like a match. Why like a match? Because while the matchhead's on fire, you can't shut it down. So there was pressure, but despite that, we did do the task this Parliament gave us. From the results of our investigation, I will quote key sentences of key witnesses. Jozo Milicevic was heard at a secret closed meeting, according to the defence minister's decision. The result of that hearing was published the second day in the Morning List. I read Joza Milicevic's hearing in "The Morning List" earlier than I received from the parliamentary services as a member of the commission. It is the paradox of the moment of Croatian politics. So why is it that Jozo Milicevic and his report of a difficult meal, the embezzlement of nearly 15 million kunas, is not legal? Because General Josip Lucic, the Chief of Staff, is testifying to us. When asked if he was allowed to exercise the supervision of the General of the Civil Minister, he replied: "In my practice", and he was Chief of Staff and was the Chief Inspector in two terms. "In my practice," I quote page 51/1 of the phonogram, the chief of staff said: "In my practice, the chief inspectorate never supervised the ministries because the ministries were institutionally superior to the inspectorate.". The last sentence of Joza Milicevic's report completely excludes him from serious consideration because it reads: "Not all the documents were available to us, but if they were the conclusion might be different.". That sentence, of course, wasn't transferred by "morning" the next day, but it skipped, it was perhaps for some obnoxious people, but for those of us who wanted to be objective, it was completely read. He accused a man of 14.8 million kuna embezzlement but without documents because if he had them as I admit the conclusion could be different, so now Roncevic is taking it out. Why didn't he have the papers? Because he went into illegal surveillance. He admitted himself, you see in the phonogram, that he didn't read the Defense Act so he didn't know if he was competent to oversee the minister. That's too bad. From the long quotes I would quote Mrs. Šima Krasic. We asked Šim Krasic if she had identified any irregularities in her supervision. She replied, quoting phonogram 32/5: "No. We have found irregularities that have affected the giving of opinions but have not found illegal actions. The state inspectorate didn't find any illegal stores.". Next to us, an unusually important witness was Mr. Vladimir Faber, who was talking about a police investigation. Page 41/3 of the phonogram, on the question of whether a suspected crime was committed in the purchase of the truck, Mr. Faber replied, quote: "No. If we had found reasonable suspicion of a criminal offence, that any person had committed a crime, we would have decided on the form of a criminal report rather than a general report to the State's Attorney's office.". He added that investigations continue to be carried out, that the State's Attorney's Office can still initiate the procedure, etc. But he said, "No, we didn't find the elements of the crime.". Neither the police nor the State Audit found the elements of the crime, and they are very credible witnesses to us. And now that we've quoted key players to see what happened briefly with that purchase. Therefore, the first invitation to tender has been annulled on the basis of Article 64(1). The public procurement law, and the State audit, and the police had no objections. The contest has been annulled, who wants details, I cannot explain for a short period of time, let him read this article of the law. The second invitation to tender was held on the basis of Article 5, but now points 5 and 7. Public procurement law which determines how the tender takes place by direct contract. Neither this second competition nor the audit nor the police had any objections. Everything in the papers, on TV, etc. The report came from political centres of power, not the police and the State Audit. We'll see if it's from Uskok soon, apparently. In the second competition, the prices received in the first tender for that group of vehicles were agreed. So prices aren't made up, they're not bigger than they were in the first competition. Now, how did those who mutilate water try to cast the mud into clear clear water? The first competition offered six bidders with different prices. By letter from the Chief Staff, you have it in your attachment, since 25 November 2004, four bidders are excluded from those six because they do not have satisfactory technical characteristics. And the headquarters says, "We agree with the following offers," and quote the types of vehicles they agree with. There's all six types of vehicle listed. At the same time, there is a final dynamic in NATO's pre-accession negotiations. Therefore, the need for vehicle groups is changed and some vehicles are supplied. For example, a sanitary vehicle for NATO is not necessary, a bus for NATO is not necessary, a van for NATO is not necessary, it is decided because negotiations are pre-accession, as Minister Roncevic led those negotiations, I congratulate him once again, very successfully, we saw the result when we were admitted to NATO. He was in charge of the negotiations, and he was instructed that we should strengthen military trucks, so of all six groups of vehicles, he decided to buy the so-called. Group 2. For Group 2 this memo, the headquarters was exclusively except for the Iveco truck and Mercedes, and due to this letter, the service of Minister Roncevic of the then minister continued a direct contract with only the two producers. So, not by your own free will, but by the choice of headquarters. Why headquarters? Because the headquarters is the advisory technical body of the minister, because the ministry has no person who could even interpret the technical characteristics of the vehicle, the headquarters has them. It excludes four suppliers not because they are not good, and they have military performances but did not offer them in this contest. So it's not true that other NATO countries have these manufacturers with equipment that is offered, no, have a much higher level of equipment that has, of course, a much higher price. And what vehicles were purchased? Vehicles only from another group, those unnecessary at that time due to the NATO-access dynamics, were not obtained because there was no money, only vehicles from other groups and only according to the headquarters's recommendation. Iveco and Mercedes entered the short-term selection. Of those two, the ministry found Iveco cheaper around 16, 17%. And that's why Iveco chose. So Mercedes was more expensive by 16%. And another proof that it was all right is that none of the bidders complained about the choice and had legal options because they knew that they had offered these four technical characteristics below the level required and Mercedes had good vehicles that needed to meet the conditions but was 16 to 17% more expensive. So this isn't about public procurement crime, it's about procedures that both the authorities, the police and the state audit have given the opinion that it's perfectly fine. Who then invented the affair and what it serves I leave the public to judge. But in advance I can argue, the irreparable damage to the Republic of Croatia has been done because the affair of trucks across Europe has been taken as an example of corruption at the highest level. We see here that corruption was not met, that NATO standards were met, that everything went according to the Public Procurement Act, that that made four suppliers that were cheaper and that you see in so-called. Stazic's columns are mostly red, compared to those excluded by the Staff with those bought by the ministry. So why do those excluded compare? For political reasons. Once again, I conclude. There's been a lot of imaginary affairs. The Zuzul affair, it had to leave the government, has now won a dispute in court, but the consequences have remained politically. Not long ago, Dr. Bergman, a former HZZO director, accused of attracting a million euros, all the investigations showed that he did not, the man was demoted along with his family for life. Rončević will hope to save us, not only with this parliamentary debate, but also with the investigation of Uskok, we will see what will be the result. But in conclusion, the following, imaginary affairs are harmful for two reasons. First, because when the public is busy with imaginary affairs, it enables real corruption to progress peacefully in the background. And others, because we muddle ourselves in front of Europe, we raise ourselves a reiting perception of corruption on cases that later in court show that they were not corruption but the lamb in Croatia, to individuals remains. And finally, we appeal that the affairs are not made up, that the real criminal offences are being prosecuted by all means through the courts, so if you want to condemn the media but that democracy in the Croatian state is not being misused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34382	Thank you. Two corrections. First Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34383	Mr. Hebrang deliberately twists the thesis. So the statement was literally: "The work of the investigation committee on trucks: lobotomy directed by a doctor who will burn in hell as a match.". So, uh... And the doctor, I don't know, maybe Mr. Hebrang knows. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Secondly, what's been going through this whole time as a key piece of evidence, as a key document, has been called by someone's mother of all documents, it's this letter of November 25, 2004 from the General Staff, which is in direct contradiction with the find of the technical section of the procurement commission, which is made up of the experts he has just appointed, just named the Chief Staff. Those who found that all bidders in the first procedure offered such trucks that fully meet the technical standards. On my question to General Lucic whether there was any document that changed the position of the Chief Staff on whether all suppliers were still on the list of those who met the technical requirements, he said there was no document or such knowledge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34384	Second correction, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34385	Dear God, there are at least 20 allegations to be corrected. I'll try three. It's going to be all Hebrang, all the vehicles didn't have technical, required technical... characteristics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's not true! So the technical part of the first commission establishes everyone meets the required conditions, all the vehicles offered. Secondly, the contract continued only with those two bidders and Ivec, however, did not, no negotiations were conducted with anyone else because the minister ordered a contract with Ivec, or with the Euro Truck, and only such a contract was concluded. There were no negotiations with two of the most favourable bidders. Thirdly, Uskok has shown that he is not under pressure. That's for the best. For four years, USKOK was supposed to ask the police in front of the investigation. When did he ask for them? Only when Roncevic was removed from his post as interior minister. So much for the pressures and the independence of these pressures.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34386	SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34387	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Since the President of the Republic of Croatia and the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, Stjepan Mesic, pointed to certain irregularities in the purchase of military trucks in 2004 and pointed to the non-transparentity of the procedure under which the procurement was carried out and with which the defence minister, Mr Berislav Roncevic, was associated, who made such a decision in Croatia, has created a kind of institutional silence. The case was silenced by the MUP, the police kept quiet, the state's attorney's office kept quiet, the state's audit, the judiciary kept quiet, Prime Minister Sanader kept his mouth shut. So all those who should have talked about it were silent, not just talking, but acting to investigate what had happened, who had sinned, who had done the damage, who had damaged the citizens for millions or had not damaged them. But he didn't silence the President of the Republic and the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, he made it clear and did not say once that the purchase of military trucks was not clean. This obligation is for all institutions of the rule of law to act, investigate, investigate possible criminal acts if indicated by every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. It's been quiet for four years, and not by accident. It was silenced because it was thought that silence and oblivion would cover this case, that citizens would forget about this one, only one more in a series of affairs of the ruling HDZ structure and that then they would be able to retaliate and unpunished from the state budget. These are all affairs that push us very far from the main political goal of the Government of Ivo Sanader, to enter the European family. But the fact is that lighting up all major financial affairs and getting to the truth stand in front of the wall when they reach the top of power. Brodoplit, chairman of the Supervisory Board, current defence minister Vukelic. So pompously announced "Maestro", headed by the board of directors of the Deputy Prime Minister Polancec, and so on. To make things more tragic, after being called to the responsibility of the person most responsible for the so-called so-called. The "Kamioni" affair, which is Defence Minister Berislav Roncevic, Prime Minister Sanader has appointed him interior minister. So, Police Minister Roncevic should investigate himself as defence minister. Let's not forget, meanwhile, Minister Roncevic has been removed from the post of interior minister, as a result of his inability to ensure the rapid and effective functioning of the system in accounting with all types of crime and corruption, of course. If it wasn't tragic, it would be funny, because something like that is only possible in Croatia managed by HDZ. What would be resolved in a normal, democratic, legal, European state in four days, has been in place for more than four years in Croatia. We in the SDP did not calmly look at this silence, this ignoring of the apparition of corruption, and for this reason we initiated the establishment of an investigative commission that would aim to determine what actually happened. So, after the institutions of the rule of law failed to function in either four years when they showed either their incompetence or deliberately covered up the case, the only thing we have left is the Croatian Parliament as the supreme representative body of Croatian citizens. Of course, the ruling majority has made it possible for us to do so, but from the very beginning of the Commission's work, it has clearly shown that there is no political or any other will to determine all relevant facts that would finally take off from the agenda another affair of the ruling. And in order for the affair to be resolved and removed from the agenda, it is necessary to establish the truth. The vote is certainly not a path that comes to the truth. The ruling majority has already shown clearly how it is going to work at the adoption of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Commission. The truth doesn't matter, the number of hands is the most important. But not even a large number of hands can hide the fact that at the invitation tender, the most favourable bid for 76 vehicles amounted to HRK 39 million, and that the minister bought almost twice as many trucks as 39, for only 4 million kunas less, or 35 million, respectively. But that is why the force of the number of hands hid from the public the testimony of General Joza Milicevic before the Investigative Commission, although the same document was signed by the defence minister for both General Milicevic and General Lucic, who testified in the presence of the public, the same document. There is a legitimate fear of general Milicevic's testimony, who, as chief defence inspector, has exercised control over the disputed purchase of the truck and has found that nearly 15 million kunas have been overpaid. When you did not know how to deal with general Milicevic's arguments, you tried to tarnish him as an honorable man and a Croatian officer. The fact is that the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces, General Josip Lucic, said in his testimony that Defence Minister Roncevic had never consulted him when deciding on a direct contract. But you are therefore on the proposal that what the Law on Investigation Commissions predicts, General Milicevic and former Defence Minister Roncevic and General Lucic and Roncevic, the power of the not arguments, but the number of hands rejected and simply completed the work of the commission, although it was clear and visible that their statements do not correspond to anything, are on the contrary the diametric opposite. In preventing any serious intention to investigate the "Caminia" affair, other institutions, obviously under the control of the ruling policy, participated very actively. Let's just remember that ridiculous, actually embarrassing balling, statements between the State's Attorney's Office and the State's audit where the dates were disputed when someone sent a letter to whom, not who was responsible for the theft of millions from the Department of Defense. Let us remember that a incomplete State Audit report has been sent to the Parliament, in which key data are important for the investigation. That can't be an accident. Police only after Minister Roncevic was removed from his post as interior minister launched an investigation. Things seemed to be moving from a dead end when the Chief Director of Police became Mr. Vladimir Faber. However, and it seems that HDZ could not tolerate, although political consensus was reached here in this assembly last year on changes in the MUP, the police and the Ministry of Justice, when the rulings came to their throats and when the country's security situation and the sense of security among citizens demanded a gathering in battle against every type of crime. One of the key figures was the chief police director who was now removed, without an explanation after eight months in that position. It is often mentioned that one of the reasons why the Chief Director of Police went away is his insistence on ending the investigation in the Camioni affair. No one has denied it. So what now? The HDZ majority will vote their so-called so-called HDZ. The conclusions that should convince the public that corruption, crime in the Camion affair was not at all true, even though there were no valid arguments and no explanations on where and in whose pockets there were millions of kunas, who bought the house and who had a blinded car. In the SDP, we believe that the Croatian public has recognized the real truth and will not be deceived by these HDZ conclusions imposed. The SDP will resolutely reject HDZ's conclusions as falsifying the truth and as an attempt to conceal a corrupt action whose tentacles spread to the very top of the government. Finally, I believe that Croatia is further and further, with this way of ruling from the European Union. When HDZ took power in 2004 to join the European Union, we shared four years. Today, in 2009, not that Croatia has failed to achieve its goal but is far more distant from it, I fear more than four years. All thanks to the lack of political will to deal with corruption, thanks to Prime Minister Sanader, his ministers and his party. And it is not the biggest damage caused only by the blackout of 15, 10 or 5 million kunas that have disappeared through the "Caminia" affair, much greater damage that this way HDZ shows and sends a message to citizens that corruption is allowed, that corruption will not be punished and that citizens cannot believe in the rule of law. The SDP is against corruption and is therefore against such conclusions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34388	Thank you. A few corrections. First Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34389	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I think this is exactly what inspired political speech was, and it was the reason for the establishment of this commission, where it is clearly swarming with falsehood, and let's first say what should be corrected says the truth doesn't matter. The truth is extremely important, but you were actually afraid of that truth, because the truth is based on documents and not on stories like this, fictional affairs. So second. There's no stealing. There's no stealing. No one has taken any kunas, and you know it very well. Whether they bought cheaper or expensive trucks about it being to talk on the basis of which they were bought, and we documented that they were bought on the basis of the request of the Staff and that's all. Unfortunately, you'll have to admit that there are no affairs, but that's the hardest thing in the whole story.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34390	The second correction, Mr. Representative Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34391	Here's Mr. Vice President's correction to an incorrect quote. I quote: “For four years the institutions of the rule of law have not functioned.” Inaccurate allegations can be tolerated to you, but insulting the institutions of the Croatian state should not and should be aware of that. When the findings of state institutions don't match, then you claim that they don't work. Therefore, the only way Croatian institutions can function to comply with your political views. It's inadmissible and it's a matter of elementary political ethics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34392	Third Amendment, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34393	Thank you very much. Well, in this reading report, I'm only going to correct three incorrect allegations. First, that Jozo Milicevic, as general, was to exercise control over the minister. There is no such military system in Europe anymore. There are in some Asian countries, there are in some South American countries. Thank God, the general no longer controls the minister in Croatia, but there is a civilian administration over the military and cannot be supervised by the general. Any such surveillance is contrary to the democratic rules of military governance. Secondly, General Lucic said no one contacted the Staff. No, the Chief himself gave consent to the purchase of these two groups of vehicles. Only Iveco and only Mercedes from Group Two that can be seen from this letter of November 25th. And I must correct the inaccuracy of the European Union. Says a colleague that they've only left four years to the Union we've now extended. If we had gone through your methods and signatures like Racanov, we would have donated some of the territory of the Republic of Croatia long ago to be members of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34394	And last correction, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34395	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I will correct this part of the European Union. In fact, it is incorrect that in 2004, when we took over power, we had four years until we entered the European Union. There was no date of negotiations at the time, let alone the date of entry into the European Union. And it is incorrect that we are still with this kind of policy led by the prime minister of the European Union. Because right now in the European Union, we are told that we can conclude negotiations this year. So we can finish negotiations this year. Of course, it also depends on some of the neighbors you know best about how they were traded and how they were exchanged territory as you called it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34396	IDS representative club, Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34397	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I see we're still in the early stages of the debate on this report. So, later on, the maneuver will probably be on the trail of what was being discussed on Wednesday, you guys on military trucks, we on fire trucks, and that's actually just testifying to all the possible division of Croatian society when we see that the gross product for the first quarter has fallen below 6.7%, what is the budget deficit when paid wages and pensions are at stake. I think we're about to share more. But what I'm trying to say. No divisions have come to terms, but in this report. It may not have been possible for the first time for MPs to go with one report, it is clear that most would have reached their conclusions, but would have gone with two reports, better said with two conclusions. And he's already saying it in some way that maybe President Mesic was right when he wondered what the Investigative Commission was going to do when it ended up all the way most people wanted it to. And secondly, we've blocked this investigation by de facto blocking the work of the police, because the Parliament said or will say during today or Friday everything is clean, everything is pearly clean, pearly white as if it was washed I don't know Persil, etc. But the fact is that the purchase of these trucks is obviously surrounded by the President of the Republic even with some information, and I do not have much correction to try to quote individual statements, so I will go from Mr. General Milic's statement to normal. On page 11, he says: “The assignment was planned with an annual plan. There was an insurance of nearly 36 million kuna on the basis of the request of the Development, Equipment and Modernisation Service and a call for competition was launched for 5 groups of vehicles in a total of 76 vehicles, etc. etc." However, what is interesting here. Afterwards, the witness proves that the minister had personally called, Colonel Rogic, the chief of staff requested the case, answered him. He was told that he would consult the minister, and they called him the other day and said that the case could not go public. And in the end, he comes to the minister now and he asks him why he's so interested in the case. It's a done quote. He believes, Mr. Milicevic, further quotes: “It is important for this contract that the total amount of money from about 34 million kunas was bought 39 trucks, and that it was going to be bought after the cancelled competition by respecting the lowest price criterion. These 39 trucks were to be bought for about 19 and a half million kuna." Done quote. And another quote. "The defence minister asked the President of the Republic to retire him." Who? General Milicevic, with an explanation he dares not say because he is not so brave. When that failed, they sought a place where they could set up without being able to advance, and was appointed commander of a war school, etc. So, if all of this is true in the statement by General Milicevic, and General Milicevic is obviously seen by one strange criterion in Croatia being promoted in fact to be removed, then he should be rehabilitated as the other gentleman who has recently been promoted, and in fact everyone in the public reads it as a shift. We have seen such a promotion in Faber's case, and it seems to be becoming a practice with all those who would like to wave in this country, but it's obviously not a promising practice. It is a practice to protect individual authorities. I'm not going to say that some thief, that he took something, but that it did damage one 15 million kuna, by another 10 million kuna, or 5 million kuna, it's obviously true. The fact is that he's preferred, I don't think he's the cheapest, but the most expensive bidder, and it certainly can't be an accident. It is also interesting to report or to give a statement by Mrs. Šima Krasic, chief state auditor, and I will quote her, which on page 25, says: "As for the purchase of the truck, the auditors have concluded that it was two procedures, the tendering and its cancellation and later direct procurement. Thus, the ministry could have done the procurement in both ways, the auditors could only determine how it was done." It's a done quote. When it comes to the military, clearly, all things can't be obtained through public procurement, but such trucks should, I suppose, be able to. On page 29, I quote again Mrs Krasic, she said, she replied that state auditors had insight into the offers, following a review of the same and other documents, cited the fact that 3 suppliers made bids in an invitation procedure with VAT, left without VAT, as well as on the Eurocampion company. When asked whether the relevant offers of suppliers which had sent offers without VAT were relevant, although the Ministry of Defence stated in the invitation to tender the explicits in the tender documentation and forms that the final price was sought prior to registration, Mrs Krasic replied that the process of collecting offers had been annulled and the auditors could not continue to enter it because there were no further financial effects. Similarly, Mrs Krasic says that the headquarters directed only those two possible bidders, not all 6. Mrs Krasic replied that the auditors were explained that this was not about the same technical characteristics of the vehicle, which the auditors cannot determine and verify that only Eurocampion and Benussi had given the same offer, with Benussi giving the VAT and Eurocampion not. These offers result in a slightly lower base price for Benussi than Eurokamion, but in that case business gets this other company. To be honest, it's my fault that one Benussa didn't get the job. Why? Because it's a company from Pula, but aside from now, a local patriotism, if Benussi was more favourable, then why didn't he get the job? Now, however, I'm going to quote a few statements from Mr. Faber. Let's start with this on page 40 where he literally says they didn't want to file a criminal complaint against Minister Roncevic and that they went with a general report to the State's Attorney's Office, i.e. USKOK, it is quite incorrect, if they had found enough elements to establish with full certainty that there was a reasonable suspicion that a crime was committed, they would have certainly reported every person and so did Mr Roncevic. But further on page 41, Mr. Faber replied that they never comment on newspaper writings. The fact is that the results found that the difference in supply between the two companies was 10.2 million kuna. One media media mentions 14 to 15 million kunas, however, it explicitly states that the difference is 10.2 million kuna. Would Mr. Faber still perform like that today, I don't know. I guess you probably wouldn't. But I think with his promotion, the MUP lost one good cop, got a politician named Faber who's certainly not going to have anything to do. We had, as someone here said before, an affair of trucks, today we have trucks or that affair and Faber affair. We're going out of an affair in an affair. We become in the right sense that word country case where no case in this country can be solved, and if it goes too deep, whoever does it, ah will get by the fingers and be resolved. What am I saying? Croatia may, as someone said, be stopped by Slovenian, more precisely this Power's indiscipline, although we agree with those who say this, cooked it with those clumsy Racan-Drnovšek's parade, but I will add here also to the unprincipled of my time to Sanader-Janša's agreed incidents about or on Plovania. But let's let it go, but for us right now, surely the biggest problem is this cover-up about every case that smells like corruption at some higher or higher levels. Mr. Faber's statement, I'm kind of reading, come on, the minister's not guilty, but someone in the system, because the budget, he says, is damaged by 10.2 million kuna, it's obvious. Now, we don't want to get to one of those. If something else was going on here, if all things hadn't been done, I'd read or quote just one article in the New List, the Voice of Istria since Saturday 27.6.2009. "Several people were heard further this week by police for the affair of obtaining Morh's trucks, including former defence minister. The need for further talks came after a debate in the Assembly during which information has been provided so far to unknown police and USKOK. No new breaking information has been reported... "... etc., that's what those who asked them say. That came out Saturday, 27.6.2009. Allow me another quote on page 44. I quote, "in which case they'd probably be, but they don't want to prejudge the definition of a criminal act of making a savings contract, that's what Mr. Faber says. The damage has not been demonstrated, i.e. there is only a difference in the offer sheets, but not material proof that the adverse effect has been caused in relation to the amount. The performance is under way where the competent expert should determine whether this other offer has met the characteristics required by the profession, i.e. The army. That's what competent witches determine and it's happening right now. Clearly, Mr. Faber was removed before that so that it would not be determined. That is why police decided on the form of a general report, because they cannot prejudge anyone's guilt at that stage. All in all, it is my impression that there was no will to go to the end in the case of Trucks neither by the political, nor by the authorities, nor by the state auditors, nor by the police authorities. I have the impression that someone is being protected, that the damage to the budget was done, that the president of the state was being deceived, too. It also marginalised that the clear Republic of Croatia is losing credibility, and that citizens are thus losing confidence not only in the rule of law, but in the state as a whole. What I welcome is the "work of the commission" that delivered all these statements. I think that should be welcomed, but it is clear that the opposition has defined itself for one conclusion, and the hair has offered its conclusions. This is common in Croatia, and citizens understandably will pass judgment alone when the courts certainly do not. The IDS will clearly support this gentleman's report or rather this conclusion by Mr Stazic, Dragovan, Beus and Šprema, but I have deliberately used all the allegations to avoid some replicas. And now if there will be and how many, we'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34398	Thank you. We'll inform you that at 11.03 minutes, it's past 10 minutes' notice. We have two corrections. First Mr. Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34399	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague of Cain's incorrectly claiming that we're becoming a country case. In fact, that is the most painful thing in the whole story, because that story is going out, towards the European Commission, towards Europe. And no wonder if we step on our own, they'll step on us. Secondly, here's a late congratulations to the IDS for coming out of Racan's government in time, when he realized that this government was going out of the affair in the affair. Lenac, Vrhovnik, Cacic, Koning, INA, everything else, Rijeka Bank and the like. So congratulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34400	Correction Mr. Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34401	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will correct the two incorrect allegations he made in his debate, Mr. Cain. General Milicevic has not been removed from the post of chief inspector. He was never the Chief Inspector. He was a behavioral officer. He handed over his illegal inspection report sometime in the 5th month, and was deployed in December 31st as commander of the war school, the most prestigious military school within the Ministry of Defence. It's completely incorrect. And just for information, Mr. Caine, the Benussa you mention, he himself wrote in his memo, since in their offer that we did not include all the necessary NATO standards in the vehicles in question, which, of course, adds to giving up further supply. Mr. Caine's company is in Fažana, go check it out, there's a memo there and don't be surprised, unsettling. People gave up on their own because they realized they weren't offering wanted trucks.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34402	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34403	In accordance with Article 209, 214 Mr. Representative corrects me, and I only quote General Milicevic's statement, which he says. "The defence minister asked the president of the Republic to retire him. With an argument he dares not say, for he is not so brave. I don't know what he's afraid of. When that failed, they sought a place where they could set up without being able to advance, and was appointed commander of the war school," etc., etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34404	What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34405	It's not as important as the violation of the Rules of Procedure... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34406	It's important because it's being abused. It's not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, please don't use such things. The place where you respond to the correction of the incorrect quote, you say what you will. You have no right to do that. ... And last on behalf of the clubs, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic on behalf of the HSS. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34407	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I think it's a lot of our citizens looking at us in this kind of truck and truckers and thinking that we have more important and smarter things to do. But here we have a report from the Commission of Investigation that we have to process, and in the end, in whose work I have been involved. I will try to present the details of the work of the commission as well as the basic elements which we at the Croatian Peasant Party Club have managed when we adopt positions related to this report of the Research Commission. For you colleagues and colleagues, but also for the purpose of getting to know our public about the facts related to our tasks, obtained from the Croatian Assembly, mentioned in the decision to set up the Research Commission, it is necessary to repeat what the Research Commission was obliged to do. Why am I doing this now and I'm repeating it? Because some discussions are going in the wrong direction, they are not giving answers to the questions asked, but they are dramaticizing certain situations and comedy shows and show the work of the commission. Our assignments were to determine what bids arrived at the invitation to tender? What offer, and what bidders were the most favourable? Why was the invitation to tender annulled, who is, and why did he disband the first commission? Why did the approach be obtained by means of a direct contract? What made only 39 trucks available when there was a need for a larger number? How much was offered price per truck? Was there any chance of guessing a particular company? What has the inspection report or any irregularities damaged the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and in what amount? Is that what we've determined? We've established these facts, we've received and delivered this report to you. Let's discuss it, adopt it, and not burden the public with these affairs anymore. In order for the public to form their own judgment on the work of the commission, we had to remind ourselves of what we had to establish as an investigative committee because we saw that in some previous discussions it was turning away from these basic tasks that we received and received from you. In determining the facts and I can say freely the determination of the truth, we were governed by the law and by certain decisions made on the basis of these legal rules, as well as by the Rules of Procedure which allowed me to carry out a successful and good work of the commission. We took documents from state institutions and institutions as statements of witnesses as credible documents that allowed opinions to be formed and these conclusions were reached. We were of the opinion that the requested encounters of witnesses would not contribute to successful work or the commission would carry out its tasks within three months so as to make the decision to form it. I personally, as well as the HSS club, tried to avoid media bickering and entertainment scenes that were all just non-obligations and duties of the commission. I am convinced that our public could only partially identify the facts that through our discussions they will not continue to turn into areas and topics that are not set as the objectives of the Commission's work. I will also make some concrete views of Croatia's peasant parties regarding the report's allegations. We in Croatia consider the first competition to be led and annulled in accordance with the laws. The above decision of the Agency for Material Resources of 15 December 2004 states: "The Agency for Development, Equipment and Modernisation is obliged to revise the supply requirements in terms of reducing the quantity or giving up of the purchase of a particular type of vehicle and in order to align the value of the purchase with the really provided means.". We believe that the second tender was carried out on the basis of the Public Procurement Act. Neither was there any objection to the implementation of this tender to the State Audit or to the police because it was governed under the law. In particular, we believe that the choice of vehicles was influenced by two facts, the first course of negotiations for the harmonisation of partner objectives, as the accession of the Republic of Croatia to NATO was near, and the letter of the Chief Staff, which was set by suppliers who did not meet these new conditions contained in the partnership objectives. In order to meet the requirements of the partner objectives of all the vehicles covering the first tender, only the second group of military vehicles has been selected and the number of individual vehicles has changed in accordance with the requirements of the partnership objectives. However, individual prices of the same vehicles in the first competition were offered for the final price base of the negotiations. The selection of bidders to negotiate with has been determined by the Chief Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the Board of Logistics and the expert body for the assessment of the technical characteristics of the vehicles offered. By letter, the Chief Staff of the Armed Forces requested the exclusion of suppliers who did not meet the new technical requirements. When we analyze these facts and put the dice in this mosaic of ours, we have to ask ourselves a question. If by any chance the decision had been different whether we would be a NATO member today, or whether we would meet certain negotiating positions. We think they wouldn't because they wouldn't meet the required standards. We are therefore convinced that it is good that the decision has been made on the basis of a letter from the Chief Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia because they knew what NATO standards are and what technical characteristics of the vehicle they must meet. We believe that institutions have done their part of the work and we have no other indicators that would talk differently about these conclusions that are ahead of us. We therefore believe that the report is objective, that it has completed and accomplished the tasks set. I do not believe that anyone, based on the documents and statements of witnesses presented to us in the commission, could form different conclusions than these. We believe that the decisions of Mr Roncevic's defence minister at the time were based on legal regulations, which is more important on the suggestions of the profession and the conditions that allow the documents on the reconstruction of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the decision to obtain a vehicle is just one of the few decisions that the NATO Alliance has made to us one step closer. We can only repeat what is visible from these documents and the findings of the society's competent institutions that the state budget is not damaged. The attempt to seek truth on the basis of assumptions and false documents or documents produced during the commission's work as someone's desire to turn away from the important to the irrelevant, and to deceive the public has proved to be a bad solution because here we are dealing with irrelevant things at least irrelevant to our citizens. Reliable documents and witness statements enable the arrival of a real true condition related to the purchase of a vehicle, enable the adoption of these conclusions and this report after five years of lighting and we believe ends with this dealing with ourselves at times and times when we ourselves have more important and smarter work in view of the situation in society. The Croatian Peasant Party club supports this report and we believe that through it the public is aware that there are no hidden facts, there are no harmful contracts and that state institutions are successfully working and performing their tasks and tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34408	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Mr. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34409	Mr. Greek Stanko said on several occasions that we're turning off the topic, that comedian some perform. I say no. I was just quoting certain statements and Mr. Milicevic thinks, it says right here, that he's been removed. But he says further, after his shift, Colonel Jasa, who led the surveillance, got a transfer to Knin, and he advanced, retired Blaženka Cyprus, and was replaced by Mr Domljančić, a Stjepan inspector for human resources who resented someone in writing reports, etc. If that's how we play with the people of this country it might be a bigger problem than 5, 10 or 15 million kuna, regardless of what our gross product and government deficit are at this point 15 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34410	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will now interrupt briefly and vote on the laws under discussion. And this is the final proposal of the Law on State Law, the Final Proposal of the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime, the Final Proposal of the Law on Police Affairs and Powers and the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act. For all four of these laws, it is necessary in the Parliament that, in the vote, the supranational majority of all MPs, i.e. 77 votes, so they can be adopted. And as planned and imagined to make 1. The 7th could come into effect, that means tomorrow. So please consider this. I've asked earlier clubs to arrange for MPs to be there, so now we're going to get in the way. Mrs. Opacic on behalf of the SDP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34411	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask you to take a break for the club, for at least 10 minutes for the voting consult.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34412	Thank you. I'm setting a break. ... Is that what you're looking for? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah, one and the other clubs asked for a break. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes and we'll continue at exactly 11 o'clock and 36 minutes. Here you go. I ask MPs and MPs not to go any further since I have pointed out the majority required to vote on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34413	We're continuing the debate. Individual debate on the report on the work of the Research Commission. The first is in an individual debate by Ms. Milanka Opačić. Here you go. Please, continue the session, the word was received by Ms Milanka Opačić. Please sit down and if we could just shut up a little bit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34414	Thank you, Mr. President. I have to say, here we are, and here we have lost a single amount of time by me completely unnecessary because of just one sloppyness in preparing this vote. And I also have to say that I am sorry that we are even discussing these trucks today because it seems to me that for the citizens of this country it would be much better to discuss the economic situation in the country today, that we are already missing around 15 billion kuna in the budget, that in some way the financial system of the state has collapsed, that we can pay and settle as our obligations, not only outside of Croatia, but primarily towards our companies and our citizens. So what is before us is a very uncertain time and unstable and difficult for the citizens of this country. So it would be better if, instead of trucks that were to be done today, we had discussed things that are important for the lives of citizens who may not be paid or retired tomorrow. Unfortunately, though, we had to use the Committee, which is not the best mechanism for establishing the truth, but it was the only political means we could say that an affair that would be full of 4 years has to end or rather end, that this commission was exclusively used to force and encourage some institutions that should have done their job long ago to do it now. It's been said here that we sort of insult institutions when we say they didn't do their job. I think what's a fact and what's true can't be an insult, and the fact is that they're four years old and nobody's ever been into an affair truck. Namely, those who say that the affairs in the paper are not good, cloud people, I absolutely agree with that, they're not good. However, the question is why neither the State's Attorney's Office, nor the police have run for four years and have seen what's really going on and what's going on with the affair trucks because if both the attorney's office and the police were doing their job, we would have a clean situation today or we would have rejected everything that's been written in the paper or we would have a criminal application and some kind of trial. Unfortunately, we don't have any of that. So we have this commission that has done its job in very difficult conditions because of the lack of respect for the principle of arguments, but unfortunately the principle of force, the principle of number of hands, and that is unfortunately the characteristic of HDZ rule. There was talk here about the general not being able to oversee the work of the minister. Well, maybe it can't be formally, but every citizen who has any knowledge of some of the actions that were going to damage it, so at the expense of the state budget, or who is suspicious of some work, based on every tip of the citizen, the State's attorney and the police were supposed to react, and they didn't react. And here's the key problem. Do you know what the message is to Croatian citizens when they are four years old is not responding in this situation, but responds to the poor. Whoever doesn't pay for the parking lot, whoever gets a court ruling, doesn't pay for it, so the execution comes, very soon the police will arrive at his door and bring him in and when he doesn't pay, he'll do his time. Why is one criterion for an ordinary man, and why is another a criterion for those who are in power, who are ministers or something else? They're protected, there's no investigation for them, there's no rule of law for them, but for an ordinary man, the rule of law works very, very fast. And that's what bothers people terribly, so double criteria, one is allowed everything, the other is absolutely nothing allowed. There were stories about the whole story being launched from the political center. Well, of course, when the system institutions didn't react, neither did the attorney's office nor the police. So what else do we have left, rather than those who can talk from those positions pointing at something that wasn't good. This case has shown, in fact, that the system institutions are not functioning and that they are definitely by who knows which times, thanks to this commission, they have shown that no citizen can trust those who should pursue crime. I can't believe it because those who have so far reported to either USKOK or the State's Attorney's office some information, they were either beaten up pretty fast or the whole system came up against them and their life was turned into hell. We had an example here. something that's been filling the headlines in the paper for a full week, one way to put it, the bickering between the State Audit and the Attorney's Office is absolutely inappropriate. You can imagine what the citizens who saw the shooting between the state's auditor and the state's attorney who said, I sent something and said I didn't get it. She says she sent what I could, says the state's attorney, yeah, but that's not enough. My people, it's so unserious. This leaves one bad picture to the citizens and why do you think they have this picture of the judiciary, in general, of a system that should prosecute crime in this country. They don't trust anyone with full right, because this has actually shown how those who should be persecuted are acting. What was still scandalous was, in fact, when General Milicevic testified, when he gathered the strength to say some things and courage, then it was not going to disprove his arguments, but it was going to muddle him human. In human terms, he was muddyed that he was a liar, that he was dishonest, that he was immoral, even more in an interview Mr. Roncevic claimed that he was actually a bad general because he had no good reference for any advance, so he stayed where he is. I think that's something that's been below every level. All that Mr. Milicevic, or General Milicevic, said, I think it was necessary to disprove on the other hand the arguments, not by eating and defaming man that he is a liar and that he is simply incompetent and inextricable in his business in some way. And finally, I would like to say that this one delay in joining the European Union is, in fact, the biggest part of this policy that the HDZ government is leading, which is a policy in which no affair in the media has been discussed in this House or anywhere else is a solution by those who should have resolved it. From "Brodosplit," from an affair with the Privatisation Fund. So, a lot of affairs that are left unsaid. So Croatia has made one impression to Europe that we are not prepared to deal with corruption, with crime, that we are not prepared to judge it, especially when it reaches the very top of the government. E Europe doesn't really want such a country in its ranks. And that's why we're gentlemen dear to wait. And I would just like to say here that again what my colleague Dragovan said in his presentation on behalf of the club, which is that in 2004, when he came to power, he promised Croatian citizens he would introduce Croatia very quickly into the European Union. So I will quote to you the words of Prime Minister Sanader who then said, "I am sure we can complete negotiations and close chapters in a few years and follow the example of Slovakia that has managed to complete the negotiations in 2.5 to 3 years. It's our ambition and we'll be ready by 2007. "years." Dear colleagues, today is 2009, and we are further away from the European Union than we have ever been and we will be all until we realize that we have to do things in our own country for our own citizens, that we have to enter some reforms and that we have to set the system up so that it is equal for everything. Equal for one who has a thousand kunas of salary and works in a company, equal for a minister who behaves as a minister. The more I think that all of us who are here in politics in any position are much more exposed to that public and the more we have to look out for our behavior than some others have to in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34415	Thank you. We have a few corrections. First Mr. Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34416	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague, normally in a series of untruths, mentioning the same thing that ministers can't be prosecuted, so they can't be investigated or anything like that. What's right here in this case is known to include both the State's Attorney's Office and the USKOK and everyone else, as well as the police. But the most painful thing is when the police say there's nothing in it. It's the worst thing for imaginary affairs when it's proven to be gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34417	Thank you. Mr. Representative Berislav Roncevic. Here you go. Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34418	I'm correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Opacic. counterpart Opačić, Berislav Roncevic never said anywhere that General Jozo Milicevic is a bad general. Read that interview. ... Roncevic said and it says that General Milicevic is unspective. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] This means that it does not meet the standards of professional development. He had already failed to meet the standards of professional development before I entered the morh on the first day. Therefore, there are standards in moving in the career of active military personnel under some circumstances that occurred before I arrived, General Milicevic is unspective. That doesn't mean he was a bad general during the Homeland War. I haven't talked about it in a single letter.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34419	Correction Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34420	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, it's incorrect that there's a double criterion. So, for ordinary citizens and for those who are in power like you said. Because no one is exempt from persecution or from anything else that is related to it if he commits any crime. Secondly, you said that working on the commission was a demonstration of force, not an argument. That's not true. This is not true because the work was in line with all normal rules of conduct in democratic countries and by democratic standards. And most of them are always most. No matter how much she was, how she agrees. But most of them are most of them. It's the foundation of democracy, it's the basis of procedure. So it's completely incorrect. And thirdly, when you talk about the European Union, then probably the current president of the Swedish government who took over the Presidency of the European Union when he says that Croatia is at the threshold of the European Union and that he can finish negotiations this year. Are you trying to tell them they're lying, too? You want to tell Mr. Barroso that he's also saying he's lying? We all know what the obstacles are. As far as the judiciary of a colleague is concerned, we have fulfilled all the criteria, which may be explained to you by your fellow minister. We have fulfilled all the standards so that we can open this chapter. That we don't open it for other reasons than the one we know.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34421	Correction Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34422	Thank you, Mr. President. So I was forced to correct one of these allegations that was rather strange, which has been repeated since last night, in this show that we all could see in the evening, where the chairman of the commission who should worry about corruption, or prevent it, said the same thing. You said colleagues, the consequences of the government policy of the Republic of Croatia are unresolved affairs. That's about what you just said. Therefore, it is simply an incorrect but truly political disqualification. How can the government resolve an affair if, for example, it is made up and in what way? If it isn't, if there's been a lot of an affair in the right sense of the word embezzlement, so the government is supporting the bodies that are conducting all those procedures that are tied up, I don't know either for the initiation of the proceedings or for the investigation, etc. And how can the government take on all those consequences as you tell the solved, not solved, and I don't know the affair. So, among other things, because some of them are made up, so no one can solve them. And others have bodies that... The government is providing support for implementation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34423	Thank you. And another correction, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34424	Thank you very much. I'd like to just correct your incorrect assumption that Europe doesn't need a country, I mean Croatia, which failed to solve crime at the top of the state administration, so you said roughly. That's not true. And there hasn't been a stalemate in the negotiations because of any affairs, no crime. Europe and the European Union have far bigger affairs in their ranks than those that are fictional and real with us. Follow on the internet a big affair in Germany weighing 1 billion euros from only one company, watch money fraud in the English Parliament, etc. There is no obstacle on the way to Europe to any affair trucks or any affairs that are not invented but the high interests of certain circles of neighbouring Slovenia and others that blocked our negotiations so it would not be good for Croatia to enter the archives where it is not.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34425	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34426	Thank you. Mr. President. Well, obviously, the SDP is in trouble as soon as here and the colleague is saying that it would be better if we talked about something else today and not about trucks like it's what we encouraged the story about trucks because the affair if it's fake, if it's made up then it ends up and everything that's going to happen today is going to be just that we're going to prove that the affair isn't there. And how it all started, so we can remember those times. Namely, the contest has been called, the contest has been annulled, the vehicles obtained, and now a whole series of here illogicalities, false claims. We're talking about 76 trucks. There were no 76 trucks at all in the first competition, there were 30 and something that drove, trailers, everything and everything there. So it's not about trucks at all. Then, we're talking about something that happened, which is that the contest was canceled. The contest has been canceled. Goodbye, the competition's gone. And let's forget it happened a year before Racan's government opened a fire tank tender. There wasn't enough money, the contest was canceled. At a closed session of the government, something behind it was decided on the acquisition of 230 fire tankers of Mercedes, so let's ask ourselves how many states were lost because it was probably a lot cheaper in the offer. Did anyone make any money here? What's this about? Watch out, 230 fire tanks each more expensive than the Iveco truck and no one. And now after a year, let's do a little affair. The SDP didn't launch the affair first. In fact, it was about the offended president of the state and the injured generals and their vanity, and that was where it began to hang. In fact, President Stipe Mesic began to talk about it quite late, which is why I don't know a day today, but we know that he visited the Mercedes factory, that he probably thought Mercedes were better than Ivec, that there was a little sharper response from then-Minister Roncevic that offended the prime minister and then started the whole series, clearly the president insulted him, and then the president started a whole series of untruths of guys today, today there's no money, tomorrow he has money and unfortunately pays expensive advisors who completely wrongly advise him but it's no longer our problem. As far as the generals themselves are concerned, the fact is that General Milicevic himself said that he was hurt because he had not progressed, because he did not get some medal I don't know what already. Here, we weren't alone, there was a whole commission when the general testified. So in that injury, he wanted revenge in some way and he did exactly that he wrote a few false sentences first of all about some difference between this and that, about whether the state lost, where this is, where it is. So, completely unprofessional and unfortunately, we've convinced that the generals in the war we admired in peace don't get along very well. Among them is definitely General Lucic, who himself denied his very sharp letter to President Mesic, in which he claims trucks were bought and so on. What happened? The money wasn't enough. Okay, the contest's been canceled. After that, the pressure was to get vehicles, pressure above all, and the headquarters and NATO pact. Vehicles have been purchased. If the headquarters asked it to be either Iveco or Mercedes, and if the minister chose the cheaper trucks of the Iveco type. By the way, I have to say that the headquarters has been looking for a whole series of small SUVs, cars and similar things that have been found not to be necessary, even though trucks were bought, although after that General Lucic said that trucks were immediately put on the market, I don't know how much you followed in this huge pile of paper. It was said that trucks were purchased primarily as means of connections, that they were almost done by order, not almost but certainly by order, because some of the funds had already been purchased that were supposed to be mounted on these trucks and that these were definitely military trucks necessary for the operation of the headquarters, so the military needed for our soldiers going to other countries and that the proof was best because actually the German Defence Minister had to give permission to export such trucks. I'm sorry that when President Mesic visited Mercedes that he didn't visit Iveco, it might be easier for him to decide which side to go to. Next, as affairs arise. Well, I'll start at the end, from actually last night, where Mr. Jovanovic on "Open" says "The main goal is to bring down Prime Minister Sanader and HDZ's government."that's one thing. Secondly, here I say Mr. Stazic also said something earlier no matter how far past the goal was achieved. And what's the point? The goal is to explain to people that there is a government that is like this and like this, and we are the ones you should choose. We're nicer, smarter, better. But because we're not like that. And then we ask ourselves you're really not like that, but the memory is hard to erase, easier with computers than with people, so we remember when it was SDP's government. Here, now we mention here in Slovakia, how Slovakia came in and we didn't go in. So the question is, would Slovakia have gone in if, say, the neighbouring state had promised part of the sea, part of the territory, a huge part of the submarine, and then she didn't give it. I'm sure she'd have a lot of trouble getting in, but here's the Slovaks wouldn't do it in their sleep like the former government did the coalition and sure as hell that's the problem. As far as the European Commission is concerned, it is interesting. The European Commission is talking to us here saying that the main problem, the main evidence of corruption in Croats are trucks. And when we invite them to review the paperwork, to look at everything, that there's really no problem here looking a little weird because they're convinced by a complete opposition plus here's the president of the state, so people think, uh, authority is enough, I guess that's true. But I guess it's true and the truth is a big difference. It's not the only affair that's been invented, the affairs have been invented around the highway construction, around the highway section. So we've shown, we've received documentation that Cacic's highways are as expensive as the highways that were built during this time. So it's easy to invent an affair, but unfortunately it's hard to prove. And why is it so hard to prove? Because we have all the papers here. And that's what you, colleagues and colleagues know very well. That there's nothing out of this affair, that the affair doesn't exist and that it's actually the hardest thing in the whole story. In fact, the fact is that, I have to say the cheated media, some of the phonograms were added to the media, so, in part, they were accused of all of Šima Krasic, who turned out to have one report going here, the other there because someone from the ministry probably found a private report. In fact, Ms. Šima Krasic and the state audit are working on three reports. Three reports. The first report goes to the obvious and when it went to the obvious then it was said that when VAT is placed inside that there is no problem. He went, then there goes a normal report and a report for the Parliament, which is shortened according to our Rules of Procedure. Read our Rules of Procedure and you'll see. That we don't get a report here all over the hills like this, but actually get a brief report where all the most important things are that nothing's been silenced. What's the problem? The problem is that the opposition will come out of this. The problem is how to spread what was happening in the commission. The committee simply didn't want this to end. But when? The moment all the documents came. Then it was realized that the commission had to have an end, but here's a fellow Stazic in previous commissions liked to do it all summer, because then here's a little camera, a little light, a little reflectors, a lot of journalists and, however, the end has to come and the end will be bad for you. Why? Because not only this affair, we'll prove that there are no other affairs and then you'll become unworthy. So it's obviously a boomerang that's still broken on your head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34427	We have a lot of corrections and replicas. The first is Mr. Igor Dragovan's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34428	I'm correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Markovanovic who said it wasn't true to mention 76 trucks. You see, colleague Markovanovic, this is your decision to set up an investigative committee to determine the facts of this Croatian Parliament, you know? And here it stands, the Commission of Investigation is obliged to determine why the process of obtaining 76 trucks by the MORH, etc., so there are 76 trucks and the president of the Croatian Parliament is in your signature. Therefore, the fact and the credentials stand on one side. 76 vehicles 39 million kuna, 39, 35 million kuna. Double down, only 4 million won less. That's your whole story.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34429	Correction Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34430	Supposedly, the aim of this committee's work in opposition was to bring down the government. No, the goal was to get to know the public about this supply. You say they're deluded journalists, they're not journalists, and they're not journalists, they're not fools and they're not illiterate. The press received documents that were received by the commission. The press also came up with a transcript of the testimony you closed to the public. Why? Well, you were afraid the public would hear what Milicevic was saying, so you tried to hide it from the public. The goal is not to attack the government or Roncevic. The goal is to get to know the public about how this government worked and how it still works, and how it hides and resists all its forces today, and through this 10-minute exposure of yours to hide the unimaginative affair, but an affair that costs this country 14 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34431	Thank you. Mrs. Milanka Opačić's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34432	So I am correcting the incorrect allegations of my colleague Markovanovic who said that Croatia did not enter the European Union because of the former government. Yes, it is, you said it was all because of the former government that signed what she signed. You know what, Mr. Markovanovic, you've confirmed with your debate everything I've said, it's that when you don't have the arguments, then you muddle people. So you also muddle the former government of Prime Minister Racan, and you keep saying she's guilty of something. So I wonder if after 5 years of your rule in Croatia, Racan's government is to blame for 15 billion kunas missing in the state budget and for the collapse of the financial system?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34433	Thank you. It's not a budget debate. 4th Correction of the Inaccuracy, Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34434	Well, my colleague Markovanovic put out a whole series of incorrect allegations, and I'll fix two here. The illustration of Slovakia in the context of entry into the European Union is not possible because of what you mention about the sea and the submarine impossible Slovakia has no sea or sea. And secondly, that highways in Cacic's time cost just as much as today, you are denied simply the fact that today a kilometer of highways in the Republic of Croatia was no less than 3 times more expensive than at a time when the minister responsible for road construction was Mr. Radimir Cacic and that in the meantime not one single cost item of road construction increased by more than 100 percent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34435	Okay. We'll come wake up. Construction of highways, come on, correct incorrect allegations. 5th Mr. Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34436	It is not true that corruption affairs do not exist in real life but only in the dreams and vivid imagination of the opposition. And you can be sure if you read any of the last 10 reports of the European Commission or the Government of the European Union, which in the first place, not in dreams, but in the papers probably argues that Croatia's biggest problem is corruption, corruption affair. I would only remind Mr. Markovanovic of a small affair called Brodosplit, which is far and slowly but surely disappears in the fog and I have some courts waiting for me to disturb the public. It is fate that calls for corruption affairs in Croatia to be talked about by those who dare even if they are parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34437	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. She's Mrs. Dubravka Shuica's first representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34438	Mr. President, I answered the line, of course, listening to this whole debate, realizing that it is still the documentation that is on Mr. Roncevic's side and that speaking of the use of force by the SDP's club and by force interpreting the majority in some commission, I think it is absolutely inappropriate. However, the basic reason why I contacted you Mr. Markovanovic, you mentioned the name of Mr. Representative Jovanovic, you were on the "Open" show last night, where my smallness was mentioned by nothing. It is an incredible ease to say such unargumented facts as Mr. Jovanovic spoke of me and my property card. I just want to tell you here through this replica, Mr. Markovanovic, I'm sorry you didn't make it to the word, report on that show last night. For twenty years, I've done my job honorably in the field, for four years I've been head of high school, and now I'm acting third term, from 2000 to today, and my second term as mayor has just expired. I'd like to tell you that I'm not a single mother by chance, that I have a sea captain's husband who's been on board for 40, 35 years, 25 years, and he's a commanding officer, captain of long sailing, for the last six years, the captain of the cruise company, captain of the cruise team. Therefore, you can enter and I am sorry that there is no Mr. Jovanovic here and I ask him for an apology to look at my property card since 2002 when we were obliged here in the Assembly to show the property card to this day, to combine the property situation of my and my husband and then my daughter's underage, today already lawyers and not to speak on a flat-rate basis in front of the entire Croatian public. It's an example of making up an affair and I'm asking you, I'm sorry, Mr. Markovanovic, so I'm talking to you, because you didn't have enough likely arguments or chances on that show to come up with a word, but I'm not going to let my name, my family on this get involved in a possible affair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34439	Thank you. Replication response, Mr. Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34440	Well, my dear fellow, this is more proof that affairs are easily invented, that people are muddy. We are witnesses, here I have been here in the Croatian Parliament for five and a half years I have witnessed how people are easily muddled and how double criteria are applied. Why do I mention, let's get angry with our colleagues and colleagues, Racan's government? Because the same case with the purchase of the vehicle was a year ago. The exact same case, only with significantly more money and a significantly larger volume. But then it doesn't matter, that's it. And as for the Commission's own decision on conflict of interest, we're not comparing the card there before, the card after, but we insist that the cards be published. It is, however, the political decision of the electorate to decide whether or not it will decide. But this story today is the best way to do it when you don't win the election, so go. First South America is still a little far away so that their system can use their way, then let's invent affairs. It is certain that part of the voter's vote the SDP received by making this up, because a hundred times the repeated lie becomes true. I'm not talking ten times, I'm telling a hundred times a lie. So it's already funny how really some people repeat the same lie over and over and over again I don't know who, that I don't know who or that I don't know what I don't know, and I'm extremely glad that we're going to clear this up together, because yet all those who listen, look, watch, say yes, next time they agree, they're going to say neither the first nor the last time, they're going to lie all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34441	Replica, Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34442	Thank you, Mr. President. In part, you claimed exactly that Mr. Markovanovic was the same purchase of fire trucks or military trucks, but that's only one part true because obviously the type of procedure was similar. But it's not the same because it's fire trucks, and this is about military vehicles that need to have some assumptions that are in the interest of the military above all, which are related to some protected data, etc. So it's not the same procedure, but there was probably a significant difference in money. It certainly was a much, much bigger amount for those 230 tanks than it was for these trucks. And you've determined exactly that it's not about 76 trucks. And just today, the Croatian public has had the opportunity to see how they manipulate untrues in the Croatian Parliament when SDP's representative said so read it in this document on the establishment of an investigative commission. It is precisely a proposal for the establishment of this investigation committee, which mentions 76 trucks, that the SDP had invented that figure, because the actual figure was in the first case somewhere around 40th, and later it was 30th and something. So, the SDP manipulates the public today by showing the document that he himself proposed as a credible document, not taking into account what was really in the documentation in the MORH and everything that was done in the MORH related to that documentation. And this is today the best proof of how to manipulate untrues, here in front of the Croatian public in the Croatian Parliament, thus pointing out the document that they themselves have proposed without any argument. The other thing, they're talking about Slovenia. Of course, today the situation has been a betrayal of national interests or an attempt to betray national interests by handing over part of the territory, Croatian territory. It's about miles of square Croatian territory that someone wanted to give to another country. Of course, this is, unfortunately, still burdening these relationships today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34443	Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34444	Why? Because that other side thinks it can possibly win it but in some other way.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34445	Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34446	It certainly burdens those relationships.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34447	Answer, Mr. Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34448	Although, my colleague, it's the worst thing to do when someone promises something and doesn't keep their promise, I have to admit it. Well, fortunately, it was canceled by a later deal, but you can now convince someone that that's the case. It is true that military vehicles and fire trucks are not the same. And I don't mind the fact that the firemen got expensive vehicles, the most expensive ones, we were getting our firemen locals a couple of cars, so I know which are the most expensive, so the most expensive and possibly the best-quality vehicles that have been bought, it's fine. But then why do the army need the cheapest trucks? Why they need the cheapest, no matter what. Be careful, if the headquarters hadn't written this, that he didn't ask them to be Iveco and Mercedes, but anything, so for the army, it's good for anything. Well, the defence power of the state can be any, at least that's the least important, and we'll tell each other stories further. As for the others who should be involved here, it is true that people need to get involved a little more, and even in Mrs. Vesna Balenović's crew that so reluctantly mentions this team on my right here because it is best known to whistlers in any case, because it has discovered crime in the INA, it has discovered all those loaves that have been going on there, thieves and theft, it has been fired, but not at this time, gentlemen, it was in your time. So you've actually interrupted her, whistleing, you've interrupted the discovery of crime still in such a brutal way that it will clear your head because the team gathering around Mrs. Balenović will surely very, very hard to fight precisely to get the truth out anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34449	Replica Mr. Ivan Bagaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34450	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Markovinović, after your presentation with which I fully agree and after what I heard from my SDP colleagues, I can indeed conclude, and I believe the public, that those who actually encourage the discussion of these affairs do not care at all to resolve them. Indeed, I believe that those who have caused these affairs do not care at all to resolve themselves. Why? Well, because it always ends with pure politics starting with what my colleague Shuica was talking about because I saw that show last night. Because it is sad, really sad and incomprehensible that a man who runs a very important commission and who should take care to prevent affairs, not to happen, or that corruption is not happening, and that it is being put into effect, that everything is reduced to that level is approximately responsible for Prime Minister Sanader and the Government. I wouldn't be surprised if such a conclusion were to say that it was some kind of earthquake, earthquake or I don't know what was also caused by the government's policy or now a weather accident or something. So it just turns out that the ones who should get to it the most and we're all here like these don't really care about getting rid of it. On the other hand, there's really a lot of damage going on after this sort of thing. The damage is within Croatia, the damage is outside. So now everyone's calling themselves as they say outside corruption is a problem. Well, they have to say that the problem is corruption, but that we've been dealing with fictitious corruption for so long. Well, as they'd say, no, there's no corruption there. On the other hand, we're disrupting, I don't know, some kind of normal communication, a culture of communication like this. We're polluting the entire area. And this is my colleague Markovanovic, and with that I conclude, more and more looks like one, I don't know whose. I think it's a Chinese or Indian proverb that says when someone says, here's not going to say who, they say otherwise who that someone throws in a well then it's not 100, not 1,000, and I don't know how many wise men they can't take out. So here's about what I think he can come down to in this affair on that decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34451	Mr. Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34452	Well, it is certainly true that what Mrs. Shuica has experienced, therefore colleague Dubravka, will surely leave clues, surely in her life, and therefore here we can call finally and let the public turn on the Internet a little bit, let her look at one and the other card, so she will see that Mr. Jovanovic, who has just set himself up in a much higher position than we have chosen him for corruption, so he became an alpha and omega of corruption. So he lies facelessly and it's a tragedy in all this. Therefore, lying about the card of the latter and the previous can be very easy to prove. And I'm glad, actually every SDP lie is finally going on is really better for us. I must also say, since we're doing marketing, that you've made an extraordinary marketing to Mayor Djakov, who has proven to have stolen the Assembly's cash register, so he was elected in the first round. Well done!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34453	Thank you. Like this. The faceless lying isn't a term that is, it's not that term for the Parliament and let's avoid being drastically so to say, if you can do that in any way. ... No, it's worse when you do the same thing in front of the TV. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] But I also condemn the use of such, not actually condemn, but beg you to ease it. It doesn't make sense, and there are some who also take the word for it, and they seem to forgive themselves, but they won't forgive others. Okay. I suggest, we have six more minutes for Mr. Krešimir Cosic to finish his debate and we'll go look for something at the restaurant. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34454	Here's the esteemed Mr. President, allow those six minutes. I'd say at the beginning of the next. We have often listened to a strong statement in the Croatian public in recent years and some Croatian institutions are doing their job. It is an important finding from the highest political summit in the Croatian state and the Croatian Parliament has done everything to ensure that this really happens unanimously with 114 votes made a decision on the appointment of this Research Commission. It is the common interest of all representatives in the Croatian Parliament. In order for the institutions of this country to be able to carry out their work, certain assumptions should also be met. I would like to say political tolerance, we need appropriate political ethics versus political terrorism, which unfortunately we see more and more and which is unacceptable because it is definitely counterproductive and endangers the confidence of Croatian citizens in Croatian parliamentary democracy, in Croatian politics. And let the institutions do their job. It is an important message and to hear the answer, the response of the Croatian institutions that made for this case by the competent institutions. First of all, the State Audit is in line with high standards that respect all the auditors of the State Audit. So, what they said and what the state institutions say. Ms. Šima Krasic, chief state auditor, quotes: “With full responsibility I claim that in the work of the State Audit Office in the audit and business of the ministry and the preparation of the report there were no irregularities and failures. It's the position of the institutions of this state. The institution most called upon to give its professional, professional, objective opinion in accordance with the high standards that it has so far respected in its work, and this work has been recognised and respected by the Croatian Parliament over the past ten and many years. And that's a fact. State audit is an expert body that checks the business of state authorities and the spending of public funds and reports the Croatian Parliament as the most important representative and legislative body. Such a role and mode of work have almost all state audits in parliamentary democracies. And now that's the key question. If that's what a state-run review does, why does that same job have to be done by the Chief Inspector? Why should the Chief Inspector do so if we have a competent institution to do so? We've been brought by the inspector-in-chief to the situation that we need to arbitration. Who in this country is in charge of this kind of state audit business? It's just the State Audit. However, the chief inspector authorised himself and made one ad hoc arbitration, an inappropriate institution of the chief inspector and did a job that did not contribute to the affirmation of the state's institutions. It's an important lesson learned. The chief inspectorate with the work and the way he conducted it did not contribute to the affirmation of state institutions. This should also be established and accordingly appropriate decisions should be taken. The audit shall be carried out by authorised state auditors, professional, independent, independent of work. Their standards are being checked when we talked to the Chief Inspector, then I didn't ask for no reason what accreditations the inspectors of the Chief Inspectorate have? They don't have them. But these inspectors have managed to make one such improvised ad hoc report that triggered this whole affair and therefore the report deserves, I would say a little more attention because it goes away from all that is appropriate to the professional institutions of a modern state. Next, what do the institutions say? The witness statement of Chief Director of Police, Mr. Vladimir Faber, quotes, "no reasonable doubt has been established that we have reached the level of reasonable doubt. If any person had committed a crime, they would have opted for a form of criminal application, not a general report to the State's Attorney's office." And they were competent institutions for this case. However, contrary to these institutions, the Chief Inspector appears and declares himself competent and draws conclusions and makes a report that has triggered this whole affair. In his report of 31 May 2005, the chief inspector wrote that we had all the documents available and that if we had them, we might have made different conclusions. The Chief Inspector, and especially he's a general, never brings such judgments. It could be like this, it could be like that. For this reason, I personally asked the Chief Inspector if anyone had ever disputed his access to the documents. The Chief Inspector clearly answered no, no one could deny me the documents. But it didn't bother the Chief Inspector to make a report of such a character. What are the main messages of this report? In its report, the Chief Inspector compares the offer with the lowest price applicable to vehicles which do not satisfy any of the required conditions, which did not have tactical and technical characteristics and which, in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, had to be automatically excluded from any analysis, from any comparisons and should not be subject to discussion. However, this did not interfere with the Chief Inspector, and he did a comparative analysis that was contrary to all the standards and all the criteria of the Public Procurement Act. His conclusion is clear, the state budget is damaged by 14 million 830 thousand kuna. It's improvisation, it's manipulation that doesn't meet good standards and proper criteria in doing its job. The conclusion that complete documentation was not available in surveillance would remove many ambiguities and make different conclusions. The Chief Inspectorate has made an unauthorized report for which he was not in charge, has declared himself competent with people who have not been qualified for it and thus in some way warns that an affair of trucks has taken place. The inspection supervision of the Chief Inspector is unfortunately, can be qualified as a purely political pamphlet that had its signatories, but more importantly, he had to have his own employer because the Chief Inspector would certainly not have made such a report and would not have decided on such a type of work if he had not received some political instruction. And let institutions do their jobs, it's an important message, a job done by the Chief Inspectorate is an example of how institutions shouldn't do their jobs. I think it's one of the important conclusions. In search of the ultimate truth, the question arises, how did the affair of trucks arise? Who is the person X who gave the chief inspector the assignment to go on such a political adventure? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34455	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Boris Shmrem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34456	Thank you very much, Mr. President. counterpart Ćosic, you said that Mr. General Milicevic made a clean political pamphlet with an unnamed employer when doing his job. Look, Mr. Roncevic as former defence minister at the time never stopped that pure political pamphlet of yours. The job was done by General Milicevic, made a report, Mr Roncevic boasted that he had not been removed as we heard today. Well, I'd do anything as defence minister to change, if I can't, but someone else, but I think the minister was in charge of it, a man doing these kinds of jobs. So, political pamphlets, illegally doing their job, etc. I'd do anything to relieve him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34457	Thank you. We'll interrupt the session now, continue at 3:00. The first is Mr. Nenad Stazic in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34458	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue the session and discuss the report of the Bureau of Investigation. Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34459	Thank you very much. Do Parliament's investigative committees make any sense? And if they do, what can it be like to know the ratio in these committees in advance and to know from that perspective what the conclusions of this commission will be? When it is known in advance that the majority who investigates the possible corruption of one member will do everything in its power to protect that member. Does the parliamentary investigation committees make sense? The answer to that question may be that we can find the answer when it is established. As a rule, a parliamentary commission is established when national authorities do not act. This is a classic case. For four years, it has been since the events that the Committee examined this without the State's Attorney's office doing anything in those four years. It didn't do anything either in terms of public speaking and saying, that we've investigated the case, there's no crime or corruption in it, or that we've examined the case and we're processing it. It's just that for four years, the State's Attorney's office hasn't heard back from him. When, though, did it turn up? Only when former Minister Roncevic was removed from his post as interior minister. It was only then that the State's Attorney's Office applied to the police to launch reconnaissances and operations, as it is said in the police jargon. The State's Attorney's Office thus shows that it did not seek, does not seek, and is unlikely to ask for any investigation if it is high-ranking state officials. It's obviously the principle of state's attorney's behaviour. They will go only after and when these officials differ with the party they come from. The proof of that is the case of the Head. He was a visionary for the prime minister, and an investigation into his actions in the war was launched only after he broke up with HDZ. It was a signal to the State's Attorney's office to go after him. Prior to that, it did not occur to the state attorney to question Branimir Glavas' actions, although there were sufficient indications and warnings in the public that the most serious crime could be committed. Okay, did this commission make any sense? Yes, it is. If it hadn't been established, the public would never have known, for example. the fact that the State Auditor was misleading the Croatian Parliament. The state audit sent a brief report to the Croatian Parliament saying everything was fine. That long report was never seen by the MPs. The long-term report, which also says that then Minister Roncevic did not justify anything as to why he believed that the Eurocampion had made the most favourable offer, would not have received an investigative commission, even though it requested a state audit report. We also learned about him as members of the Committee and as parliamentary representatives from the newspapers. Only when, from somewhere in the media, I don't know where she leaked the information that there was an extended report, was it then that the State Auditor sent this extended report to the Investigative Commission. Did this commission make sense? I think he did because he discovered the size of the game. Chief of Staff, General Lucic wrote to the President of the Republic and his commander-in-chief in 2005. The letter begins with the words: under a lot of material, moral, and criminal responsibility hard. And then, among other things, the acquisition of these trucks wasn't the priority of the headquarters or the MORH. In front of the investigative committee, the same General Lucic faces that letter says I wrote it in effect. The Chief of Staff is acting as the first adviser to the President of the Republic in matters of defence of the country. The Chief of Staff, who advises the President of the Republic to use the military on matters of war and peace, declares that he has deceived the President of the Republic and that he has done so in effect. A man who makes large decisions in an effect should first prevent himself from carrying at all a weapon because if he responds to an effect, he may be dangerous if he is armed, let alone be chief of staff and therefore a chief adviser in matters of defence of the President of the Republic. Well, if this investigation committee hadn't been established, then the public would never know what kind of chief of staff he's got. And even the President of the Republic would probably never know that the Chief of Staff deceived him by his own confession. Did this commission make sense? It did. It revealed, among other things, the fear of the ruling of revealing the truth. The proof of that is Mr. Faber's shift. Why was Faber removed? We haven't heard the explanation. Neither did the prime minister, nor did the interior minister, nor did Faber. The media says this affair, the affair, is a reason or at least one of the important reasons for that shift. Faber insisted that the case be brought to an end so that the investigative actions would be completed and these last two skills would be entered into the file. How dangerous it would be for the ruling Faber... and promoted. Now he is no longer the first cop to not answer to the prime minister but only the law must work under the law, but now he has become a politician who has his boss who is the minister and the boss above him, which is his prime minister and thus neutralised. Because this commission made sense? Yes, it is. It's been discovered, for example. and HDZ's relationship with the Croatian Army General without a spot on conscience and career. His testimony hid in front of the public. Although it had the same approval as General Lucic. It was not for the ruling to listen to what the general without a stain on his career was saying. So it tried to hide from the public. Because this commission made sense? Yes, it is. Because today you can see in this debate how the interests of the ruling structure are being defended. How abuse is the right majority with the the thesis that more hands means and the right to the truth, as if truth ladies and gentlemen depend on the number of hands. It's as if the truth doesn't depend on the arguments that have been made, on facts that shouldn't be defended, because the facts defend themselves, those lawyers don't need them. And the fact above all the facts is that for the same money, half the car was purchased. From what could be purchased according to the collected offers. That truth no number of hands can deny or change or bring down. What is the message of the HDZ parliamentary majority sent to citizens? While we are in power, while we have a majority in the Parliament, as we decide who will be the head of state's auditor, while we decide who will be head of the state's attorney's office, while we decide who will be the head of police, we will do what we want and how we will. Well, then we'll set up an investigative committee where we can re-establish most of the votes that everything is fine. Did the commission make sense? I think so. Because no matter what conclusions will be accepted, I am convinced that the time will pass when the State Review deceives MPs to cover up corruption. The time will pass when the Chief of Staff publicly admits to cheating on the Commander-in-chief, will pass when the Chief Defence Inspector moves from inspection jobs because he reveals corruption. The time will pass to replace the Director of Police because he insists that the investigation be conducted to the end. When that time comes, there will be a full truth about this elder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34460	Heidegger says the facts aren't for themselves or for themselves. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34461	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here in the whole series again, again incorrect allegations, the first one is that the state auditor was misleading the Parliament. I'm sorry Mr. Stazic doesn't know how to work the State Audit, to actually write three reports, not one report. And that the first report is given to the subject of the audit, regardless of because it is a municipality, a city, a ministry and someone else, after the obvious report is coordinated, and in our Rules of Procedure the report goes short. Therefore, there is no way to deceive anything. Second. It is false that there is fear of the ruling truth. However, it makes sense for this commission because we're going to get to the truth, and that truth is actually going to go extremely to your harm because it's going to prove that you've actually invented the whole affair.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34462	Replica, Mr. Representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34463	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. You have every right when you're in a dilemma whether this commission made sense or not. You claim to be. I'll say it really didn't make sense when we got the result and that we'd get knew in advance. I'm just going to say a few of my lines that I wrote listening to today's debate. One of the sentences says this way, that the chief military inspector says, we claim that not all documents were available to him. But he was also illegally inspecting. So he found something wrong, but it was one illegal way. It means whether it's the same thing to be transmitted or referred to as the Chief Director of Police who may also have not had all the documents and perhaps even he's been illegally investigating. Or he told headquarters that the technical characteristics of some do not satisfy. Is it appropriate then that the headquarters also said that the second secretary of defense buys two used ships military buys them, did the headquarters say those characteristics I want? When our headquarters is an excuse. And in the end, it remains a bitter taste for this commission and that we are not through to the end of these investigations, at least we haven't decided in public until the end whether something was illegal or not illegal? At the end of the claim, there was no damage to the budget. I can agree that this is a good claim, that the budget is not damaged. But still, it remains a bitter taste that the truck is less for the same money. For example, instead of 76, there are 39 of them now, which would be if they were 35 or 30 for the same money, the same budget wouldn't be damaged, but the truck would be less. The damage was obviously done somewhere, but obviously there is no good will nor to make it clear to the end, but this debate has made it even more complicated and it is in some way pressure on the former minister that he may be guilty, perhaps not guilty. It's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34464	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34465	I've been standing on the stand since the beginning that this is a struggle for the public. In front of the public, one group wants to hide something, another group wants to find out. The ones who want to find out are accused of making up affairs. And those who claim the affair isn't because it doesn't bother to put everything under the carpet. It made sense, you mentioned the Chief Defence Inspector. It made sense for this commission to reveal HDZ's relationship to General Milicevic. They were rudely insulting him, telling him he didn't know the laws, that he was working against the law, that he was unprofessional, that he was lying, that he was making things up, that he was getting revenge. They insulted him like I've never heard anyone insult me. What a quality of the Homeland War, what generals, defense of the honor of the general. As honorable as it is in war, and as honorable as it is in life, if it touches the interests of HDZ, it will crush it, it will destroy it. And this has shown this commission what the HDZ's attitude towards honorable people is towards the generals of the Croatian Army. You know, Europe keeps warning us to break that corruption. Let's break it when it comes to state officials. It won't be done. And that commission revealed that fact too. Between Europe and corruption HDZ chooses corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34466	Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34467	The Commission's report opens two different sets of topics, conclusions. One is unfortunately about the commission itself. Unfortunately, because it turns out, this also shows a good part of this debate that the work of the Investigative Commission has shown all the infirmities of the investigating committee institution despite the law that exists and which regulates this issue, so the good part of this discussion refers to the commission rather than its findings. It seems to me that this is one of the intensities of the ruling coalition colleagues so as not to actually talk about the measure of things, but about how the commission, or first of all, functioned by leading him. But since that is the case, it should be said that the commission worked under very difficult conditions. I can tell you that the government's department has been pulling our noses. Namely, we asked for one document, we got another. It's been a waste of time, it's been difficult, and it's been hard to see if you want to, and for example, the Chief Defence Inspectorate that we asked for one report and we got another report, and it's been lost until that real document was obtained to access the witness hearing. An even more eclectic example is the behaviour of the State Audit, which we asked for an explicit State Audit report on this case. So we did not ask for a State Audit report on the audit carried out at the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia for that year, but on this case. So we didn't have to deliver a document in which this case is only mentioned in one sentence and in a positive context because it's summed up so-called. an instant document to be delivered to the Assembly. If it hadn't been for the public, if it hadn't been for the media, we would never have known there were three different levels of reporting when it came to the State Audit. One is integral that contains all documents and all results. The second one is expanded, which is given if necessary. And the third is an instant variant that comes to the benches of parliamentary deputies. The German answers by the main state auditor, who at one point even found, I guess at the moment of her weakness that in this case it was clear that there may have been a violation of the law and on the other hand persistently trying to withdraw to other topics, so the non-response of measurement issues showed that the State audit in this case was very nervous because it turned out that it had not been comparatively comparing the documents of the first and second public procurement procedures but only by focusing solely on the documents so-called. a direct guess, and even dared to argue some conclusions before it received evidence that the programme was implemented which the minister had called for and was not implemented at all in the Ministry of Economy, but only next year in his report, the State Audit said that part of the contract had been implemented and according to the specific programme by which suppliers must provide a part of their products and services from the domestic market. We haven't seen any evidence of that. Furthermore, the testimony of General Joza Milicevic in many ways is very important for this case because man has made it clear and loud that he is ready to testify before the entire Croatian public and that there is no problem with the fact that the defence minister has practically committed him to public silence but only allowed him to speak to the committee so that he does not come into a position or danger to reveal so-called. It's a personal secret. General Milicevic said I don't have any personal secrets, and when it comes to the state interest, I can't even have it. The testimony was closed to the public, very badly sought but the transcript of that testimony was a public document, the media published it, we have it on benches and who wants to see that it is not true, that it is not true that man worked past the law because he called for documents that had previously been operational documents in the defence system and that is primarily the plan of work but also the General Inspectorate's Regulation. This Regulation in point 19 of the Exclusion states that the work of the Defence Inspectorate is, among other things, the supervision of the public procurement system and it is known that, in the overall defence system, the commanding of units, institutions and civil components, public procurement is carried out only and exclusively in the Ministry of Defence. But what you're running from here are the explicit allegations so the inspector who says that he wasn't the one who personally carried out the inspection because it was a team of five, a team led by a man in charge of civilian surveillance precisely because it was the supervision of the ministry as a civilian component, and these are the people who, look at the coincidences a year earlier, so some of these five people were employees of the Department of Public Procurement at the Ministry of Defence. So the people who did the inspection went really where they already knew they could expect certain irregularities. They only caught up with those cases that weren't complete, only for those cases where there wasn't enough documentation of the contract, probably documentation of the takeover and everything else that was supposed to be. And this is one of the equative examples. So they came up with a case where the paperwork wasn't complete because there was no contract and there weren't all those documents that were supposed to be there. And they asked for that paperwork to be delivered. And the testimony of General Milicevic. It is clear as a day that several times, on several occasions and in several different ways, he demanded to be provided with documentation that was not completed in order to conclude the report. He was told there was nothing to get involved with because the military police had already examined it. He was told that he had nothing to do with the case being hired because it was already settled. It says, it says, I quote his words. He begged the minister to complete it, of course the minister wouldn't give it to him. A worker who was sent from the chief inspectorate for the documentation she had been promised came back crying and after this case none of these people who worked there stayed in place. This is the case where the crisis of the institution and the Commission of Investigation is manifested in our Parliament, the time to look ourselves in the eye and to say whether this institution can perform more of the functions that we have defined by law if it is possible for such examples to happen and to prevent the Investigative Commission from carrying out its own task, because it has proved that in a case like this, it is clear as a day, which also has political connotations, which also has connotations important to our approach to the European Union, because it is talking about corruption, or possible corruption, therefore, that these cases can be manipulated, that it is possible to block the work of the Research Commission, delay, disable its work. Furthermore, no single corruption affair that has been related to the Croatian Democratic Community in the past five years has received its judicial epilogue. No one was ever brought to the end to finally be seen with clear evidence that it had nothing to do with it, that it was a hollow story or that it was something or that someone had to answer. It leaves a bitter taste in the public, actually taste of the impotence of the public and kills the will of all those who would participate, which within this anti-corruption plan we have might be able to help reduce the scope of corruption. Because what happened? Robert Matijević was kicked out of work, the newspaper Hrvoje Appelt lost his job, journalist Natasa Škaričić lost her job, General Jozo Milicevic was removed from his post. So whoever hired in a way to help the public find out something more is out of a job. These are messages that are not good, because they demoralise the entire Croatian public, but it is certain that the public is also concerned with what is happening in these and similar cases. And Mrs. Shuica, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34468	Thank you. Three corrections, two replicas. First Mr. Representative Berislav Roncevic. First.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34469	From all this exposure, the only thing that shouldn't be fixed is that this is a hollow story. That's the only thing that a colleague has said. But for a short period of time, only two things related to supervision and inspection powers. It is incorrect for a fellow to be supplied at the Ministry of Defence to work only in the administrative section, in the civilian part of the MORH. There is a dislocated supply because it requires the nature of the job, a large number of troops in the field, rationality and functioning, and the procurement of armed forces, meaning Armed Forces. And that's what the Defense Act predicted. That inspector can go into public procurement control. Not in that part. Therefore, not only is it done here, but it can also be carried out in the Armed Forces and there is the authority of the defence inspector to carry out surveillance, not in the administrative part of the sea. And it's completely incorrect that it was some sort of general surveillance, this is targeted surveillance. He even has the name, subject, inspection control of the non-combat motor vehicle procedure in his report. This surveillance was ordered, General Milicevic was sent to that surveillance, targeted, no plan, because his plan was not approved. So this is about a surveillance reference, this is about a surveillance reference, this is about a reference to a purpose, show that it was illegal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34470	Second correction, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34471	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here we go again, listening to the same stories, so the same lies. Well, the authorities dragged us by the nose, that's not true. The departments could have knocked out all the documents, it's been four years, it's been four years, it's been four years, it's been keeping a level of secrecy, it's been five years. We got everything from first to last document. So I think that's definitely the first lie. Another lie, another state audit. I don't understand what your goal is to defile the state's audit when the state's audit was done in accordance with the law. So let's get people interested, if you've never had anything to do with the state audit in your life, then at least ask how it works. So, no blurry, no blurry, it's true. Next, he says, stalling the work of the state, this, commission. The delay in the commission's work, it's not true. You wanted to stall him when you got the last document and you realized there was nothing left and then let's face it, let's go to America for the general. First the general was sent to America not to testify, and then he testified, and then he wasn't sent to America for punishment. So then the third variant becomes not to testify again, but people you've been doing the circus yourself. The general went to America... money that wasn't at first moment, not to testify or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you wanted to stall, let's all go to America together and hear General Milicevic. I'm sorry we didn't accept that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34472	Thank you. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić, third correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34473	I thank Mr. President, Vice President, it is incorrect for the ruling to obstruct the work of the commission, to prevent the work of that commission. That's incorrect, it's simply not true because the ruling insists on doing business in the Rules of Procedure. But the fact is that your representatives wanted to work past the Rules of Procedure and beyond the rules that apply to all the committees and so on for this Commission of Investigation. So it's absolutely incorrect that there was obstruction by the ruling ones, and besides, that showed their report to those who are the majority. And you need to respect the majority, regardless of because it's the foundation of democracy, respect for the majority. Most have the right to bring what is in her jurisdiction, just as those who are in the minority have the right to propose and whether they will be adopted, that is another thing, but that is the basis, the procedure is the basis of democracy. So if most people thought of it as what they thought, then let them think and express it, and not because you wanted to shape it in a different way, so nobody's right, but you're right. Let's take a look at democratic standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34474	Replica, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34475	Comrade Richembergh, you were talking about controlling this supply. We've all seen the annual plan that provides for surveillance of the purchase. We all saw him. According to that annual plan, he was made. When completed, according to General Milicevic, he presented him to Minister Roncevic. Minister Roncevic didn't say so well, man, what the hell did you do when you didn't have the legal authority to go on surveillance. He didn't warn him until the surveillance was done, so why are you doing surveillance when you don't have the legal authority to do surveillance, but he was trying to keep all his powers from being done in a way that you didn't give him the documents he asked for. But when the surveillance was over and it was seen what he was like, then the fact that surveillance was illegal was invented. You were also talking about obstruction in the commission. Here's Matušić says it's not true that most have obstructed the commission. I ask you, fellow Richembergh, when we asked Roncevic and Milicevic to face each other, when we asked them to stop each other and Roncevic to tell Milicevic it was not true that I ordered you to change this report, then they refused. So now I ask you, colleague Richembergh, what is obstruction and who is obstructing it? ... Is he who seeks this confrontation and who seeks to establish who was telling the lie, Roncevic or Milicevic or he who prevents it, while Matušić defends it. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34476	Mr. Miljenko Doric. You're right, you just have to show that you want a replica. ... Okay, we'll... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34477	A colleague, not only that, but General Milicevic explicate says: "After the signed orders issued on the basis of the annual plan, I called the assistant minister, Mr. Bačić, and informed him that it is in accordance with our annual plan to go under surveillance. He agreed. He said he knew and we left. We came to Mrs. Oydana Zuzul, who was the head of the contract and procurement service. Ms. Zuzul received my associates, everything that was sought by our previous memo made it possible for them to see and carry out their insights and they began their work. After that, Mr. Kozlica left the inspectors to work and went on to do the tasks he was supposed to do, and operationally to work, Colonel Radmilo Jasa took over. Since it is a very large number of documents we have agreed to go into surveillance and to apply the method of random cause in this surveillance." So it's true that they came on the annual plan, that they came on the basis of orders, that the assistant minister who probably informed the minister was aware that the main inspection was coming, that he had no objection, even though he had instructed the service responsible for collecting documents to collect it. The documents have been collected. As there were too many public procurement procedures, it was agreed to go through a random sample method and only in cases where the files were not completed. And that's what it says here, and no one has ever denied us by claiming or proving otherwise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34478	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34479	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I, my colleague Beus, greatly appreciate your attitude and the attitude of fellow Stazic, who spoke before you, but I must say that I am no longer at all certain that the investigative committees we set up in the Assembly make any sense. In fact, we always come to at least two truths, always these truths are related to political parties, which is not good, very unhealthy. We always come to the fact that different state institutions have different attitudes, inspectorates, audits. We always come to the fact that there is no order, coordination, and hierarchy in our country. Interestingly, when we set up the commission, all HDZ colleagues warned us that it was about getting more quality trucks that cost so much and so much and that's logical. It is interesting, however, that only one Milicevic, one of the presidents of the Republic as commander-in-chief, knows nothing about it, is regrettable. Therefore, we, colleagues, have to change a lot in this country in order to make sense at all to go to the commission, because the purpose of the commission, colleagues, is to establish the truth, not the majority's position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34480	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34481	Comrade Doric, I completely agree with you. In fact, if this were a case where there was absolutely nothing controversial then the defence minister, Mr Roncevic, would have insisted that the first time there was any speculation in public, regardless of whether they came from the mouth of the President of the Republic or the media, would have insisted that every detail of this work be made public, since it turned out that there were no military secrets. After all, he, however, published a very short version on the website, and even the chief inspector had to download the data from the website because the minister did not allow the chief defence inspector to deliver the documentation he needed. But it is regrettable and true, this institution of the Investigative Commission is in deep crisis and I fear that the Croatian Parliament will no longer be able to determine anything through it because it becomes a polygon in which most can dictate the truth, not facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34482	Mr. Representative Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34483	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Before the debate for lunch, Opačić, a lunch break, a colleague, Opačić, said in her debate that the meaning of the law should be that we should all be equal. That's what I stand for and that's what I want when we talk about this case. I'd like to see behind me and my associates working on this case, which I've been contesting for four and a half years, as well as for all the other citizens, the suspicion of innocence. However, I am aware that as an official, I will not experience that I cannot enjoy this grace in relation to other citizens, but we are still under public scrutiny. But still, if I am right now as a parliamentary representative, I expect to be treated just as much as my colleague Antunovic, as well as my colleague Bauk, also a parliamentary representative. Why do I mention the two of them? Because they co-worker Antunovic, based on the same law of the Public Procurement Act, the Law on Remonting, Transport and Production of Arms and Military Equipment, agreed to remont MiG-21 in Romania without any invitation to tender, but based on the same legal article. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on public procurement, supply of goods and goods and military equipment services, for the purposes of the Armed Forces contracted by direct contract and no one in this country said and polimised whether the state budget could be damaged here. Was that the most favourable option? We'll never know. You know what my colleagues are for? Because we have nothing to compare to. There was no previous procedure either. I never said it was against the law. It's based on the Public Procurement Act. Or why do I have the right to be in the same position as my colleague Bauk? He was not shown to a criminal, and he was the assistant defence minister when 5600 rockets were pulled from the Ministry of Defence on the regents of Djuro Djakovic's toolbox Slavonski Brod resold in Macedonia. The money was never paid to the MORH, no rockets were ever returned. THE BOOK estimated that it was about 14 million kunas. No one put a colleague on the front page, so I'll show you how you know my face like that bloody criminal who in an armed robbery kidnaps something with the title damaged the state for 10 million kuna. I didn't damage her, nor did I damage my associates, nor did I damage her for a single kuna. And for the past four and a half years, no one in this country has said what illegality is in the process and the contract and the contract related to the purchase of these trucks. But let's remind ourselves how it came to be. It came about because one of the centers of power said I have solid evidence of a crime in the morh, solid evidence of a crime in the morh, without having previously seen any paper in this file. The commission, at least the members of the commission, had a chance to see what file it was, how long the procedure took, and how many documents this file had to look at. No one has said in this contract, in this procedure the law in that and that article was violated. No, no one's said that before. None of the measuring bodies and it is entirely incorrect that they have not been reported and the President of the Republic, by my letter of 24 January, received information on the movement of this file, on the reasons for the conclusion of the contract as concluded and under what conditions. Did he like the answer I sent him, obviously not? However, attitudes are constantly highlighted, some of the more difficult are being imposed here. There's money, so there's no money. It's unclear how one day we have money, we don't have money. Then let the participants know we don't have any, and tomorrow we do. Well, this isn't about gentlemen buying in retail, coming to a shopping mall, looking at the retail price that's highlighted either on the product or below the product and knowing how much money you need. Well, there's been an invitation competition to objectify the price. No offer as it was made, according to the way the tender was made, all and one bid, so that the offer for the trucks MAN met the technical characteristics of its amount would exceed the budgetary position. And that is what the gentlemen dearly wanted or did not wish to acknowledge the mandatory application of the Public Procurement Act, in particular Article 64(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Public competition, the law does not state a public tender but the public competition must be annulled if the amount of the most favourable offer is passed by a plan or budget approved. It's not the discretionary right of the minister. There is no such possibility that this mind, signed by Milicevic, could have reduced the amount. Public bidding, call competition is a public competition. The law doesn't say yes. The law says seas. There's no Minister to discuss. It's just law enforcement. Following the first procedure that ended with the cancellation of the public tender and the notification of all the participants in the competition, the invitation to tender procedure was completed. None of the participants in the invitation to tender objected against the cancellation of the public competition, nor any of them. Not even one of those for whom this unfortunate inspection report says was the most favourable offer, not one of whom they had the right to do so. According to the Public Procurement Act, they were entitled to do so. No one's done it. What do you do then? The partnership goals of joining NATO. The funds were to be realised because in the following year, the main headquarters at the position of equipment and modernisation did not foresee the purchase of military trucks. The Commissioner, or Chief of the Force Planning Board, came. Croatia had 2 partner objectives of communication systems and water equipment, engineering water for horizontal structures. We had to show that we had agreed, that we would have a material means that the Croatian military would be able to achieve a partnership goal. We embraced the partnership goals ourselves. We embraced the partnership goals ourselves, our partnership goals were not imposed on us, and we had to meet our partnership goals. Now says USKOK on his, at least I read on the teletex, there's going to be an art class. I don't mind. I'm even convinced and I'm convinced by my associates who were working on preparing technical documentation that there's absolutely no reason to worry about the results of this art. Because the offer Milicevic explains as an offer cheaper for some 14 and a half million kunas by its technical characteristics did not meet the demands of the Ministry of Defence, did not meet the condition of the requested net loadability of trucks that the technical professions will know very well what it means. What's public procurement? Does the Public Procurement Act know the obligation in its provisions, knows and requires the obligation of the contracting authorities of goods and services to carry out public art, craftsmanship, court expert before making a decision? If we don't introduce some new standards. Whether any hospital directors before buying any machine, the medical apparatus must previously implement, seek the opinion of a court expert before making a decision. There's no such thing in the Public Procurement Act. But I'm not afraid of me or my associates who worked at the ministry of the results of this. What was the point of the commission? And I think it's done, I agree, Mr. Track with you, it's fulfilled the purpose. This commission gave us the opportunity to remove from these documents a code of secrecy so that for the first time I could speak openly about it and deny some of the things that circled through the media space. Like. Roncevic put a secret mark on this procurement to avoid a public tender. And you saw that an invitation competition was conducted and Roncevic wasn't putting a mark of secrecy, he was putting the main headquarters on his procurement requirements. I remind you gentlemen, this is about 2003, the beginning of 2004, when under the then Data Protection Act, it was not possible to execute and remove the classification, or mark of secrecy only the one who put it. Not the head of the body of the state administration who runs that body of the state administration, but the one who put the mark of secrecy. 76 trucks. Never did call competition contain 76 trucks. Don't keep doing it either on purpose or not to use any rougher terms. He's never been the subject of a 76 truck caller. 76 vehicles are a big difference between 76 trucks because there were a lot of personal vehicles that have kudicam a lower unit price than there is a truck. Who was chosen? The person who delivered the NATO certificate has been selected, the one who fulfilled the technical characteristics, and these are about trucks 2 bidders for the Iveco programme and for the Mercedes programme. Iveco was 17.5% cheaper, gentlemen. It's possible that someone doesn't like this choice. Maybe he had other expectations. However, absolutely and now I will repeat before this House that I am in such a situation again, that I have the same fact, that I have the same Public Procurement Act and that I need to achieve a partnership goal that will move at least half a metre towards NATO, I would make the same decision again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34484	Thank you. One correction, two replicas. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34485	First of all, no one accuses you of going straight to a direct contract, but we are wondering why you went to a direct contract with one of the most expensive bidders, and you could go to a direct contract and negotiate with those who offered a cheaper price. Second, you say no one complained. Well, no one could complain, and you and Hebrang would cheat on the public so that someone could complain. There's no appeal for a cancellation. There's only one choice when an offer is chosen. When the contest is cancelled, there's no appeal. That's your argument hollow, lame. It's where you defend something indefensible. You say the former government, former minister, Arsen Bauk. Well, you were the Home Secretary. So why didn't you start, initiate, start some investigations if you think it was a crime? Fourthly, Arsen Bauk was then an IT assistant, nothing to do with the purchase. Anyway, in a series of what you're trying to defend yourself is so much inaccuracy that it would take a whole debate of at least 10, 15 minutes to undo it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34486	Replica, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34487	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Roncevic, you've asked exactly why you can't be the same in front of the law as the other MPs here sitting in these benches. So you have rightly cited an example of former Defence Minister Antunovic, who, without a competition, has ordered a remonting, I think you said in Romania, although this would probably be cheaper in a country where they are produced, for example, in Russia. We don't know that now. For how much money she damaged with that move to the Croatian state. Just as we don't know, that is, you said somewhere around 14 million kunas that they didn't sit at the ministry's cash register for sale by a colleague named Bauk. So it really needs to be investigated. That question really needs to be explored. But it is right to ask why you act under the law because no one has said that you have not acted under the law, why such application of the law has not been disputed in other cases during the SDP-led government. For according to that same law they followed and obtained therefore and worked daily. And not to mention those other fire trucks, 230 fire trucks that were acquired in the same way as the same procedure, although in this case it was military funds and of course it was necessary to keep it secret, which was assessed by the Chief Staff, so not you, but the main headquarters that downloaded that designation of secrecy. Also, here we have already heard on several occasions this famous 76 truck number that is falsely placed from the ranks of the SDP and in their request to launch the Investigative Commission has written 76 trucks. It's the only place that's written 76 trucks. So, their request, SDP's demand for facts, they say quite the opposite. Facts coming from the MORH, facts that could have been established by the Investigative Commission that it was a significantly smaller number of trucks. So it's not 76 trucks like they keep saying it's not true, but it's a significantly smaller number, so 30 and some trucks.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34488	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34489	And probably because, colleague Matusic, this question has been politicized in the roughest and ugliest way. I didn't say, I'll do it again, I didn't say that my colleague Antunovic broke the law. In line with the Public Procurement Act, she did not do a previous call-competition procedure to get an objective price, to see who could do it, not her, but the ministry for her term, as I did, the ministry while I was a minister. But then it's all right, and getting a truck is untransparent, something inexplicable, and even here, and fellow Beus in his debate says you didn't deny it. I did. At a press conference on January 10th, 25 Croatian journalists, I guess, showed the course of the procedure, showed documents that we could show because some were under a code of secrecy and said what it was about. But does that truth want to be accepted, is that enough? Or we think that based on my thinking, my private thinking determines the illegality that my thoughts on the subject will determine whether it's a crime, whether it's a crime or not. However, what wonders is when in this Committee, the president of the commission invites General Milicevic 10 days before the Commission invites him to a separate meeting where he will be instructed to give what answers he will give, which I will ask him and why he should be surprised at this statement by General Milicevic. I'm not judging General Milicevic. He just didn't show military honor, unfortunately, he didn't resist those demands for that inspection, and for that kind of conversation, he was supposed to refuse as an officer, and before the committee to testify about what he had.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34490	Next replica. Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34491	Here's the esteemed Mr. Vice President. I thank Mr Rončević, who reminded us of a serious problem, an affair that has been in hiding for many years and has earned much more public media attention and much more debate in the Croatian Parliament, and it is about the famous MIG 21 remont in Romania. A direct contract without any parallel prices, without any orientation, was agreed to be made by order. By order of the centre of power then General Agotic. The implementation of the direct contract was attended by Mr Bauk, the defence minister and all without any echoes in the Croatian public. This only shows that there are double standards and that we are dealing here not with the fundamental problem of determining the truth, but we are dealing with the skills of who is in a position to impose and to what extent the Croatian public. We need to do everything we can to make an affair of the aircraft's remonting at no cost, no value of judgment, rather than in Russia or Israel in Romania. It's a subject that deserves really I'd say a lot more media attention. She's only a year older than the Trucks affair. Therefore, forgetting, concealment is part of the skill used as a method of political struggle. No more than that. And if that's the range of our political opposition, then we don't have to be surprised at everything we're facing today, unfortunately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34492	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34493	Thank you very much. Mr. Cosic here, in the roughest and most dirty way, came the duality of the criteria, the double standards. Some things we are willing to see benefactorly even praise, excellent work in Romania, and that the Croatian public will not know whether there may have been better variations. We won't know. From the center of power, here's what you have even more knowledge of, I came to the ministry afterwards. No one knows, there is no entry document under which circumstances, how, why, how the price of that remont was determined, but it was done. Those who advocate the truth here, fight corruption, so let's ask themselves a question, let's take a look at this case. We're not gonna say it's a crime. But for transparency. There is no expression that is more abused in Croatia than transparency. What does transparency mean in the acquisition of arms and military equipment? What does transparency mean? Do we really have to go to the details of what we're getting, what state we're in? Do we really have to bring to the absurdity that anyone who manages some kind of public finances is an aprior thief, and then let him work hard and let him take down that deposit that someone is forced on him in order to win the election, and in Croatia, thank God enough, one vote more.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34494	Thank you. Five minutes of debate. HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34495	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Today, there have been all sorts of opinions regarding the report on the work of the Research Commission on the determination of facts regarding the purchase of 39 military trucks. It has been said that there is a struggle for public opinion here today. For 4 years, it was enough for the public to gain their opinion, regardless of commission, investigation, opinion of trust, etc. Similarly, the public has an opinion on other affairs, so to speak of "Maester", a small, large one about "Index", about Split Shipyard, about Sunny Hvar, about the hall, the sports hall of Osijek, for which 843 million kunas were planned and requested, and no one is talking about it today. Here we have come to the trust of these trucks, but this is also the plan to spend 843 million kunas in Osijek, no one is talking about or establishing a commission. And these days we're listening to all the media that song that's sung by some composition, rock or pop don't even know me and says, "Corruption isn't me, it's not me, it's not me." Which encourages citizens to be whistles, to report every form of corruption. And here in this report of trust, I see that questions have been asked to honor General Joza Miličević, who he said here that he witnessed in an unholy manner, which is indeed saddening at least. To qualify as an honorary soldier and defender, a volunteer of the Homeland War, a man who reported when foreign statesmen came to Croatia in front of the presidents of the Republic, that is not the case. He's got a last name, too. ... Oh, right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The man, therefore the Major General, two are both honorable, both are honorable. So, the man who, according to his statements here in his report, is the man you really said would have been harassing with questions whether he had the right under the law to make an inspection or not? Which article, etc. And he was the Chief Inspector at the time. You see, therefore, citizens are asked to report corruption, and the chief inspector is denied the right to control the work. What are these contradictions here today in action? And I really don't know when the song "E that I love the smell of a truck" came out, but maybe it was created after 2004, maybe it has its own foothold. The citizens have their own opinions on this, and I think that this opinion is exactly the same as those of the affairs on which I am only, so only part of those affairs that I have cited that have happened and that are happening, which are the subject of USKOK and other court cases and other instances in the Republic of Croatia. We spoke here that the State Audit gave a positive opinion on the matter. ... So, positive opinion. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I wonder. I'm asking you here when did someone because of the State Audit opinion because of the negative or poor opinion of the State Audit and the assessment answer? When did anyone in this country respond for the opinion of the State Audit, starting with criminal privatisation? Who answered that? Thus, 18 years have passed since the establishment of the statehood of the independence of the Republic of Croatia. And the other day I was at the 18th anniversary celebration and listening to the song "We are the Guard of Croatia!". I'm counting on this "We're the Guard of Croatia!" It should be this noun, looking all around it, looking at many around it should be replaced by another name, another noun that also fits into this slogan, in this song of ours. That's why I think the debate here went completely wrong. Instead of discussing the content, the essence of what happened, we're discussing, the ingenuities, the State Audit, whether it was lawful for the Chief Inspector to carry out the inspection, to conduct surveillance. Very interesting. And those questions I've seen to General Joza Milicevic, indeed, that I've been in his skin, or I'd rather not be in those moments in his skin, and I think according to this report, he's really given a true and honorable statement to that committee and it's really degutant to say that someone said here from HDZ that he's tarnished me seems so kind of a military honor and reputation. In any case, this report is the party majority report in this House, so I have nothing more to comment on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34496	Thank you. Three corrections. Mr. Representative Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34497	I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Grubisic, who is in his statement, if I understand him correctly, there is no supervision. Neither can the law foresee it, the Chief Defence Inspector cannot control civil institutions except in the part where the Law on Defence is spoken. In the control of the implementation of defence preparations, legal persons have the power, in the purchase, to spend their budgets, not as much as you think it is the competent State Audit, the police, the UsKOK, the State Attorney's Office, there are institutions, there are bodies. Therefore, your data is incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34498	Second correction, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34499	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Grubisic said that harassment was a question of whether the general had the right under the law to make that surveillance, that it was harassment. So it can't be any harassment because he didn't have the right under the law. It is amazing that someone who has been sitting in the highest legislative body is considered to have been harassed when it comes to the question of whether anyone has been acting according to the law. Well, that's a really amazing fact. It can't be, it's not harassment because he had no right under the law as you've heard, it belongs to some other institutions. Does this mean that you can take the right to exercise supervision over the Ministry of Finance of counterpart Grubisic, who is allegedly in favour of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34500	Vice-President Susana Bilic-Vardic is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34501	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. His colleague Grubisic made inaccuracies. One of these is also when he refers to Honorary General Jozo Miličević as the chief inspector of the Croatian Army, which if we are to be right, he was only the behavioural officer of the Croatian Army and my predecessors and colleagues, Roncevic and counterpart Matušić, said without any authority to carry out the job because it is the work of the State Audit. And besides, I'm surprised that in the House we advocate that the army, generals control the work of ministers and civil services because it reminds me of some type of Latin American state and something like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34502	SDP representative club Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34503	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. I think citizens will understand two things very well from today's debate. The first is that we want to stress that citizens understand that the investigative committees that trust opposition in Croatia do not make any sense because the investigative commission is in most positions, so the position is explored. That's not the point of an investigative committee at all. That's why we have today I could say a completely wrong debate. So the position wants to discuss whether the Chief Defence Inspector has the right to investigate, whether it's part of the circle or not, which is not the subject of the debate at all. It's not a matter of debate at all. The point of the debate is why more public money was spent than needed, it's the subject of debate. And whether the inspector was right or wrong, it's the subject of some other debate, not these. Although the inspector would not have the right under the law, and he found that there was an illegality or in a mild form of irregularity, it does not reduce the facts he found. This does not diminish the facts that he has established. This could be unauthorized obtained evidence and be called upon to do so. But the fact remains, the fact that more public money was spent than was necessary. That's what's left for the public. Don't speak for your position, we're not asking you to admit it. Second, what we've done with this investigation committee. So the position is one more thing for the public, so to speak, it's done to the harm of trust in the institutions. The file undoubtedly states that the State Audit had three approaches to things. One approach was for her internally, internally for the State Audit, the other was for the Ministry itself and the third was for the public, i.e. for representatives of the public or representatives of the citizens of the Croatian Parliament. In such a situation, we have again that a number of hands or positions determine what is true. Well, that's not the point of an investigative committee. It's the sense that most of us who are in position are investigating that position. Then you lose the sense of the multiparty, you lose the sense of control of the position. The general sense of what Parliament is doing is lost if it does not control it. ... And you keep your opinion, I speak for the public and the public evaluates me, as you have yours spoken. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Therefore, all the facts and arguments that are investigated by the Commission, and there are many here that are not disputed, is one of those that has been paid more to get trucks than they should have. For the public, it doesn't even matter who's responsible. It doesn't matter. Because if we had the institutions of the legal system or the rule of law and the rule of law, then we wouldn't wait five years for the institutions of the rule of law to be seen about these things. And the rule of law institutions are primarily the State's Attorney's Office, State's audit and courts. We can try not to see or show that we don't see it, but the citizens see it well and the meaning of this investigation committee. The opposition has done its constitutional task, completely done. Of course, because of the relationship most of the forces forced to be in the commission, we didn't come to conclusions that were logical, but we didn't expect it. It was important to make a visible Croatian public aware of how public money was handled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34504	Thank you. Five corrections. First Mr. Representative Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34505	The inaccuracies allege that the task and purpose of this commission was to determine that trucks were overpaid, but the task was whether they were. You have entered this commission with prejudice. Not you as an esteemed colleague, Leko, but as an SDP. Well, my colleague Stazic, before the commission was set up, yelled here in the Parliament, discussing with us ten topics, crime related to trucks. The commission's job is whether or not they are, as you say, aren't they. You speak to the Croatian public. I speak too, my colleague, the Croatian public and the Croatian public have recognised it. In the city where I live, my party got 45% in the last election, and your 6.7. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34506	Mr. Representative Frano Matušić, next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34507	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So it is incorrect for counterpart Leko to in parliaments with a global democratic, that the work of the investigative commission only takes place in the opposition ranks. So that's not true. Everywhere, an investigative commission in parliaments is formed by world democratics in a way that is equally represented by the participation in parliament itself, so the parties elected. The second thing is that it is entrusted to the presidency, that is, instead of the president, to the opposition. That's one thing. Secondly, you are referring obviously to the democratic practice of parliaments only after the '90s, before we heard you refer to that practice. And the third thing, when you talk about how this commission was formed to determine why more money was spent than needed, not why, but whether it was spent, as already said. It's not why. It's what it is. I'm up until '90. I called, colleague Leko, and I was even forbidden to talk about going to church and what I do and how to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34508	Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin, next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34509	Mr. Vice President. ... My colleagues are already what I wanted to say said, is not that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Because from such an assumption that it has been paid more than that, we are not leaving today. Today's debate did not show that more was spent, but was discussed whether this finding was wrong as a presummation of something that does not exist. Thank you, but my colleagues have already said.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34510	Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34511	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. It is the incorrect statement by Mr. Lek, which he claimed, which I quote: "...that more money was spent than it should have been spent." That's incorrect. It's completely incorrect. And unfortunately, you in the Croatian Parliament have the right to say your opinion without being familiar with the subject at all, that you have not read all relevant documents. If you'd read it all, you wouldn't have said it. It's earned value for money spent, as the English say is worth for money. That's right. What was bought 3% is cheaper than the declared prices in the first competition. Therefore, you claim and you bring the courts that I would say disturb the Croatian public, and that at the same time you have not taken responsibility for getting to know you and that you have read all the important documents that uncontestably prove that 3% of the price is cheaper than the first competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34512	And Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34513	Well, here's my colleague, Leco, saying it's not a dispute that trucks are overpaid. I mean, it's really funny after the whole story, but it's an extremely big breakthrough in the heads of the SDP, because they first claimed that 15 million were stolen. Now on one turnout, more expensive trucks were bought, and they could have been cheaper trucks. So, piece by piece, and I think it's going to change in their way of thinking. And the fact is that really this commission didn't make sense given the results, and that's what you'll feel best in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34514	Five-minute debates, club of HDZ MPs Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34515	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. After almost a full day's debate, we're now hearing that it's not right for most of us to outvote the minority, so now we're going to be back in '45. when the minority outvoted most. I think it's democracy that most people say their own and respect it and that by raising their hands, it's confirmed. And we will by hand confirm that the affair of trucks is a political affair, a dirty fabrication, an invention that has damaged one man and his family irreparably defiled and irreparably defiled. But also an affair that has damaged the Republic of Croatia because I have heard in a whole series of countries this as an example of high-level state corruption. What did we prove in the commission? We have proved that the choice of the truck was carried out by the Chief Staff and not by Minister Roncevic. The main headquarters ruled out 4 out of 6 bidders. With this letter of November 25, 2004, when he said: “We agree on the following offers. It lists the types of trucks and excludes four bidders from the truck. There are 2 IVECO and Mercedes left." Department of the Ministry, the purchasing service of those two selections of the one who is 16% cheaper and that's the whole story of trucks. Why were they bought more in the second contest than was foreseen in the first? Because NATO's negotiations came to the final stage and we had to pursue the partnership goals of joining NATO together, we had to buy more of these trucks, and these negotiations were led by the ministry. So the picture is completely simple, it's bare to the extreme and there's no doubt about getting those trucks anymore. But what is the truth? It's not true what we here claim and vote for. The truth is what will be presented to the Croatian public. Which of our discussions will come out. I'm afraid it's not going to be anything like what came out after this commission's work, reduced, forged, hidden, disguised, rewritten. If this comes out then democracy in Croatia has indeed not come to life. I'm just going to say that the key document has been denied. Mr. Stazic as chairman of the commission skipped the document and we did not, Mr. Stazic, and we did not include it in the documents we had declassified. When I found the document and asked him why you didn't include the key document in the lists, he said, you have a phonogram, because the minister didn't call it. In his decision, the minister did not refer to any other 740 documents because he did not have to. He has to work on the documents and it's known when he calls, when he doesn't call. High-quality trucks have been purchased. Croatia has entered NATO. The trucks are in full power, as General Lucic testified. Trucks meet the standards that were needed. Former Minister Roncevic is a black sheep in the Croatian public for several years, and Croatia has a negative perception, a poor perception of corruption at the state summit. Who profited? Certainly not the inventor and father of this defamation, this counterfeit. And that's why I would tell the inventor of this slander and all my associates and assistants something that all Croatian politicians should have in mind. Let's put Croatia's interests ahead of our own. Let's not think about our political option in the first place. We sometimes think of Croatia and its interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34516	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34517	Well, it's incorrect that my colleague Hebrang claims that as chairman of the commission, I've suppressed any document, because I've simply been in no position to hide something, to hide something or not to bring something to the commission. So, all the members of the committee received all the documentation that MORH sent. The fact, however, is that Minister Roncevic, when making his decision, never and nowhere has he called for access from Eurokamion to be obtained as a key document. As a key document in the commission's work, he was invented by fellow Hebrang. He gave him too much importance, the importance that this document doesn't really have. But it doesn't matter this document or that document. It's an important affair here as a whole. It is important here how much money has been spent and here it is important and what fellow Hebrang says to the public, the public's attitude towards corruption, the public's attitude towards corruption, when it includes executive power, ministers, vice-presidents of the government, the Prime Minister. That's all that matters.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34518	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34519	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We're going to vote. First report on the work of the investigation committee on the fact-finding of 39 military trucks by the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia in December 2004. The debate is closed. But before we see the quorum. You're welcome to engage to control the quorum. The result? 92. We have a quorum, we can work. Therefore, in line with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the work of the Research Commission to determine the facts regarding the purchase of 39 military trucks by the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia is accepted in December 2004. A year.". Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that the report was accepted by a majority of 72 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 27 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34520	We're moving on to the next point. This is - The report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions for 2008 After that debate would conduct a joint debate on the Proposal of the Law on Prosecution, the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the execution of prison sentences and the Proposal for a law on the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences and offences. It's an organic connection to all these three laws, the law of probation, so how long, once we've had the debate, then we'll continue tomorrow. ... Oh, please! [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Take it easy, what are we up against? A united debate. [[Intruder: The United Debate!]] It's about the law of probation, the execution of prison sentences and juvenile sanctions. Oppose. Unfortunately, good. Unfortunately, we don't have most quorums that could be put to the vote. Because there's always rebellion. Then we can't vote unitedly because there's no quorum. Then we'll go now to the hearing on the report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions for 2008. The applicant shall be the Government which submitted the report pursuant to Article 6. The law on the execution of a prison sentence. The hearing was conducted by the Justice Committee. You received the reports at the session. I ask the Minister of Justice, Mr. Ivan Shimonovic, to further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34521	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, respected MPs and MPs. Less than half a year ago, I presented the report on the state of the prison system for 2007 and the action plan. After only 4 months, I am in front of you again and I submit to you in the 2008 Report, the updated Action Plan and the three Laws, the Probation Act, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Prison Penalty Act and the Law on the execution of sanctions imposed on minors. Why so soon? Why is this package of reform of the prison system so extensive? Just for your comments and suggestions, respected MPs and MPs. A report on the state of the prison system for 2008 is submitted quickly and timely this time, as soon as possible in view of all the financial indicators to be collected. The report's methodology takes into account all the observations made to the 2007 report. The 2008 report shall refer to the observations of the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman for children. The same attention is paid to security aspects in the prison system as well as to professional action and rehabilitation, and includes a reference to the adjustment of the service of prison sentences to disabled persons or other special needs. The action plan, which was welcomed on the occasion of last debate, this time is in line with the remarks of 4 months ago, elaborated on the dynamics of implementation and the necessary costs. And finally, why are they in this package, regardless of how he's going to be discussed and these three laws? It is simply because without their adoption, or change in the situation in the prison system, it cannot be sufficiently fixed and brought into line with modern requirements and standards. When I took over as justice minister eight months ago, there were two groups of serious problems in the prison system. Subjective and objective. Subjective problems related to the inconsistency and selectivity of the application of the rule of law or other words, the benefit of individual prisoners to the greatest extent has been successfully removed. For this purpose, the rotation of the prison manager was carried out and the managers had to report from irregularities to the institution in which they were temporarily deployed. Where necessary, inspection oversight of the prison system administration was also directed. As a result, 8 criminal proceedings were initiated, of which 3 against the prison manager, 54 disciplinary proceedings, of which 4 against the prison manager and finally, as a result of 21 prisons and penitentiary, today 6 have new managers, which is about 30%. Although large numbers can always be missed by law, I estimate that the atmosphere in the prison system is significantly improved with regard to the rule of law and equality in action. The objective problems unfortunately require longer and more systematic resolution. But respected MPs and MPs, if the proposed package of laws and action plans are adopted and implemented, I estimate that the prison system in Croatia can be one of the better in Europe by the end of 2014. What's the current situation? The current situation is very worrying. This is being warned by the Advocate in their annual report, by the judgments of the Croatian courts and the European Court of Human Rights for claims of compensation due to inadequate prison conditions and by a decision of the Constitutional Court which obliges the Government to improve and comply with the relevant standards within 5 years. Such a decision implies appropriate changes throughout the system because the conditions in Remetinco are even better than in some other institutions. The 2008 report on the state of the prison system coincides significantly with the assessments from those sources. As in previous years, the main problems are the first overcrowding of 35%, and in closed conditions as much as 52% and a lack of staff of about 20%. Key security indicators are still good. There are fewer suicides, self-harms, assaults, and escapes. But the problem isn't just the state, it's the trends. The number of prisoners continues to grow at 10% per year. Smaller adaptations cannot cope with such a rate of increase in the number of prisoners, and in prisons there is an increasing overcrowding and an increasingly unfavourable ratio between staff and prisoners. These objective problems can only be solved through a larger reform procedure. It includes the adoption of three mentioned laws, i.e. amendments to the law and the adoption and implementation of the revised action plan. Let me introduce you to the basics of the action plan first. The pace of increasing the number of prisoners should be slowed down by introducing a sampling system and by expanding the use of alternative sanctions, the number of prisoners currently around 5 thousand should be reduced by about a thousand. To expand, i.e. to build new capacities where the most important building of the Glina prison is for 420 persons by 2010, the building of Zagreb prisons for 376 seats by 2011 and the construction of a new penitentiary and prison in Sibenik for 1230 persons by 2014. It is necessary to increase the number of members of the prison police and treatment staff, expand the leprosy and more frequently apply treatment programmes both in prisons and at large. What will the effects of this reform be? We'll get not only a more humane and modern prison system, but also a reduction of renaissance. The estimated cost of this action plan is about a billion and 100 million kuna. The actual cost is actually lower because this amount should be refused savings in the overtime that are now being paid and savings on fees for lost disputes both in front of domestic courts and in Strasbourg. Finally, it is very difficult to mathematically express how much society gets by reducing the rate of recitism. Part of the funds needed will be collected from international sources through donations, through favourable loans. The Council of Europe Development Bank has already expressed its readiness in principle to cover largely the costs of implementing the action plan. Dear MPs and MPs, the adoption of an appropriate action plan, even this difficult time of crisis and recession is not only moral and European, but according to the Constitutional Court's decision and legal obligation, so I warmly ask you to support it. The legal package will be discussed later, so I'm done with the exposure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34522	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Does the rapporteur of the Justice Committee want to take his word? Thank you. Then I'm opening a debate. The first application for a debate on behalf of the club of representatives is on behalf of the SDP club, a respected representative of Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34523	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. Since Mr. Minister is on behalf of us, in closing words, he has addressed us with one warm request to support this report together with the action plan. Speaking on behalf of the club, I can say they'd be happy to do that if they thought the government was serious. But, Mr. Secretary, allow me to look at your report before I look back, and in parallel with a report by the Attorney General who speaks of the same subject, but in a completely different way. Let me tell you what's going on in your prison system with relevant data and with the obligations you're saying it will be, but what's currently going on and what makes us see that there's nothing out of it, except the mere story and the mere bumps we've been hearing from since 2004, when the diaries, our most investigative, now I'm thinking of "The Morning List," publishing big headlines, are building new prisons. Since 2004, we have stories about how to work and build, and we never have a story about what to do right now and what to do tomorrow, except to take away the funds from the prison system. Mr. Minister, it is currently being executed in the prison system of about 1200 convictions and have about 400 commissioners for the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia. That's what I'm telling you about this famous piece of experimentation, how it's going to fail before it comes to life. In the 2009 budget, I quote: "The position of the resociation of convicts of around 4 million kunas, although the prison system has asked you to provide through the Government the 10 million kunas needed by the system to carry out these measures, especially these detailed ones that you are proposing now and what account are without the innkeepers, because you did not provide funds for this. You've secured funds, you're talking about 2013, and you're not able to secure a cell detector, which will only be provided in 2013. And you've been given a term in four years, not in 25 years, and the situation in the prison system is catastrophic, it is a serious security problem for the Republic of Croatia, for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, not to speak for those people in the system, I'm not saying that, that's the assessment of the Ombudsman. But who, because of this, because of his objective observation of the prison system gets as a bad messenger to the government, because the government doesn't admit problems. No problem. They will be resolved, but will be resolved there in 2013, 2014. It does not get a passing assessment and now instead of us uniting the hearing of the Ombudsman on this subject, you would now, or the chairman of it before you perform, want to join a debate on all of this, a whole package of laws that do not really have. They could ultimately have their own common result in improving the system, but each of them has its own weight and special task. Of course, it costs a lot of money. Keep going. So 10 million kunas were to be provided. They're secured for 2009. Four lousy million kunas for that purpose. Please, but that's not enough. Two million kunas were removed on the rebalance, and you didn't talk about it. Instead of defending those 4 million kunas that are only maintaining an existing state, not improving and developing a system of further testing, because good things, these are great things that suggest, but they cost, and they will remain only at the level of verbalization. But there are living people and those who keep them and who live there, who get six months in prison that's going to get sick tomorrow, infected by HIV, and who'll infect their family both closer and further. This is a serious situation, this is a dramatic situation. Governments fell on the prison system, and so many prime ministers and many prime ministers were serious about this problem and were afraid of this problem. Well, I can't let the people who got it, so it's three, four months in prison, and it's really good to keep those people out of the prison system from experiencing a criminal infection, but not to experience virus infection. Incurable viruses. So, this means that, as more than 2 million kunas remain on the rebalance, all payments to the commissioners were practically suspended. That means, if you don't express alternative sanctions,... will continue the prison system because there is no means for alternative sanctions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, we're proposing something that would relieve the prison system, not secure the funds, and it will further burden the prison system. For 1,400 new convicts in the near future. And now that there are 1,500 extras. Is it wise to talk about what this will lead to? Therefore, this is the way to talk about the prison system. The lakhs and running away into some distant future don't help here. They're not helping, Mr. Minister. I think you're aware of that, too. Namely, if we look at the 2008 report by the Ombudsman and the report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prison and education systems for 2008, so on the same issue, as the Government says and what the Ombudsman says. The occupier, who was last year still last year and before last year, said the situation in Croatian prisons and penitentiaries is below the human minimum, is that I repeat a serious security problem, that the problem of overcrowding cannot be looked at mathematically. There's a lot of 'em and nobody's got 'em. It is that the source of enormous problems, that no measure there can be implemented, that you put the most peaceful people in one limited space, the most appropriate people, not without the scene, not with any behavioral disturbances that have committed crimes and which continue to pose a social danger that requires resociation so that in a certain very short time it cannot survive without disrupting the mental and physical health itself and those surrounding it. In that case, however, nothing was done. Of course, these are the problems and there should be fair and considerate beyond both the abilities and capacities of both the prison administrations and the ministries. That resolution ministry may warn but that's the government's problem. And then you need to be aware of that problem and secure the funds. Here's what the vacancy attorney says for persons deprived of liberty in his report. He says that for the past year, people deprived of freedom complained much more and that the increase in complaints is obvious. Where the most frequent complaints are, concerns the conditions of accommodation, health care provision, work engagement, disapproval of use of convenience, transfer, etc. that the checks, therefore, were carried out by the Advocate General. Let's not forget in 2005, in detail, every cell went, every mattress turned, the devastating results were found there. Why am I bringing this up? Which, year after year, says the situation hasn't improved, but that it has worsened. So, in that first term of office since 2004, when the public defender constantly warned about the disastrous situation in 2005, so it went badly, and with this second term, you were rapidly getting worse. And that's where you see the results in the prison system. But before this perhaps more detailed analysis, what led to the catastrophic state of prisons and penitentiary? That's something we have to say. The prison system is a consequence of criminally laundered policy and everything that happens in a policy that is viewed in criminal law, in criminal politics it has its reflection and reflection in that end. In the penalty system. Absolutely, therefore, such chaos and such a dramatic situation in prisons are primarily the result of the wrong government's criminal criminal policy. It has introduced every law enforcement act, noting that it is such a social danger that it deserves a prison sentence. The consequences are dramatic that we have random delinquents, that we have primary delinquents, that we have bagatial delinquents, delinquents that aren't like that in our own faces, but I repeat random delinquents, but then they come to prisons and prisons and there to practice training and education. Instead of going out resociated, they are because of these problems that are in objective nature because such conditions are there. There's nothing the best healers can do. Our people really can't say in most I'd dare say over 90% professionally doing their job, but these are opportunities, or better said trouble, to repeat that every excess treatment is in vain. So that's where they come in crime schools. With the great danger of experiencing infectious diseases and I say they pose a serious danger when their doors open. So, the attorney general says that these problems he defined, he detected in detail, so he points to the draft attorney general's findings from 2005, 6th and 7th years. And in 2008, he says "not only are they still present, but given the increase in overcrowding in certain segments and worsened". As objective as this finding is, it also speaks of certain efforts of the prison system, to improve here and there with its modest conditions somehow redecorate certain rooms, take down the shades. But simply all of these possibilities are limited without further a financial injection and the involvement of the entire government. Therefore, the causes of overcrowding are undoubtedly complex, and they are primarily derived from the wrong criminal legal policy. Instead of reserving for prisons really dangerous criminals, acts that are extremely social hazards to impose exactly the sentence of prison, and not other alternative sanctions. Therefore, this system that you advocate and which is sure to support, but which will primarily remain only beautiful desires and a wish list, unless they have a material background, was necessary first of all to change the Penal Code. What burdens the Croatian public and Croatian citizens and I repeat what we as Croatia have not recovered from since the 1990s that Croatia has long been traumatised to one long-term deadline, almost equal to aggression, and this is a robbery in conversion and privatisation, that we do not have adequate economic incrimination until today, we do not have a modern economic incrimination that one who stays in business is obliged to believe that he committed a serious, serious crime. It's a crime outside that's been punishable for 20 years. The leaders of Enron for 20 years have been tried, Parmelata in our possession is not even a felony. It's not even a crime with us. And if we give in to one imagination of the state's attorney's office that would eventually initiate this procedure, it shouldn't be a prophet and expect an adequate judicial epilogue. It was therefore necessary to amend the criminal legislation. The government keeps saying no. Now we already have a promise that it will start to change, and by then we've always had an explanation that no good results are seen yet, it should be seen and stories like that and we've been listening here for years. In 2003, we had this in criminal law incorporated, we changed 5.6 times criminal legislation, we banned even cloning, but not necessarily what was necessary. And such a stubborn attitude led to a situation like this in the prison system. In the prison system to this extent is a dramatic situation that the living rooms, chapels after we have introduced the soulcare because it is one of the important segments in the resociation. What did you do now? You made these chapels just in the dormitory because you have nowhere to put prisoners, in the social rooms. Even parts of the administrative rooms are refurbished to the dormitory and mattresses are placed on the floor because metal bed frames are no longer placed in the bedrooms. Is there anything else you should listen to after this? Here's an example for you of what the Attorney General found. There was a severe lung patient upstairs and on the bed below there was an incontinent incontinent, there was no protection under the sheet and the mattress was completely soaked. Staying in such unhygienic conditions and only a few moments is very difficult, so it is unimaginable that a living man with severe pulmonary disease lives in them. See, that's the real report, that's what you don't write, you don't say a word. You are now rebelling that it is not an object. It's an object. And then how do you accept this report of yours that's nothing but... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34524	It's been 15 minutes, dear colleagues. Thank you very much. We have one correction to an incorrect assumption. Dear Representative Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34525	Dear fellow Antičević, allow me to correct an incorrect allegation and actually characterise this speech as one of those who has abounded with a number of incorrect allegations but also offensive and inappropriate syntagms, in fact this is a speech that actually, when excuses are made, makes them all present, makes them uncomfortable, especially representatives of the government, and especially when they come with the best intentions to do something to improve the situation. When you were talking about HIV and other infections. ... Here's the correction of the incorrect quote, among other things, when you said that viral infections like HIV and others are obtained, etc. to the extent and the way you said in the prison system is incorrect among other things because to a large extent, people who have HIV and other viral infections are entering the system and you further stegmatized the prisoners. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So here's how much my contribution is to your correction of the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34526	Thank you very much. The next registered club is the HNS club and the esteemed representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34527	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. The report ahead of us would have been said to be on time before the summer break four months after the previous report and it seems that this passage is sufficient to assess whether something has happened to the situation in prisons or if we are in some sad continuity. I'd like to say a few sentences on the report itself and then on the area it deals with. This report seems rather inconsistencies to us at the HNS Club when it comes to how many facts and figures on the one hand are listed and on the other hand how they are analysed. In fact, this is not just a mere methodological observation because good analysis is most often the first step towards improving the analysis of the problem and where it remains only at the number level is less likely to take action. However, we commend the progress shown in this report in relation to the previous reports, and in particular this correlation with the report of the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman for the children because we have not had it so far. The report is also inconsistencies and as regards the aspect of the state of play between prison staff and the situation concerning prisoners and the conditions of their accommodation, education, health care, resociation. For example, there is no answer in the report to the question why new employees were not admitted even though 25 million kuna were spent on overtime hours and the existing officials did the job in the range of two hundred additional employees. First of all, the state’s money is being scattered in this way because overtime is more expensive than regular work. Secondly, it burdens officials who already have a well-favoured job experience. And third, is it really not possible to download from the list of unemployed in the Republic of Croatia, find 2 hundred people who are able to be involved in this system as employees? Also, there are several other problems in this report or where it falls below the level that is so average. For example, in that part of the disabled, we have not been able to find out at all how many such persons are in prisons. Or with a transparently haired thing like, for example, the indication of how many sacred Masses were included in the program, and that is, under the dedication of cultural events. Holy Mass is not a cultural event, and in this way information about what kind of cultural offer we have in our penitentiary or prisons is actually fabricated. However, despite all this, we will support this report for at least three reasons. The first is that the report rightly shows a very difficult situation in the penitentiary. Secondly, the report contains quite enough data to open up space for a good discussion and problem analysis, and then also means making assessments as well as measures to improve the system and in some ways to support all those who are trying to reform this system or who have taken the job to change this situation. As far as the second aspect is concerned, and that's the state of the penitentiary, it's obvious that nothing is better than it was before, even worse. In view of the indicators, the number of prison personnel remained almost the same with the fact that the need gap is now much higher. The new systematization set up 3 thousand 239 jobs, of which 2 thousand 576 were filled, which is 20% less than necessary. We're missing treatment personnel, insurance officials missing, healthcare professionals, especially doctors. We respect the efforts of the Central Office and the prison to improve the situation by contracts on work and overtime, but these are fire measures, it does not solve the stability of this system in the long term. Since one employee now covers 3.11 prisoners, it is clear that there is no word about the proper process of resociation and that the basic purpose of the imprisonment of convicts is lost because the punishment becomes only retribution and repression. Officers' illnesses are still too large. Conditions of employment of employees in the prison system at the edge of tolerance. Human relations in many institutions have been very disrupted and, as has already been said, overtime in the system has reached 450 thousand hours, i.e. 200 hours per employee. It's more than regular hours. Only every fifth officer in the last year had a chance to get an extra education. In this light, Article 8 of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the execution of a prison sentence appears to be entirely controversial, as he leaves employees to an existing disorder in the system. This article proposes to abolish the current restrictions on the duration of the possible transfer for assistance of three months, i.e. with the consent of employees for six months. Now, in fact, all these limits are moving. It's like these people don't have any family and these people aren't connected to the neighborhood where they're employed. That's not good. After a minimal increase in accommodation capacity in the prison system, it is therefore 3351 places from December 2008, in prisons there were 4734 prisoners, so almost 50% more than the capacity. Given that the international Croatian standard is 4 m2 per prisoner, and in practice this means that in our prisons he fell below 3 m2, that means that all those remarks by the attorney general who were actually painting one horror, not only stand but are in many situations even worse. It is a negative trend that can only be changed by root procedures, new investments in building prison-type capacities and, of course, in increasing the number of prison staff. What concerns us is that only every third prisoner is employed, and the largest number of those employed are in the regime. There are indicators in this segment from year to year that are getting worse and worse, they are likely due to the overcrowding of prisons, but also other poor indicators such as relatively reducing the number of staff per prisoner, and that means reducing the possibility of implementing specific work programmes. Of course, it is difficult to understand and accept because working therapy is one of the best forms of resociation of prisoners, but it is also difficult to reduce the costs of the total prison system and the separation of the community for the purposes of covering those costs. By turning former prison firms into a limited-responsibility society, such as Lipovica and Orljav, there are now only 11 prisoners, and the work of detainees is only symbolic. The health care of prisoners remains a problem. One third of the systematicized jobs in the health care system, i.e. care of prisoners, are not filled, and of course, doctors are missing. This is not specific to the prison system, of course, the doctor is generally missing. We see this especially now in the season when the coastal emergency services are struggling to complete their teams. But almost every third prisoner tested suffers from hepatitis B or C. The extremely high percentage of prisoners are alcohol and drugs addicts, and more than 150 are PTSD patients. The training of prisoners is 15% worse or worse than in 2007, and 15% is less of the students, and it does not meet minimum standards. More than a quarter of those involved in the education system interrupt education and equipment and teamwork of education staff are growing worse and worse. After such objective indicators of the state of the prison system, they are a wonder those indicators that speak about the state of security because the fewer attacks on the officer and the significantly less use of the means of coercion, the less self-harming, the less conflict among prisoners, and the number of suicide attempts is twice as small as four years ago. There were no escapes from closed conditions, and there was no attempted escape. It is likely that these results are primarily better operational and preventive work by judicial police officers, as well as some better equipment in the meantime. But it is worth noting that the number of search rooms and persons has tripled since 2007. This system consumes around 500 million kunas of budget funds annually and another 50 million kunas of self-earned funds from its own activity, which represents an increase of 20% compared to the previous year. But compared to five years ago, the budget cuts by 50%, so now the country's prisoner's day costs about 305 kuna. But when you look at the direct daily cost per prisoner, it's actually about 57 kuna and it's only 10% higher than 2003. If we know that only last year inflation was somewhere around 6%, then we are quite clear that the real situation of prisoners and the conditions of their lives are getting worse. Recently, a colleague in a discussion about the previous report said that the prisons were a mirror of society. It seems to me that in this case they are the mirror of some past time, not actually the mirror of society. It is an anacronism to which we must devote ourselves to a comprehensive reform, because we want to believe that living standards, living conditions and communal standards in Croatia have grown in the last 15 years. Our mirror doesn't show it, it definitely doesn't show it. If this action plan is not implemented, which is presented in all segments and planned deadlines, the prison system will certainly collapse. Increasing accommodation capacity, new employees, more appropriate legislative framework, more modern equipment. All of this would actually allow us to catch a step in the next five years, but we must be aware that if the rates continue or trends of negative growth, trends and rates of increase in those poor indicators, as so far has been the case, I fear that all the extensions of prison capacity foreseen by 2014 will not be enough at all, because with this rate of increase in the number of people who serve prison sentences in prisons and prisons will actually increase the total number to that extent that all of this will not be enough. In this regard, it is extremely important to move to the realization of the changed criminal policy as soon as possible, to reduce the number of people who end up in an investigative prison and to reduce the length of its duration, to increase the number of convictions by working for the common good and also conditional convictions in protective custody and to establish a system of probation as quickly as possible. Because, on the contrary, this action plan by 2015 will unfortunately not change the content of the debate on a report that the Croatian Parliament will then discuss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34528	Thank you very much. The third and last-reported discussion club is the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative of Mrs. Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34529	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support and accept this report on the work, state and work of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions for 2008. I must first of all express my satisfaction here because this year this report has indeed arrived at the constituency benches on yet here's the last day today in the first half of 2009. It is good that this time together with the report we get a proposal for an action plan, and this is one systematic and long-term action plan until 2014 which sets out the measures and objectives towards resolving the situation in the prison system which, due to objective circumstances, is not satisfactory. I must say that the proposals for plans have also been proposed in previous periods, but have never before covered precise financial resources, probably because there has always been a concern over the pre-determination of commitments to the budget, amounts that are not and cannot be small and average given the situation in the prison system and how much intervention it requires. But apparently this time, the government is bound by the Constitutional Court's decision, which has given the government no longer than 5 years to adapt the capacity of the prison to the needs and number of persons deprived of liberty. This action plan weighs a billion and 100 million kunas allocated in six years, nearly 180 million a year. It's one-on-one. Do we bear in mind that, in spite of the tenfold budgetary increases in the past two years, the capital building rate in the prison system has continued to be ten million kuna so far? Of course, it is not possible to secure this money in the budget, but it is necessary to seek to attract the European Union funds, or how it is in the plan of the European Development Bank's resources, but I just don't know how much they are non-refundable they are, how creditworthy they are. I therefore propose and I think it would be good to turn around and in all ways find some funding from European funds that would be irreversible. That is to say, consider or update the construction of large facilities through a public-private partnership as it was timely and envisaged if these funds do not occur. We see from the 2008 report that the trend of increasing the number of people deprived of freedoms continues over the last year by over 10%. So, compared to 4290 people deprived of freedom in 2007, the number increased to over 4770 and some. The trend in prisoner growth does not also follow the appropriate growth in accommodation capacities as well as an increase in the number of prison officials. So, with the great efforts of the government and the ministry, with the arrangement of existing capacities, with the redecoration that we have heard there a little ironically all of those spaces, and often the Office of the Prison Administration to increase the number of places for prisoners. In 2008, it was only 89 seats with construction in Glina, the construction of a prison or a prison in Glina, which envisions 420 new sites. Also, according to the report, the chart that monitors the situation from 2001 to 2008 shows that the increase in the number of prisoners is at a constant age. But on the other hand, the number of law enforcement officers is stagnating from 2001 to 2007. The first major step was made in 2007 when about two hundred officials were admitted to the prison system, which in the insurance business, which in the treatment business. And likewise that year was an enormous number of overtime hours, so, of course, the logical move was to hire new employees for the amount paid for overtime. I understand, there was a little before the inquiry, and why don't you do it when we have over 450,000 again seems to me overtime equivalent to 200 permanent employees in the system, why don't you do it. Given the process, the employment plans, the necessary approval of the Ministry of Finance for new employment, it is understandable that this procedure is long-term and difficult, and since jobs in the prison system, because they are living people, can't be delayed, then they are solved by palitative solutions, and that means overtime, which is actually the worst solution, we are all aware of that because persons, as it was just said, who, due to the difficult conditions, have an unfavourable work experience because these jobs are so hard, we burden almost double working hours. But it is one necessity, and I firmly believe that the minister and the ministry are doing everything possible for this amount of money for overtime people because there are people who are unemployed and there are people who could do these jobs. Of course, there are a whole series of measures that can burden the prison system, not only by building capacity, although it is necessary. The measures other than capacity building are incentives and these measures have been implemented, as we see from the 2008 report, that measures have been implemented to encourage and educate judges to give conditional convictions with protective supervision and condemnation for work for the common good. But I have to say right away that it is not understood, that measure contributes to the reduction of the number of prisoners, but that is not the result, it has other values than overcrowding, but we will talk about it later when we discuss these other laws. Furthermore, an enormous number of detentions and long-term detentions were observed. We have cases where people in custody spend a year, two years. During 2008, systematic analysis was carried out together with the Supreme Court. The length of detention, the reasons for detention has been considered and we hope that both in this segment and the adoption of a new Criminal Procedure Act will bring about improvements since we expect a more effective investigation, i.e. a preliminary procedure. At first glance, it might not be said that the measure of special treatment is something that also burdens the prison system, but ultimately and in the long term quite certainly because special treatments with specific groups of prisoners in terms of treatment for the prevention of prevention, so in the case of violence, sexual delicacies, drug addiction, alcohol addiction and resociation aid are also measures that prevent relapses and relapses, and thus indirectly reduce the number of prisoners. I would therefore particularly like to highlight all the programmes undertaken in prison staff education during 2008, programmes with partners from the European Union, mainly because there were the Dutch partners for the team... prevention of treatment of peer violence, then treatment of prisoners of perpetrators of criminal offences with elements of violence in penitentiary and prisons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then the development of a reliable and efficient prison system with respect to fundamental rights and standards, and the promotion of regional co-operation in South East Europe, etc., etc. So the education of officials, their promotions of their knowledge, their competences are extremely important in treatment and in working with special groups of prisoners. If we consider that 35% of persons convicted of criminal offences, property crimes, 22% for acts against the values protected by international law, and the rest of the percentage has been allocated to other crimes and that each 4th diagnosed prisoner has a security measure, we see more of how important it is to work on systematic treatments, special treatments for special groups of prisoners. Also, from inmates of addicts, therefore, with whom withdrawal treatments are to be conducted, and 50% of the population is now coming into the HIV-infected prison system. Of these prisoners, therefore, addicts in the addiction population are about 40% convicted or jailed for the qualified forms referred to in Article 173 of criminal drug abuse, and the rest are addicts who committed other crimes, mostly in most of the theft. We said that, and in the report of the attorney general, it was noted that the inadequacy of the prisoner's employment was insufficient. I agree that further efforts should be made and measures taken for further work, but what should be stated is that this work engagement must always be voluntary, so there is no forced labour and no one can be forced to work. And it should also be borne in mind that there is a large percentage in this population of detainees who then have neither the conditions nor the time for employment. Here, due to the time at the end, it should be pointed out that in 2008, equipment purchased for 19 million kunas, various equipment, but what I notice is that there are no means to disrupt the cell phone or mobile locator in that equipment. Prison guards find it hard to find, so I think the simplest thing to do is to try to install devices that will interfere with cell phones, as we did in this room at the same time, is not so impossible. In particular, this is important in the case of persons convicted of organised crime, and it is because they cannot come or threaten or harass the victim outside the system. And in the end, maybe just something about measures. So, the minister pointed out and we received some information that this report does not contain, and these are the results of the measures he took by entering into office, which are the rotations of the prison manager to detect irregularities. It's been expected a lot, we've now heard some information about criminal charges, procedures, strict procedures, etc. It will likely be in the 2009 report. But what I personally expected and in which direction was the most to go, which is to establish irregularities in approving the convenience and dismissal of prisoners as the area of the greatest corruption risk. We see from this report a very ghastly that one such irregularity has been identified in Karlovac and Split, nothing spectacular, nothing great, and that this report says that measures have been imposed to remove identified irregularities and only the law in Sisak is mentioned in relation to the administrator where the criminal proceedings have been initiated. Today it has been six months, we have no results or tight measures, no data on where the criminal proceedings have taken place, but we are likely to have as well as what the minister mentioned in the 2009 status report. And maybe what might still have been in this report, and that's the results of the action plan of the first of four months ago that are... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34530	The time has elapsed for discussion. Thank you very much. Now we're moving on to an individual debate. The first reported representative is Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34531	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. The report is great, but the situation that it describes is disappointing to me. So the report is really brilliantly lined up, more careful reading, let's just say I've even had a chance to find out that over the past year, 100 bras were bought for prisoners, so detailedly done. Since this report came from the ministry, or the government, only five things that or why I find the situation in prisons disappointing. 35% overcrowding, in closed wards 52%. So in departments where the most severe criminals are there is overcrowding 52%, if I've recorded well the percentages that the minister made. Job fill is 20% short of staff, somewhere around 2 and a half thousand people are employed, and should be about 3200, 30, 40 or so. So a significant number of people in prisons lack all profiles, not just guards, not just healthcare professionals, but all profiles. Third, accommodation conditions are bad. So the condition of buildings, walls, installation, layout of space, type of space. It's not good. It is also evident from the supervision of the guard’s actions against prisoners or convicts that there are far more serious gaps, that in the past year there have been 450 thousand overtime. That's what I calculated to be around 206 jobs, 206 people could be hired for that 450 thousand overtime hours. And here I am now in the list of stops, because this is quite enough to ask myself whether in Croatia for such a situation in prisons the sentence of prisons is pronounced and applied to be a message and a lesson that no one else is coming back to prison, so once you can, ever again or in Croatia we send people to prison to get to school, to qualify, to requalify and perfecte. But not for those manufacturing professions you offer in the workshops, but it seems to me that our prisons become a place to perfect criminals, because no one can tell me that the staff in prisons that 450 thousand hours of overtime can work equally well if they work 6 hours, 8, 10 or 12. That the staff and the prison system can be equally secure and control whether at 4 squares one prisoner or at 4 come three. So, I singled this out in just as an illustration and my fear that now I no longer understand what the function of the prison sentence in Croatia is, or did we really not go too far in sanctions when it comes to, and especially those sanctions that can be resolved differently, that we suddenly found ourselves in a situation that we lacked if I calculated well about a thousand 300 accommodation facilities already at this point. One solution is to see the situation in prisons in a public private partnership. I have two different proposals from the Minister. We built public private partnerships in sports halls, arenas that are half-empty and empty. Let's put these arenas into some useful functions now because it's more useful to turn them into prison than to have sports arenas that have billions and millions of kunas staring empty. But to joke aside, maybe we should also ask for an engagement or a bilateral agreement with one of the countries that does not have such problems, there are enough accommodation facilities because we do repeat from year to year that the situation is not good, now we have an action plan and several laws that will be discussed today, perhaps today, that all together have one problem, and I will say it in the end. This report has given me one more clue. Of the 2974 people who, with the 31st December of last year, were only sentenced to 55 for more than 20 years, from 20 to 40 years in prison. This turns out that with serious crime, we in Croatia don't really have anything to do with it. It's not the prison system, it's the other part of the judiciary. I thought the number of convicts or prisoners with a long-term prison sentence was far greater. I thought there were at least 500 of them in Croatia. I only see 55 now. According to the number of penalties imposed, the highest number of hens and bicycle thieves in Croatia seems to be. Here, I confess the bike. Second, thanks to this report, I learned that 20 prisoners continued to work with their employer during the prison sentence, and 14 of them continued to carry out their activity likely as a craftsman, craftsman, or farmer. I have to admit, it's a newspaper for me. I don't see anything wrong with that. But the question is being raised, and that's an increase of 80% in the last one compared to earlier. The point of corruption risk, the sentence of prison, and by accident, you get a prison that's in your place of residence or where the employer has a firm, so that you might accidentally approve that you continue to work with him during the execution of your sentence and so on 90 times. Or it's something else. But if he's working with his employer, then he's in prison where the employer has a seat, I guess. It's either traveling 100 kilometers or how. It might be good to see an analysis of these decisions of courts to approve such work just so we can all be sure together, remove any evil thought that it's not all very clean, but we could find out if we could see what those 90 plus 14's are. Last one. Penalty for the common good. First of all, 244 applications for the implementation of measures or work for the common good were received in 2008, and 115 were carried out. In this report, in the light of the second law, I found information that they are to be executed and punished for general good, at the time of writing this argument there are 122 others who have been sentenced to such punishment. I'm the whole time I think the problem is that there's not enough capacity, so we have only 50 contracts. Now I see you have 180 contracts. What's the problem with people? 180 legal entities have contracts with you, 180 legal persons, and 122 are waiting for them to come to their turn to execute the sentence of work for the common good. What's the feller in? What's the problem? For the punishment of work for the common good can only be replaced by a penalty of up to 6 months in prison. At this point of the trial, I will suggest that the ministers increase this, that the sentence of prison can be replaced by work for the common good, if not more, especially among young people who will be far more disciplined and more regular than a year in prison because we can break down and not fix it. So, really please give me an explanation for me and everyone here, when I understand it and all the fools will understand what the problem is. Why is the work for the general good already in place in the laws of 180 contracts not being executed in Croatia? And finally an action plan. You've convinced me that he's good and necessary and necessary. I trust you and most of you will probably back this up in Parliament. There's only one problem, I beg you. Before the budget for the next year, long ago, convince Minister Shuker and Prime Minister, because without money you are aware or you will get professional personnel, and these laws require a solid number of people as well as in the prison system, nor capacity anything. Not even if you secure the money. In 2010, 2011, 2012, no action plan, no new laws and no judicial reform, all to a large amount of new legislation and nothing else. Money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34532	Thank you very much. The next registered representative is Ivo Grbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34533	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The Administration of the Prison System is set up as a single administrative organisation within the Ministry of Justice. The central office includes all penitentiary facilities, prisons and the Centre for the Education of Prison Services. According to the report submitted, 4000 734 prisoners continued to increase in the prison population during 2008, with an increase of 444 prisoners, i.e. an increase of 10.3%, respectively, in the prison system on 31 December 2008. The accommodation facilities of prisons and penitentiary in 2008 increased by 84 seats, with 3 thousand 351 seats, making the overcrowding of the prison system a major problem and is 136%. This problem is particularly expressed in closed-type penitentiaries and all prisons of 151.9%. The overcrowding of prison contributes to a high rate of detainees who at the end of 2008 were a thousand 354 and 28.6% of the total prison population, respectively. This large share of detainees in the total prison population is significantly higher than most of the European Community's transition countries. Despite the overcrowding of the prison system, however, the very demanding and risky structure of the prison population and the continuing lack of prison officials, both in the insurance business and in the treatment business and in the healthcare of prisoners, in 2008, satisfactory safety indicators were recorded so that there were fewer suicides, attempts at suicide, self-harming prisoners, attacks on officials, fugitives and attempted escape. It is interesting to note that during 2008, a significant number of 647 prisoners refused to take food prepared in prison and penitentiary compared to 2007 when 256 prisoners refused prison food. Increased rejection of prison food certainly results in dissatisfaction with accommodation conditions due to overcrowding. Furthermore, in the annual report, specific references were made to the report of the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman for children on the situation in the prison system, with a detailed representation of the rights of the prisoners and the achievement of their laundry protection, which specifically analysed the complaints and representations of the prisoners, and claims for compensation for damages. The report shall also show in particular the administrative and inspection controls as well as the quotas carried out by the administrator, the situation established and the measures taken. As a whole, the report shows that the most significant problems arise from the overcrowding of the penitentiary and prison and that, in such a situation, it is necessary to assess the permanent supervision of the Central Office of the Department of Prison System of the Ministry of Justice over the consistent application of the law and other legal provisions and to take measures to remove irregularities, the education of officials in relation to the treatment of a special group of perpetrators of criminal offences with elements of violence, crimes against sexual freedom and leniency, abuse of drug abuse and the like, and also with these groups of prisoners, special programmes are carried out at their rehabilitation and socialisation. More penitentiary and prisons improve the conditions of accommodation of prisoners and are working on building new accommodation facilities in prison in Zagreb, prison in Varazdin, penitentiary in Glina as well as building a new penitentiary near Sibenik. Food is produced for the own needs of the prison system, which significantly reduces budget costs and enables prisoners to work. Inmates who are persons with disabilities who provide suitable accommodation should be taken into account, in particular, the prominent setting-up of a viral hepatitis and HIV counselling facility involving 4000 800 prisoners who have voluntarily joined the test as well as the taking of educational, prevention and treatment measures for sick prisoners. In order to define the necessary measures to improve the situation in the prison system and bring it into line with European standards, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted, at its meeting on 19 June 2009, an Action Plan for the improvement of the prison system of the Republic of Croatia from 2009 to 2014, which includes an increase in the accommodation conditions of prisoners, new employment, modernisation and acquisition of necessary equipment and the reorganisation of the prison system administration in order to establish a sampling system, all of which is tax-based with the provision of the amount of the necessary funds per year and within the deadlines set. In my view, I support the report on the state and work of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions for 2008 as well as the Action Plan for the improvement of the prison system of the Republic of Croatia from 2009 to 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34534	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that at 17 hours and 40 minutes, it is time for the individual debate to be called into question, so we still have two discussions to hear. The first of those two last ones is the respected representative of Brankica Crljenko.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34535	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In my debate on this report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions for 2008 I will address the problem of protecting the rights of children whose parents are in prison or exercising the rights of the child to meet and associate with the parents who are serving the prison sentence. A child whose parents are siblings, grandparents, or other close ones in prison experience the world and themselves in a special way. It faces unpleasant emotions, different environmental reactions and only shows different reactions. The separation from parents for the maintenance of prison sentences is a circumstance that should involve more bodies, institutions and systems in order to protect the child. European data suggests that 7% of school children have parents who have been or have been in prison. 33% of minors and 61% of women in prison are parents and women in prison account for 4% of the total prison population, more specifically in Croatia 4.7%. The needs of children whose parents are in prison will be analysed on the basis of European experiences and evaluations of existing standards for the protection of these groups of children in Croatia. In practice, unfortunately, we often encounter reactions and minimalize the importance of contact between children and parents in prison. There are opinions that this is an irrelevant topic in relation to the problems of over-recipients, lack of employees, under-investment in prisons or that it is not a good prison space to make it attractive to a child because it will begin to be considered a place of attraction. But the children of the prisoners are an unrecognizable group of children in society often discriminated over the status of their parents and are directly punished for other people’s misdemeanors, separated from loved ones or in fear of parents. The indicator that the children of the prisoners and their needs are not recognized is the fact that in the Penal Code, the child is not mentioned in an article that defines family members but is referred to as relatives in a flat line. The sentence refers to the reasons for the postponement of the sentence. The reasons for the rearing are a child under a year old who is cared for by the convict. In an article on the protection of motherhood against pregnancy, the child was born during the maintenance of the prison sentence. Finally, about visits to the prisoner and the possibility of underage children visiting their parents and the possibility and equipment of a place to visit children. We can talk about kids in prison and kids out of prison. Children in prison are children who were born during their mother’s detention period and under the Law on the execution of prison sentences can be with their mothers up to three years of age. The only delivery department in Pozega Penitentiary has been assessed by the Office of the Child's Attorney General as comfortable and suitable for the birth of children, but in a social and developmental sense, too, for which mothers are responsible and who do not use the possibility of leaving the child in a nearby kindergarten as they are allowed. There are many more children outside of prison who are affected in different ways by the stay of one or both parents in prison. There's no record of an exact number of children whose parents are in prison. About 4000 621 prisoners are currently in Croatian prisons and penitentiary facilities. According to unofficial data, there are now about 6 thousand and 7 children separated from parents in prison or detention but prison system experts estimate that there are fewer children. No children are listed here whose brothers or sisters are in educational institutions or juvenile prisons. One way is also to structure visits so that they are focused on the child and the relationship of parents and children through more humanised spatial conditions and fostering joint activities, not conversations between adults. Professional support before, during and after the visit also contributes to maintaining relations. Some countries are focused on foster care being made near prisons. There are other children’s services, support centres, place of play inside the prison, or there are co-ordinators for several prisons that care primarily about the contacts of children and parents in prison. The involvement of volunteers and supervisors experts is also one option. The most important thing is the joint interaction between both the police and the judicial system, courts, institutions of social care, NGOs with programmes of psychosocial treatment of prisoners and support of children, schools and kindergartens and volunteers who help children prisoners. Since we cannot ignore the experience and perception of prisoners and others, it is necessary to explain the extent of contact with children’s rights and the extent to which it is related to convenience. Namely, the rules on the benefits of prisoners define the convenience as a set of incentive measures aimed at maintaining and promoting relations with the family, and among other things consisting of more frequent contact with the outside world. We are sure that, with clear explanations and transparent practice, not just calling for norms, misunderstandings and misunderstandings would be removed. On the other hand, prison conditions, especially in the case of longer prison sentences, should be treated as changed circumstances so that the scope and manner of meeting and association should be adapted to new circumstances in the life of the family in order to be in the interest of the child. In fact, there is often no professional support for families whose members are in prison, especially those with whom the child lives. We are sure that implementing developed programs, strengthening the parental competence of prisoners would create in many situations conditions for supporting the relationship between children and parents in prison and affect future family life and relationships. With regard to prisoners who have children, especially those accused of domestic violence, I consider it important for the wider context of child development, not just for contact with parents, to conduct a psychosocial treatment that is an important part of the prevention of violence, and often a prerequisite for maintaining the relationship between children and parents. It is therefore necessary to support all training initiatives of experts for this type of treatment, as well as the activity of existing trained about 640 police experts, social care, state attorneys, courts, health care, NGOs, and the planning of additional education according to the Society of Psychological Assistance data. When we talk about the state of human rights in the prison system of the Republic of Croatia, it is constantly pointing to the need to take additional efforts to raise human rights standards in the prison system. And every day we hope to improve the rights of prisoners, aware that a child cannot escape the reality of his growing up and that he should be referred to the responsibility of adults for his decisions and behavior. At the same time, he should know that his parents did not stop being parents because of their conduct and conflict with the law, nor should a child be punished for being punished. It also needs the support of adults. It is necessary to always manage the principle of child welfare and to further improve the spatial conditions for contact of children and parents so that prison is not a scary place for a child and that it is possible for a parent, despite being a prisoner and breaking the law, to achieve his parental role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34536	Thank you very much. I guess I went a little bit too far when I announced that we'd hear two debates yet, because the last one reported for debate is not in the hall. Therefore, individual debates are over. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the final word will be taken by Justice Minister Dr Ivan Simonovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34537	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank you, distinguished MPs and advocates for a very constructive and useful discussion. Although the formulation was often different, the content was very similar and pointed to interrelated problems. We all find that the situation in the prison system is unsatisfactory and that we need reliable measures and mechanisms to improve it. There were a whole series of useful suggestions, some of which may be embedded in the methodology of the next year's report, and some may react already now, especially when amending the Probation Act. As far as information is concerned, many representatives in their discussion have warned of the dangers of infection in prisons, HIV and hepatitis B and C. Indeed, the total number of people infected in prisons is very large and the situation is alarming. However, there is just one project that shows that we infected are already in prison and what is being done is that we actually use the stay of the infected in prison, to identify the infected in a faster and cheaper way, so they were tested and carried out in, in fact, from a medical point of view, ideal conditions of treatment and treatment where the infected are under arrest and supervision 24 hours a day. That's the kind of project that's going on right now. We wrote something about him on page 54 of the report. I can tell you that it is implemented with foreign assistance and that the Croatian budget is charged with only 1/3 of the necessary amounts with this project. It means complete testing of all who enter prisons and complete treatment and treatment of all who are infected. A whole series of further useful warnings were of particular importance to the criminal policy which should also be changed as a dam to an excessive number of prison residents. I can report that preparations for the new Penal Code where this will take into account the good and I would only mention once again that the task force working on the new Penal Code has accepted the suggestion to be fully open and transparent in its work. And I inform you that on the Justice Department's website at any time you can actually enter the current state of text which is still being prepared by the working group of the new Penal Code and at any time every citizen, and not only a parliamentary representative can direct some of his suggestions, criticisms and ideas. There was talk of detention. Indeed, we have 28% of the prison population as prisoners. It is as was said it is above the average of European states. That percentage fell from last year by two percent, but it is still large and should take measures to reduce it. I can say that in this sense it was discussed that it was a three-way meeting between the Supreme Court president, the state's attorney and me as justice minister. The special protection of the children of the prisoners is a completely legitimate and justified subject. Creating a sampling system will contribute significantly to solving this problem more successfully. In fact, the sampling system pays special attention not only to the person who is in the support of the punishment but also to its social environment. In this regard, sensitivity to children’s problems is of particular importance. Finally as a conclusion. Clearly, there are no changes without political will and without financial resources. I therefore again call on respected MPs to support the action plan with the authority of their vote, which is a higher degree of consent, this will be a stronger commitment both to these and to each other's governments in implementing the action plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34538	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I hereby conclude the debate on the 2008 report on the state and operation of penitentiary offices, prisons and educational institutions. We will vote on this report when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34539	Second, Report on the State and Labour of Penalties, Prisons and Educational Institutions for 2008, applicant: Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. Report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions for 2008 is hereby adopted; 2. The Action Plan for the improvement of the prison system of the Republic of Croatia from 2009 to 2014 is hereby adopted." Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I also find that the report has been accepted and these conclusions with 77 votes in favour, no abstentions and 25 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34540	Now we're going to the last debate today. In accordance with Article 223(3), I will propose a joint debate on the third, fourth and fifth points of this consolidated agenda. So we're going to discuss -- the proposal for a law on probation, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 332 - Final draft law amending and supplementing the law on the execution of prison sentences, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 372 - Proposal for a law on the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences and offences, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 367 The draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal for a law on probation shall apply to the proposal for a law on the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences and infringements to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law and to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the execution of a prison sentence shall be subject to an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 161. Rules of Procedure. This urgent process combines the first and second readings of this final bill and amendments to it can be submitted until the end of today's debate. Discussions on these proposals and this final proposal were carried out by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received reports from those committees at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the proposal, these proposals? Here, Mr. Justice Minister Dr. Ivan Shimonović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34541	I thank the chairman. I'll be brief. A legal package containing three laws: probation, execution of prison sentences and enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors is an integral part of the reform package I spoke of. The law on probation is certainly the most important. The trial is a regime of supervised freedom during which professional procedures are conducted aimed at reducing the risk of the perpetrator committing a crime again. In a practical sense, the introduction of testing means fewer people in prisons and thus better conditions in existing capacities. But a successful sampling system also means a better assessment of security risks, which means that it is even less wrong in who is being released and when it is being released on supervised freedom. The sampling system will carry out an expert assessment of the perpetrators of a criminal offence with an assessment of the risk to be used by the court when deciding whether detention is necessary and when deciding on the penalty. The executing judge shall decide to suspend and suspend the sentence of the prison system in the time of approval of the convenience and exits, and the Committee for Procedural Dismission and the warden of the prison on the occasion of a decision on the parole of the prisoners. The further important task of testing is to monitor the execution of the measure of house arrest and of the dismissed perpetrator. But the trial doesn't come down exclusively to supervised freedom. It also includes the implementation of specific professional procedures and programmes during supervised freedom, which reduces the risk of the perpetrator repeating the work. Organized to provide assistance and support after release from prison for the purpose of easier inclusion in society. And finally intervening in the settlement and repair of damage done by a criminal offence, and organising assistance and support for the victim of a crime and her family. The adoption of the Prosecution Act introduces a system that is more humane and socially cheaper. It's more humane because it protects society's safety with fewer people in prisons. It's cheaper socially because international experience shows that the introduction of a sampling system leads to a more rare recurrence of criminal acts. Finally, on a longer period after the purchase of the necessary equipment and education, the probation system is also cheaper financially. One day of supervised freedom is usually three times cheaper than one day spent in prison. We move to another law, amendments and additions to the Penal Code. They are proposed to adapt the maintenance of prison sentences to the establishment of a probation system to modernise and adapt to the standards of the European Union and to establish more objective and transparent criteria for the decision-making of competent authorities in the exercise of penalties. The most important changes include prescribing a minimum sustained prison sentence as a minimum criterion for approving the use of the benefits of exiting closed conditions, which is in fact a alignment with the previous legal understandings of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Strengthening the legal protection of prisoners and the role of judges in the protection of their rights, the professional criteria for deciding on the penitentiary, i.e. the prison in which the prisoner will be referred after processing for further maintenance of the sentence, on the transfer to minor conditions of enforcement, and on conditional dismissal. Notifying the victim of a criminal offence about the release of the perpetrator, which reduces risks, particularly highlighted in domestic violence, and finally prescribing the taking of biological material of prisoners for DNA analysis and setting up a database of perpetrators of criminal offences. Finally, the third law, the Law on the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences and offences, is proposed because Croatia has so far had no law to regulate the subject matter of the enforcement of juvenile sanctions. The basic specificities of this law are greater respect for the specificities and protection of the juvenile population based on contemporary penological concepts. This law guarantees, among other minors, the confidentiality of identity data, including data on the fact that the maintenance of the sentence can only be made available to the authorities responsible for detecting and persecuting the perpetrators of criminal offences. That the process of carrying out juvenile sanctions and actions should not endanger human dignity especially in view of the need to act on minors. In order to implement sanctions and measures in an individualised manner adapted to the risks and needs of minors, assistance and support after discharge, so after the end of the sentence, that is to say, sanctions to ensure their successful integration into the social community, and when it comes to juvenile prisons, a longer stay in the air and a more frequent visit to family members than the minors. Dear MPs and MPs, this is where the prison system's reform patent is rounded up. In such a short time, I could only indicate his basics. For all further explanations, my associates and I are at your disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34542	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate on these three legal proposals. We're going to a club debate. Clubs will have 20 minutes to discuss, with that if any of the clubs so require that flight changes are possible, that is, within those 20 minutes it is possible for 2 or more club representatives to take a word. We are starting with the SDP club, the respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34543	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club supports the draft law on probation and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code. However, speaking of the proposal for a law on probation, I will point out again that a good law also requires great resources. Here one projection is seen in the assessment of the resources needed, however, I note that in 2009 only 4 million were provided for this purpose, it took 10 million and the rebalancing took away 2 million kuna. Therefore, here, while we were expecting a Croatian term, we must be proud of our Croatian legal history, so it is a shame that the promoter did not find an adequate expression for this notion of international probation. The public doesn't know what a rehearsal is, or thinks it's some new wetlands that I don't know what's gonna make it easier. It is only in this law that all that exists in our legal system is united, and these are conditional judgments with protective supervision and work for the common good. There is this work for the general good therefore on the loose, conditional discharge, supervision of the enforcement of precautions and implementation of the last obligations and measures with regard to house arrest and the conditional release itself. So these are all institutes that state the court based on the Penal Code. Now these measures are united, and their execution has united. How are we gonna do that? Why hasn't the court done that before? Why was the court to a greater extent not executing, giving a conditional sentence with protective supervision and working for the common good at large? Because the Government has not provided implementing regulations and means where and how will this be implemented? So since when do we have house arrest? We introduced this with the latest amendments in 2003 to the Law on Criminal Procedure and since then it has not been applied at all. I don't know how many courts, do they even apply it. Six years old, some institutes are old, some are always over. And they are not carried out, the courts would gladly say, they know the situation in the criminal system and these convicts and deserve such measures because they are more adequate to do their crime than to put them in prison. But no conditions were secured. Now it's done more or less well on paper, even though we have certain remarks. But no funds are secured and this will again remain a dead letter on paper. And then it's like something's being done and it's not working. We have verbal improvements, and we don't accept or apply what the law says. Here in the Penal Code, the basic condition does not apply, what must be provided by all international conventions to a prisoner of a particular cubic space that a prisoner must have in prison. This is not guaranteed, and further measures of some promotion are foreseen. So, the prison system everywhere needs funds, and here they are more than necessary. However, here is also something in terms of concrete remarks. We see here that probational jobs are of special interest to the Republic of Croatia. Well, when that's where the financial resources didn't come in. For golf courses that are also of interest, it is now otherwise modern in every law to make it all of a special interest. So if the golf course is of particular interest and probational affairs and some other more important business in the plain, in a level with the golf course, then that special interest of the Republic of Croatia loses any meaning, let alone a special meaning. What I'd like to say in particular is that we're setting up a special administration in this law of probation. There will be at least 70 new employees. There will be a new official for that. It's a huge, huge asset. So, what can possibly be secured, it will eat the salaries of the employees themselves. The truth is I say, I repeat good things cost, but it was necessary to provide much more financial resources to make conditional judgments, conditional convictions for protective... , house arrest as well as really good measures that our criminal system long ago revived. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But there's something that can't possibly survive, so I'm asking the Prime Minister's representative to consider this very carefully. Therefore, when the programme does not satisfy that the convict, or who is on probation with protective supervision, does not carry out certain measures, it will therefore give the executive body, because this is the administration that is nothing more than an integral part of the executive authority, it shall initiate proceedings before the court. That for the first time in our criminal system, we have the possibility that the executive body will appear as some kind of party in front of a criminal court. We've never had that before. We had a judicial body in a broader sense, it was a state's attorney, a prosecutor as he once was called, and we have a defendant and his attorney. We never had an executive body to appear before a criminal court. So it will take, in this sense, as it has been so far in the prison system to notify the court, and then the court by official duty, or you inform the state's attorney. He can't still know he's in court. Something else seems to me to be great, I think it would be a relief, because it is a great procedure for the minister himself and a great responsibility that I am determining the measures that will be. So, the content of these measures. We know that agglosaxon law is very rich and imaginative, it gives the judge that power, and it's easier to give the judge that freedom than to one executive body. That's not what I'm saying now, ad personam, I'm saying in that sense that the system must be objective in everyday... combination. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, to give the Minister in his imagination to discuss what precautions would be taken, that is, how they will be carried out, how protective surveillance and working on the common good will be carried out, so which works he can do in fact, which he does not. I don't think it's necessary for the minister, that at least some hints should be filled out in the law, and that the minister just worked it out. This would make it easier for the executive government to work, and it would also be a security in all of this. And a few words about the Penal Code. We know that when the Penal Code was passed that he was indeed a few years ago, so back in 2002, that is, in 2001 when he was brought in, there was a big step forward, we introduced a judge of execution as a controller. Unfortunately, rather than having worked out a judge's execution, it always seems that the major failings in his supervision were more than the officers did, the healers in the prison system itself. Of course, because they're overloaded. One more sentence. It is unfortunate that the possibility of politicizing the prison system has been reintroduced in some way, because the knowledge of the system and the very specific knowledge that has been sought for the director... any penitentiary and prison has been abandoned in previous changes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, these improvements that are foreseen here in the Penal Code we support, but we expect and about this perhaps the final proposal is, this is the final bill of law, but in any case think about a good solution, because the security of the prison system is carried by the leaders, and most of all by those who have experience in the prison system, which is not enough to pass just, to have high professional equipment, but by people who are sensitized and have specific knowledge from... The system. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] I think it's very good for the prison system. Think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34544	Thank you very much. Here's the reuse of 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34545	Here's what I had to do for my 10 minutes. I'll say a few words about this law on the execution of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences and violations. First of all, I would like to say that I am glad that this law has arrived in the parliamentary procedure after many years of waiting for this law and in any case some things are regulated here in that law. What is our key problem in society, which is what we do to make as few children as possible in any prisons or nursing homes, so what to do is that these children don't actually come to a stage where then it's very questionable that we can move on with them, to get them on the right path or we need a lot more energy and money and effort and the efforts to make these children some quality citizens of this society. The fact is that the data and state's attorneys and the MUP show us unfortunately in the last few years the growth of young people who are perpetrators of crime or crime, but also increased violence among young people, so I would just like to point out that compared to crimes against life and the body is a visible increase of 19.48% compared to 2007. So this is the 2008 data. The fact is also very often, I will not say it daily, but very often we can read in the paper certain articles that speak about the situation among young people and about a number of so young people who are extremely aggressive. You have an example. A knife instead of a pen, before school hit a boy, a little girl beat up her grandmother, a six-year-old for two days beating a boy, a boy with a shoe on his head over a game of Wordcraft, then for example. He's only 12 years old and he's shooting and he's robbing the city. A boy's basketball player broke his leg and jaw, in Zadar the young don't come out without a knife. So, a number of inscriptions that say that we have a number of young people who are extremely aggressive who are able to cause serious physical harm to others to some that are able to kill. And the question is why is that? Definitely these kids aren't born as murderers. Somewhere we have sinned as adults, the family has sinned in their education, and now we have to house them either in penitentiary facilities or in educational institutions. Unfortunately, too, the figures that show children who consume alcohol and drugs are also on an extremely large scale and what may be the most significant, which is to reduce age-limits both for those who commit crimes and for those who enter the area of alcohol users or drug addicts. And what is shown in fact is that somewhere in our family's control function is one piece of information, that in 2007, more than 50% of the children that the police found behind midnight were out in disco clubs or on the road, so more than 50% of them were out there with the consent of their parents. So our fundamental question of what to do in society so that we don't actually come into a position like this that we have to use. But unfortunately for that part of the kids, we need a law like this. Definitely underage perpetrators of criminal and criminal offences are victims, victims of the family, victims of an environment in which they lived and have their rights. But we must also ensure the right of others to a safe life. So we have to ensure a safe life for those kids who go out into the nights and disco clubs and who want to go home to their parents alive and healthy, not to think about whether someone out of a wasteful mood and boredom is going to beat them to death. The problem is, I think we recognize risk families quite late. All those who work with children, so who are the perpetrators of certain crimes or crimes, say that actually when they look at their life story, long ago someone should have reacted. Unfortunately, at the moment when they come to nursing homes, then the work of experts is so I say a very limited range. It is important for us to have certain preventive programs. There are preventive programs that have produced good results so far. Unfortunately, many of them did not find funding in the state budget. I'm sorry that this year, in a year which is a crisis for the economy, we started saving primarily on children. So in the last rebalancing of 4 million kunas, we downloaded precisely on projects to prevent child and young people's risk management. I think the kids are the last ones we need to save on, because actually preventive programs are the stake in not spending a lot of money on working with kids today, which I say once again has limited range. The question is, what about the relapsers? What about those children who are relapsers who in several times are able to repeat a certain crime or offence. It is definitely necessary for them to have specially adapted programs, but to do one system that will be more effective in protecting other children. We had one thematic session of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports where we had just discussed and what to do with those children who were repeaters of criminal acts. How in some way do I say move away and protect those others from jeopardizing them, because here is only one case that is well known in public. At the time of one crime that ended in a death, young Luke Ric. His perpetrators are still awaiting a conviction, but unfortunately they are at large. And in the meantime, some other kids got beat up by the same thugs. Therefore, our question of how to protect the rights of children who are perpetrators of criminal acts, but how, on the other hand, do we protect other children that they can live normally and that they are not afraid that such a crime will be committed again? Of course, it is also extremely important for the judiciary to work without delay and to impose sanctions as quickly as possible, because every sanction imposed with a long delay in time actually has one very bad message for these young people. So they are both children and minors I don't know what we're going to call them and how we call them all in this legal system of ours. But in any case, they're people who need to know that they have to wear sequencings for their behavior. So, they must also be sent a message with all the treatments they need and psychosocial and often, perhaps some psychiatric treatments, but in any case they need to send a certain message, which is that they have to carry conjectures for their behavior and that their behavior that endangers other people's lives is simply something that is unacceptable. And for this reason, the pronunciation of certain sanctions by the judiciary within a very short period of time is extremely important. Because if this procedure lasts long, then they get a message that they're allowed to do anything and that no one can and simply no one is responsible for what he did, which is an extremely bad message. I'd just like to say here that we have a lot of mental health professionals that we're missing, we don't have enough, unfortunately we don't have enough even child psychiatrists who can help children with certain disorders of that kind. Unfortunately, we only have one children's specialized psychiatric hospital in Croatia. That's the one in Kukuljevic's. Unfortunately, all other wards of child psychiatry in many hospitals have been abolished and our children unfortunately often wait for months to come to some treatment which also extends the possibility of their recovery and their recovery. And in the end, I'd like to say that definitely in our foster homes there is a need for some restructuring. It can no longer be done the way it was done 20 or 30 years ago. Today, conditions are different and I think that we should work on the example of some European countries, which means in smaller groups, in smaller groups and separate children in the way that the profession can best work with them. So, this law is a law that will certainly contribute to children's perpetrators, so minors who commit crimes and crimes have certain rights and certain protections, but also have a certain degree of professional treatment, professional assistance to get out of trouble as soon as possible. But what is extremely important is that what does not apply at this time to you in the judiciary but to some other systems, and education and social care systems is prevention and very early identification of risk families from which such children can arise I don't think it's a problem to detect, just here I think that everyone who works with children should be focused on detecting and aiding those children as soon as possible and then we'll have fewer problems in your system with penalties and execution of penalties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34546	Thank you very much. We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the HDZ club, the distinguished representative Ana Lovrin will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34547	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This is because the debate is united I will begin by saying that the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of these laws and this Law on the Prosecution and Law on the execution of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences and first reading violations and the Final Proposal for a Law on the execution of prison sentences. The justice reform strategy and, above all, the action plan with the justice reform strategy in the system of full judicial reform and then the reform of criminal law and the prison system is foreseen to adopt these laws. And here I commend and again the ministry that everything is on time because the action plan was set as the fourth quarter of 2009, which means that in the final decision or final draft of the law I guess we'll get already in the fall and that'll be in the third quarter, so before the deadline. It is true that, there were questions about the Law on Testing whether it is the best expression, whether we have a Croatian term, something was questionable and debated whether it would be a test because it would be some kind of translation of this word, perhaps or the Law on Oversighted Freedom, as the minister said it was actually about supervised freedom. But anyway, the rest of it is about this international, I'd say term, and today we have before us a proposal for a law on probation. It is true that it has already been said here that this is actually one set of these sanctions that already existed in the Croatian legal system in other laws. I have remained irresponsible, but I suppose there are some reasons why then and the recently passed Law on the execution of the fine for the general good and the conditional convictions imposed in the infringement procedure are not actually united here in this law that treats the whole probation system. And here's the difference between a minister who said first why and what's good with this law on probation that it's going to drive out prison facilities. They will, it's expected, at least about 300 people that will be less burdened by the prison system but I personally wouldn't put it in the first place. I would first and at the first breakthrough of the adoption of this law on probation actually put protection to the public, reduction of the number of relapsers, easier resociation, avoidance of so-called. criminal infections by not referring to the perpetrators of minor crimes, also in view of the circumstances of initiation, so-called random perpetrators of criminal offences, unknown consequences of protected good, humanisation of the execution of penalties for all those who are not repetitive and leaving prison sentences only for long-term sentences, reference to prisons and to risk perpetrators and to perpetrators who repeat the conduct of criminal offences. Also, as a major gain of the adoption of this law, I consider an assessment of the security risks that will enable and I would not say that to facilitate both the judge's enforcement and the judge who conducts the criminal proceedings not to make it easier than to provide him with a better basis for his decision on the choice of punishment, on the reference and selection of prisons, or on the decision of detention. Also, it was said that there was also a home prison, so instead of detention the home prison was supervised, that there was so far in the Croatian legal system in the Criminal Procedure Act exactly that it existed but could not be applied because it seemed to me that there was no sublegal act on the basis of which the measure could be implemented and it was not for a very simple reason, because it was demanding surveillance, it requires additional and significant involvement of the police and when that measure was included in the law and when the laws were not provided, there was no consideration of where it would be paid. Even today, when we talk critically about making some laws and actually cutting the budget on those items and not providing funds, I agree that the same thing is insufficient, but it was also there some time ago in 2001 when the prison standards were established on very high European standards, higher than many European countries have, but neither were the capacities provided nor the funds to allow for the implementation of that law, so we are dragging it from 2001, here we are now and until 2009. And so to conclude, there's a law on first-reading probation. I also think that we should consider these sublegal acts by the second reading. I think they're left behind, quite a wide-ranging arrangement is left behind, and I wouldn't tell the Minister it's irrelevant, but it's the regulation of sublegal acts, and I think maybe some more detailed provisions should be included in the law, and then leave the rules for it to be discussed. As regards the collateral, they are provided and indicated how much should be in the action plan as well. There is an estimated 11 million kuna for the execution of that law. This is as much as the civil servants now, about 300 on the basis of an act contract, doing these jobs, therefore as some additional occupation and for which 11 million kunas are provided today, and it is estimated that approximately 70 permanent employees in the future Department of Prosecution under the Ministry of Justice will be the necessary amount. As far as the Prison Penalty Act is concerned, it's as we've already heard it passed in '99. with one significant change in 2001 that has established these today's standards and the ones we find difficult to achieve. It's 4 square meters and 10 cubic meters per person deprived of liberty. Therefore, it is applied but not quite because what has been studied has not been followed by sufficient means. The amendments to this law were in 2007. They went in the direction of serving conditions for the benefits of exits regulated by the rights of prisoners. In accordance with human rights standards, secured health care on the burden of health insurance. The provisions on visits to the penitentiary are more clearly defined, depending on visitors' persons, the beating of prisoners in the media. The freedom of telephonery is limited, in particular for the protection of victims of a criminal offence or the possible organisation of further criminal offences from a prison or a penitentiary. The control of the introduction of money into prison and the restriction of spending money has been introduced. Cases of extraordinary dating have been limited to strictly specific cases. Today, we have before us a proposal for a law with a final proposal which primarily goes in the direction of harmonisation of the provisions of the Law on the execution of prisons with the relevant laws, in particular the Law on Prosecution, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on the execution of sanctions imposed on minors in criminal and criminal proceedings. So, as we said, in the execution of prison sentences other than capacity building itself, it is necessary to introduce a series of measures to burden the system and then also to treat for the prevention of relapses, we have already talked about this, and resociation measures. The most significant newspaper in this law seems to me to be the most significant establishment of the prisoner's right to contact the judge on his own in respect of the respect of his rights and to be provided in this direction with judicial protection, so he can fully communicate with the judge. Additional professional criteria have also been laid down for determining the penitentiary when sending convicts to hold sentences or relocate convicts. It is also a newspaper in Article 131, which lays down the conditions for the convenience of exits and conditional releases to the severity of penalties imposed. Since it is mainly about compliance with the relevant laws, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports this final bill and we also support and exclude biological material for DNA analysis. We only have one question about that provision against those prisoners who already execute the sentence on the day of entry into force of this law. And finally, the third law of this package, which is the Law on the execution of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences and offences. For the time being, this issue has been partially regulated in the Law on Juvenile Courts, but it has been regulated by the rules adopted under the law and which have remained in force, and it has been passed under a law that has long since been in force, i.e. which has been put out of force. And that's why we think it's good and that this matter needs to be regulated by a special law because it's a vulnerable population, a population that deserves special attention and care because maybe it's still time to save itself and resocialize it in a way that becomes a useful and full member of our society. After all, this population also enjoys special constitutional protection. Therefore, this law, apart from the principles laid down so far by the Law on Juvenile Courts, determines the procedure, all actions for the start and the course of enforcement of sanctions. The law separates jurisdiction over the execution of sanctions, hence the measures of increased concern, the daily stay in the educational institution at the centre of education is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, and the measures of enforcement of sanctions in the educational prison and in the educational institution and juvenile prison are within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice. Here we heard it was detailed about the measures, that is, what this law regulates. Therefore, the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors and minors, jurisdiction, fundamental rights of minors to be protected, confidentiality of data, etc. etc. What I'm particularly doubting here is that there's no such thing as that again. Please make sure that you do not remain well-written again, which in practice will not be implemented for a simple reason because there will be no capacity and resources. So, as we have seen in the report on the situation in prisons and penitentiary, there is a shortage except for officials, prison officials mainly of those professions which are obviously missing in the labour market or those professions that cannot be obtained on the labour market for wages in the state administration. These are in the case of prison doctors, mostly psychiatrists, etc. Given the so-called provisions of the Law on Juveniles, that's what needs to be done. This will definitely require additional employment, i.e. the involvement of these experts. Furthermore, Article 14 states that a minor can be temporarily placed in an institution of social care and a legal person who is registered and fulfils the prescribed conditions for carrying out social care activities in the field of youth education and work. So, this is if the Centre for Social Work estimates that the conditions in the family are not improved, or that they are so bad that it is not good for a minor to return to that family. I warn you that we still have these problems today, that the protégés of the Center for Breeding are very often, after 18 years of age and completed school, simply stopping him from staying in that facility. So, I wouldn't want to be rude and say that he gets thrown out on the street without a job, no means to live, no existence. This provision is only good to make sure that it can be implemented. Here's what we think is that this law is one shift forward, that it's good that this matter is solved by law, not by sublegal acts, and therefore we support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34548	Thank you very much. One correction has been reported incorrectly, but the resignation of a registered representative. Therefore, we continue the debate on behalf of the clubs. I give the word on behalf of the HNS club to the esteemed representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34549	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Since we didn't know, Mr. Vice President, that you would connect these three points here, that we would have a united discussion of fellow Beus who was in charge of two of the three laws he went to one meeting and I begged him to try to return. So he wouldn't do it because I'm only going to talk about the Prosecution Act, then I'm going to do just a few sentences in an individual debate regarding the Penal Code. As far as the Probation Act is concerned, I don't think anyone in this assembly will be against that law. It's a good idea. The model's just as good. A British model has been selected. The only question is, of course, whether this model is fully adaptable to our country's conditions in the European southeast with significantly different cultural and other traditions. But let us hope that it will be good, and we hope that this law will clearly achieve those goals for which we bring it. So I'd like to start with the four fundamental objectives that you set out in the opening statement, which is that the new probationary system is being co-operated with the community first to protect the public. That's different. Reduced the risk of relapsing the third and to ensure respect for the rights and needs of the fourth victim. Unfortunately, by reading these 8 pages of the opening argument, and the law itself did not receive all the answers we expected in connection with these four basic goals. There's a little bit more information somewhere, it's not, so I'm going to at least list some of them right now. The amendments, of course, we didn't give because this is the first reading. I think it's good to go with the first reading, very well, because clearly during the period until the second reading, there's a lot to be fixed and we think that's why it's a really good decision to do so. The first question concerns the expected results, page four. Reduce the number of detainees by about 300 a year and ease the problem of overcrowding the prison system. In fact, if we take the information that you Mr. Minister said about 10% is increasing the number of people in our prisons every year, which means that from the current 4600 in a year the number is going to increase to over 5,000. So, every year, 400 or more prisoners will increase, and 300 of us want to cut the number. This means that there will still be no reduction, but there will be a weaker increase in the number of prisoners after our calculations, which will continue to mean that prisons will be overcrowded because they will not reduce the speed or pace of the number of prisoners. That's one piece of information. Secondly, the table at the bottom of the second page and the tables at the top of the fourth page I don't think there's much to comment on why the data listed on the first table is repeated as number and share, the percentage of detainees. Later that number and percentage only dismember. Nothing changes. We didn't get the message. Then, page six. At present, there are no accompanying services which would provide the judge with the verified information necessary for the decision-making process and organise and monitor the performance of the last obligations during the probation period established by the conditional discharge decision. However, at the top of this page, we see that in the period from 2002 to 2007, the number of those who were under protective supervision from the initial 52 2002 to 252 2006 and 180 2007, so 4 to 5 times increased, and the work for the general good in 2002 was only 16 to increase by 20 times in 2007, which means that even then the judges went boldly with these and such decisions, proposals, regardless of the service. Could you comment on that a little bit, because that's important. So we had no services, no data, no professional data, and yet they significantly increased the number of those who served a clear penalty by working for the common good. I'm saying, I'm not going to let the amendments be individual now that we're going to give up later, if there are certain changes, then we'll clearly give up on them, if not, then we'll let you know on the second reading what we want to ask you to do. But allow me just a few more words about what I said at the outset. Namely, the sampling system requires killing one co-ordination of a series of services and is a very serious system. Unfortunately, in Croatia we cannot talk too much about systematicity because we are neither systematic in the work, in the implementation of work obligations, in the application of laws, regulations, etc. And there she always doubts whether such a complex system that requires maximum coordination of many services will be successful or not. What you said to the Ministers in the opening statement that there has been a rotation of certain officials who have not done the right thing, followed the rule, etc., we are wondering at the HNS Club whether rotation is the best way or if such serious services should go to the elimination of these people from the system? I'm just gonna go back to page 12. I don't know what I wrote down here, either, but, well, we're not gonna do that, I'm gonna give up this part. And I repeat, in this individual debate, I will look at myself in another way regarding one amendment that we have proposed since my colleagues have not yet been present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34550	Thank you very much. And the last reported club for discussion is the IDS club, the distinguished representative Mr. Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34551	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will try to say briefly that the IDS Club will support this law package from the Proposal of the law on probation which is in the first reading to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the execution of prison sentences and the Law on the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences and offences. Here, one of the fundamental reasons is that we absolutely support the reform of the judiciary and what the minister said, we certainly hold that with these three laws one process is being rounded up, but I would certainly stick to the proposal for a law on probation that we support, but I would certainly like to say here that the reasons why we support it. First of all, because we think that the bill itself creates a more humane and fairer criminal justice system. It has already been said about the economics of the procedure, that we know that this is the very proposal for the law in relation to the execution of a prison sentence in the prison system, which has given the work for the general good at large or some other essence of the enforcement of the sanctions in the community, is certainly much cheaper than the prison maintenance of the sentence, i.e. further reduction of the re-admissions. We can also say about the increase in the number of sanctions imposed in the community, given that the Republic of Croatia now has a limited number of sanctions and measures that can be implemented in the community and certainly a reduction in the prison population. What is said in the assessment of the situation itself, on the day of 31.12.2007 we had 4 thousand 290 people in prison and it is concluded that prison facilities exceed 20%, i.e. in the Republic of Croatia, detention is applied to a greater extent than in most European Union countries, so that we have about 3,000, 700 detainees per year. Also, perhaps one question, I can see that the recommendation of the Council of Ministers of the European Union's Committee of Ministers in 1999 has established the overcrowding of prisons, the increase of the prison population and in some way suggested or suggested to us that efforts should be directed towards replacing short-term prison sentences, working for the common good on the loose with intensive control of restrictions on freedom of movement, electronic monitoring, testing, etc., etc. The fact that very little or almost nothing has been done since 1999, certainly raises the question of what has been said in the debate about the financial means provided. As Parliamentarians, we will certainly support that the budget provides sufficient resources for this law to say that it is for the very reason that we believe that this model is extremely good, not only for the reduction of the prison population, but for one basic reason that many, especially those who are convicted of short-term prison sentences, do not think they should receive the prisoner's label, but they can do exactly one such work for the general good at freedom or some other institute or other sanctions, meaning where it will not be said to be marked as persons who have been on a prison sentence to make a big step. Here, I'm saying that all the club representatives said they supported the bill's proposals. Certainly, the law is in the first reading, suggestions, proposals that we are or are certain amendments in order to improve the text will certainly be given in the second reading, but I believe that such a bill with other laws can be one major contribution to judicial reform and certainly one fairer and more humane approach to the execution of penalties that have been most implemented in criminal institutions with penalties, meaning working for general good or house arrest. So the sanctions we've had so far are defined in the criminal laws, even though very rarely or very little have been carried out. Here's my support for this law and the other laws that are in this package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34552	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. And now we're moving on to an individual debate. The first and last reported is Mr Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34553	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a very, very short one. I've now moved on to my personal notes from the club meeting and only two sentences related to the Penal Code. In fact, we had two disputed provisions and this first disputed provision was contained in Article 8 amending Article 9 of the current law. This item defines temporary transfer and assistance when workers of one prison are sent to another, primarily for certain security reasons. That item prescribed this possibility in such a way that the temporary transfer could last for a maximum period of 3 months, i.e. 6 months if the team was agreed by an authorised official who was temporarily relocated during one calendar year of course. Now this time limit is lifted and it opens up the possibility of something that is a temporary emergency agent, for the sake of system failure turning it into a permanent solution. These employees have their families and their lives, on... The way they're tied to their residence and the law opens these possibilities we find unacceptable, we've tabled an amendment, we've written an amendment, we hope you'll accept it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second disputed provision is contained in Article 25(2) amending the existing Article 131, which opens up the possibility of obtaining the benefit of leaving a semi-open and open penitentiary regardless of the sustained part of the sentence imposed. In accordance with the expert assessment of the officers of the penitentiary, while the other items of that article are practically serviced by the conditions and introduce criteria and criteria for the achievement of the benefit, this paragraph shall be disaved and left to the will of the officers of the penitentiary. After all the newspaper articles on abuses of the benefits used by prison officials, we ask you to consider this proposal and to change it. We didn't want to make an amendment. We believe that you will definitely correct this illogicality. Here's once again in the end to say that the HNS Club will support all three bill proposals, and we ask that you accept this amendment that we have given, because we consider it important, important to improve this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34554	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the final word will be taken by the Minister of Justice Dr. Ivan Shimonović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34555	I thank you for your principled support for this package of laws. It's about the law of probation and the Law of Sanctions for minors. It's about first reading. We look forward to suggestions to improve the texts of these laws. I can already say that some of today's articulated promotions will already be included in the text that will appear in the fall of another reading. As far as the Penal Code is concerned, we have received three amendments and all three amendments are accepted. This means that we accept both amendments to the Committee on Legislatives and amendments to the Club of Representatives of the CNS. We'll think about this last suggestion, then see if we show up with our own amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34556	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. This and I conclude the debate on these three legislative proposals. We'll vote on them when the conditions are met. This and today's work of the Croatian Parliament ends, by 9:30 tomorrow, when we continue with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judgment Council. I thank you all and I'll see you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-30-0.u34557	Third, the draft law on probation was first reading, P.Z.E. No. 332, the proposed law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The draft law on probation is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments, proposals and opinions raised in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This conclusion was accepted by the majority of 97 votes in favour, no abstentions and one against. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We continue with the session and I suggest that the 6th and 8th points of the agenda, i.e. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts shall be brought together in a debate to discuss them jointly. If anyone has an opinion, please say it? I think that makes sense. No, so that's how we're gonna do it. So we move to - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council, first reading of P.Z.E. 383 - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 382 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. You received the materials by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Would the representative of the Proposer of Justice Minister Mr. Shimonovic like to take the floor? Here you go. Minister of Justice Mr. Ivan Shimonovic. Here you go.
