ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33911	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs. I will briefly present a few sentences on amendments and additions to the Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of the Railway Markets. The basic law was adopted in 2007 which established this agency as an independent and independent public institution. In the framework of the pre-accession negotiations with the representatives of the European Commission, the European Union and in accordance with the rules, we have decided to amend and supplement the laws with a view to redefining and further clarifying the pre-installed provisions of the law, in particular in the part relating to participation with other regulatory agencies in the environment, and this law will also create a more precise framework and give the right to call on the regulatory body to select the members of the infrastructure manager, which will significantly strengthen the regulation and deviability of access to rail infrastructure, and on the other hand, the amendments to this law go towards increasing the penalties prescribed by the Agency for disputes before it and to a significant extent by increasing the amount of 50 thousand kuna to a maximum of 2 million kuna. These amendments and additions continue the process of harmonising domestic legislation with that of the European Union. And I must say here in the debate that as representatives of the proposings we agree and accept the amendment to Article 2 which has been given by the Legislative Committee to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33912	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, Mr. Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33913	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of Railway Markets and this proposal will bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legislation of the European Union. This law amends and complements the Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of the Markets of Railway Services by further clarifying some of the earlier laws of the established legal institutes and further harmonising the provisions of the law with the provisions of the secondary legal provisions of the European Union. The law further specifies, amends and complements certain legal institutes and more clearly and fully implements the European Union Directives regulating the issue of regulation of the rail market, i.e. the structure and functioning of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency. The European Union Directive on the allocation of rail infrastructure capacity and the collection of charges for the use of rail infrastructure refers to the principles and procedures applicable to the determination and collection of fees for rail infrastructure and the allocation of infrastructure capacity. The principle set out in this Guideline allows infrastructure managers to place all infrastructure capacity on the market and make effective use of it. The issue of the work of the regulatory body shall also be settled. Directives of the Council of Ministers of Europe and of the European Parliament on railway development, they deal with the separation of railways by ensuring the independence of rail entrepreneurship, the separation of management and business areas of infrastructure from transport services. It establishes the principles of non-discrimination of market business through the independence of an independent regulator and infrastructure manager, the separation of transport services from rail infrastructure services. As early as 2007, the adoption of the Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of the Market in Railway Services began to bring the legislative framework of the Republic of Croatia into practice with the European Union. The aim of the establishment of the Agency is to enable the opening of a rail transport market and to give equal opportunities to all participants who meet the conditions for the provision of public rail transport services without discrimination, with the establishment of regulation enabling supervision. This bill and the addition of the law significantly strengthens the role and significantly extends the Agency's powers. Thus, the appointment and resolution of the members of the management body of the infrastructure manager will not be possible without the consent of the Agency. It is possible for the Agency to prevent adverse effects on the market by taking appropriate measures in the event of a legal dispute. Administrative actions brought against individual solutions of the Agency shall not delay their execution. It also increases amounts for infringements for a legal and natural person in relation to the applicable law. Thus, with a fine of up to 2 million kuna, the entity will pay on the market for rail services if it does not comply with the Agency's request. We believe that by passing this law, the agency will be much more efficient and efficient in doing the work in its work and we from the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33914	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33915	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will also support this proposal to amend and supplement the Market Regulatory Agency Act. The adoption of the Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of Railway Markets 2007 has led to the first steps taken on the path of harmonising the existing legislative and institutional framework with those in the European Union relating to the regulation of the rail market and the establishment of an agency for the purpose of protecting railway market participants, thereby contributing to stable operating conditions under market conditions by promoting sound competition. In the context of the pre-accession activities of the Republic of Croatia for the entry into full membership of the European Union and in order to meet the additional criteria for the conclusion of the negotiations in negotiating chapter 14. – Transport policy, in accordance with subsequent suggestions from the European Commission's representatives, is assessed as having to redefine or further clarify some of the major legal institutes previously incorporated into the law and implement further harmonisation of the provisions of the law with the provisions of the secondary legal provisions of the European Union. In this respect, these laws further specify, amend or supplement certain legal institutes and more clearly and fully implement the Directives of the European Union which regulate the issue of regulation of the rail market, i.e. the structure and functioning of the Agency, in particular Directive 2001/14 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2001 on the allocation of rail infrastructure capacity and the imposition of charges for the use of railway infrastructure. My predecessor explained more precisely the details of these changes, so I won't repeat it. I repeat, the HNS Club will support the law and additions and amendments to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33916	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Agent Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33917	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The adoption of the 2007 Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of the Markets for Railway Services was the first steps taken on the path of harmonising the existing legislative institutional framework with those in the European Union related to the regulation of the rail market and the establishment of an agency aimed at protecting railway market participants, contributing to stable operating conditions under market conditions for promoting sound competition. In order to ensure an accelerated continuation of the process of harmonisation of rail systems with European Union regulations and in view of the nature of the economic significance of the railway and the need to ensure conditions in the domestic rail system for equal and competitive participation in the European Union rail market, in particular in the part of the regulation of the rail market, which aims to achieve a greater quality of service provision, cost reduction and protection of end-users, the adoption of this Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of the Markets for Railway Services is proposed. The objective of opening the rail transport market is to enable all participants in that market to have an equal opportunity in the provision of public rail transport services with equal, transparent and non-discriminatory conditions, allowing the establishment of regulation to control the implementation of the planned objectives. The regulation in this context should cover the public rail transport activity and shall be implemented by the competent regulatory authority established by the proposed Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of the Markets of Railway Services whose basic role is to ensure open and non-discriminatory behaviour between the infrastructure manager and railway undertakings on the railway market in order to prevent any case of discrimination and a mono-political situation and... access to rail facilities, criteria, charges imposed for the use of infrastructure, the amount of these charges, and in other cases relating to access insurance and use of railway infrastructure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The provisions of the new Articles of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of the Markets for Railway Services are laid down to provide the Agency with prior consent to the appointment and resolution of members of the management bodies, the infrastructure manager, thereby further preventing discrimination against infrastructure managers against railway undertakings. Furthermore, the new article adds the possibility to the Agency that, in the event of a administrative dispute, it will prevent the continuation of any adverse effects on the railway market without delaying a solution to the dispute before the court by taking appropriate measures. The Agency's obligation to publicise all individual acts is also prescribed, with a solution to further comply with the provisions of the secondary and legal regulations of the European Union. Article 3 provides for the public publication of the Agency's decision to object to dissatisfied entities in the rail market. This provision defines more precisely the relationship between the cooperation and exchange of agencies with... other countries and further harmonize the concepts with the concepts used in the European Union Directive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The other articles also define the concepts of the previous text of the law more precisely, regulates the issue of the exercise of the work of the Governing Council in the event of the prevention and absence of the President of the Governing Council and further regulates the material rights of the President and members of the Governing Council of the Agency, depending on whether the duties of the Administrative Board are carried out as sole occupation or occasionally. It is also prescribed that presidents and members of the board of directors and employees of the agency be required to keep a business secret. This Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of the Markets in Railway Services defines specific areas of the previous law more precisely, and I believe that the proposed text of the law should be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33918	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. 21. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of the Railway Markets. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 357, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee adopted by the applicant in the course of the debate and is not being voted on. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of the Railway Markets. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority of 102 votes in favour of, 2 abstentions, nothing against, together with accepted amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33921	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs. The amendment and addition of the law on railway proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is amended by the basic Law on railways adopted in 2003 and entered into force on 1 January 2006. The Law on Railways made the first shifts in the opening and liberalisation of the rail market as well as in compliance with EU legislation. Following the entry into force of the Law on Railways in 2006, a greater number of coordinations of the organisational structure of railways with the guidelines of the European Union were also made. Amendments and additions to this law have taken place in accordance with the pre-accession activities of the Republic of Croatia in section 14. A transport policy where this legislative solution has been reached along with suggestions from the European Commission's representatives. This text is a further shift in the process of adapting the birth of the railway and its adoption will redefine and further comply with the provisions of the applicable law with the secondary regulations of the European Union. First of all, greater independence will be given to the infrastructure manager and its basic functions, access to infrastructure and the charging of the route carried out on the market from other railway undertakings and transport activities. This will contribute to an open and non-discriminatory approach to the rail market, but will allow foreign railway operators to access the Croatian infrastructure network but only after Croatia's entry into the European Union. I must point out that in the pre-accession negotiations, the Republic of Croatia has highlighted its negotiating position where it requires that by 2012, not fully liberalise freight transport, carrying out freight transport on a network of infrastructure. These amendments and amendments to the law will further comply with the provisions of the Law on concessions which entered into force in January 2009 and will further regulate the issue of services of general economic interest, i.e. passenger transport and will comply with the relevant provisions and regulations governing the area and the issue of state aid. Finally, in order to facilitate application and uniformity, this law will align certain concepts prescribed by the Law on Railways with the concepts set out in the Railway Safety Act. The amendments to this text of the amendment and the addition of the law are also adopted by the Parliamentary Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33922	Thank you. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, Mr. Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33923	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support amendments and additions to the Law on Railways. This proposal for a law is also in line with the legislation of the European Union, but also, since a new Law on concessions has been adopted and in that part this proposal for a law has been required to comply with the provisions of the Law on concessions. As of 1 January 2006, an important Law on Railways has actually begun to bring the existing legislative framework into line with the one in the European Union and to bring the organisation structure of the railway into line with the European Union guidelines that aims to make rail transport more efficient and efficient to meet European rail market requirements. We adopted a basic document in the Croatian Parliament, which is the National Programme of Railway Infrastructure for the period 2008-2012, which sets out the priorities of development, construction, modernisation, reconstruction and functionality of the railway system. This already includes the fundamental settings of the Transport Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which respects the process of harmonising Croatian legislation with the European Union's legislation, also in an international one whose signature is the Republic of Croatia and the development plans of the trans-European railway network in this area. Therefore, there is no question how strategically important the development of railway infrastructure for the Republic of Croatia is. The strategy for the development of rail transport is based on the need to meet all kinds of traffic requirements for maritime orientation. Here is the proposal for a law on the confirmation of the Treaty on the Guarantee of the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a project to restore the river transport route, which we certainly hold to be extremely important. It is also an important strategy for the spatial development of the Republic of Croatia as well as a commitment to integration into European integration. Pre-accession negotiations conducted by the Republic of Croatia to enter full membership in order to close Chapter 14, according to the suggestions of the European Commission's representative, need to redefine some of the pre-installed legal institutes and carry out further harmonisation of the provisions of the legal provisions of the European Union. The European Union pays great attention to the construction and efficiency of technologically developed railway infrastructures, which will consist of a trans-European network of high-speed railways and trans-European conventional railway networks. Railway railways belonging to that railway network will have to be built and modernised in a way that meets European technical and technological standards and regulations. The Croatian transport space is already included in the pan-European corridor network. 10 pan-European corridor Salzburg-Solun, 5b and 5c Budapest-Rijeka and Budapest-Ploče, as well as the 7th pan-European corridor Rijeka-Dunav, which has great significance for the development of rail transport in the Republic of Croatia. The main objective of the transformation of rail transport in the European Union is the training of railways for equal and competitive participation in the whole European market, but also the objective of developing rail infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia must be to function in the sustainable development of the country and its involvement in the common market of the European Union. This results in priorities in building and restoring railway infrastructure. Given the time we live in, recession and all other problems should be invested there and first where the effects will be greatest. This proposal for amending and supplementing the Law on Railways brings us the independence of the basic functions of infrastructure managers from rail transport activities by installing relevant provisions, because if the infrastructure manager were also a transport service provider, which some require not only to deviate from the Council of Europe's proposals and suggestions, it would also be a conflict of interest. The installation of the European Union Directive regulates the allocation of rail infrastructure capacity and the imposition of charges for the use of the same, the harmonisation of the concepts used in the Law on the Safety of Railway Traffic, the harmonisation of concession institutes with the Law on concessions, the harmonisation of the provisions of the law with the Law on the Protection of Markets and the decision on the publication of rules and support in transport relating to services of general economic interest in rail transport. In order to ensure the continuation of the process of harmonisation of the rail system with the regulations of the European Union, and thus to close Chapter 14 in pre-accession negotiations for entry into full membership, as well as to ensure conditions for the domestic rail system for equal and competitive participation in the European Union rail market, the HDZ Club will support the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33924	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33925	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning, I would like to say immediately that the SDP Representatives' Club will support the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Railways, which, as the State Secretary has already said, is in line with both the existing law and complements the situation as expected to be, given that Croatia is entering and will enter the European Union in the coming years. And of course we have to adapt our legislation in this area too. What we also want to say very clearly, in addition to supporting the law, is that we are not satisfied with how the situation takes place in the Croatian Railways and that we are not satisfied with how the current government refers to the Croatian Railways. We believe that Croatian railways and infrastructures under the Croatian Railways are not developing well enough, fast enough and there is not enough investment in these railways to make them more competitive on the European market tomorrow. What is very important, and what the Secretary of State has said by this law, and from the following year it is allowed to access foreign operators in our area, in the territory of the Croatian Railways. And what we are very concerned about is that the adjustment to this situation of the Croatian railways does not come seriously enough and that Croatian railways would say so vividly backwards, in reverse. We believe that the market will lose monopoly on the railways as of next year. So we said about 33% of rail traffic next year will have to offer the market and we believe that Croatian railways will in this sense be uncompetitive. The foreigners will be very likely and we have already seen this year's arrival and promotional ride of Austrian railways from Zagreb to Vinkovac will be interested in this part of the railway especially Zagreb Vinkovci and from the Hungarian border to Rijeka. And we believe that this will very likely contribute to a more unscrupulous, especially HZ Cargo or specialized company of Croatian Railways for the transport of goods, and that the question is at all how 2,500 employees in HZ Cargo will keep their jobs. We think the situation in this area will be good if foreigners come and then buy from the Croatian Railways to be competitive after all. What needs to be pointed out in particular is that there is no investment in infrastructure and the Committee on Transport, Maritime Affairs and Connections has asked for a report. My colleague Rebić mentioned this programme that we brought in by 2012 did not go as planned. There is not enough investment and is asked by the ministry to give us information on how they intend to achieve what this Parliament has drawn out with this programme. But there is no investment in cars or our average, the average age of our wagons is 32 years and without additional investment and further investment in these capacities we will not be competitive with foreigners who will enter our market. But what's up? There is no investment we have said, but there is an intransparent and unintended spending of money in the Croatian railway. Mr. President, you can just have a little bell.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33926	It's not much of a noise. You can hear everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33927	It's a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33928	It's small, but it's a common democratic constituency.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33929	Okay. So there's no investment in infrastructure, but there's non-transparent spending. The State Audit also found that in the Croatian Railways, half of the billion kuna and 300 million kuna are spent not on investment in infrastructure, which should only be under the Law on Railways, but is spent transparently on covering the losses that these railways achieve. And that's another big problem where he resents us as the World Bank, but so will the Competition Protection Agency, because that's something that's not allowed under European rules of conduct. Also, there's no saying investment but there's a suspicion of crime. Here, just a few months ago we had the suspicion that the former director of the Croatian Railways had agreed with the Serbian railway director to pay one service for 3m euros, that we had an example from also a year ago that the company, or the responsible person for international transport, had somehow paid 10m euros and more million euros over the past period damaged the Croatian railways and thus had to sell over the shora, embezzled big money. And when you see that such a situation of non-transparentity and not control in the Croatian railways happens, it happens that even here is the gas that disappears daily, that it is stolen in small amounts. What we believe is that the Croatian government must be put more seriously both by investing in the railway infrastructure and by restructuring the company and creating efficiency within the HZ holding company and all the companies of the daughters that operate within the holding company. Absolutely Croatian railways have now become the place where it is the easiest to provide a politically defined circle of people, but unfortunately after which the former director we had a few shifts in the past few years since the whole structure remains. Whether the company that makes or part of these companies within the holding company that realizes the loss deserves to have about now in HZ about 4 hundred managers all receiving 15, 20, 25000 kuna. Whether Croatian railways are now being used to satisfy a particular circle of party friends or to in some way place Croatian railways more efficiently and prepare for a period to come before them. We believe that not and therefore the Committee on Transport, Maritime Affairs and Connections has also asked the RES and Croatian Railways to see how the adjustment and restructuring of these companies is going, whether they are sufficiently efficient and ready for the competition as it should be. And in the end, let me paint what the position today is in the Croatian railways. So, Croatian railways have 2976km of track and average drive and speed with trains moving on Croatian railways at 50-60km. There's even a place to drive 20 kilometers. We're talking about the 21st century. Only 122km of Croatian railways are able to withstand a speed of 140km, which is some standard valid on European railways. One information that fascinated me, in order to drive from Vinkovec to Zagreb, you travel between 3 and 3.5 hours. '90s. You've traveled 2.5 hours in the same order of the train. So is it possible that these 20 years of Croatian independence we have failed, not to shorten the time of the road, but even succeeded in half an hour and increased it. On the other hand, this trip, as we said, will be on the cargo market, i.e. the transport of goods takes from Zagreb to Vinkovac 5.5 hours. Comparations are now making a promotional tour of the same cargo road from Ljubljana to Istanbul, which will last 37 hours. So that's where you can see how unprepared we are for that game. And now in the end, of course, I said we will support this law because we think it is necessary because we are joining in some way in this area of Europe, but we are seriously calling for and asking the Croatian government and responsible people in the Croatian government and in the Croatian Railways to work seriously on this issue because the next year as well as this one will be a struggle for every job and we cannot allow the inefficientness of the Croatian government, the restoring ministry, 2.5 thousand people in HZ Cargo to lose their jobs because their managers and their owners are unable to ensure that they are competitive on the market of goods transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33930	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33931	I thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Law on Railways, which was adopted by the Croatian Parliament in 2003 at its 34th extraordinary session, which began on 1 January 2006, was therefore made the first steps in the way of harmonisation of the existing legislative and institutional framework with those in the European Union and the harmonisation of the organisational structure of railways with the guidelines of the European Union, with which rail transport aims to make it able to meet the requirements of the European market more quickly and efficiently in the area of railways. I will also at the beginning immediately say that the representatives of the HNS Club will support the amendments and additions of this law, but I underline, as my predecessor pointed out, the problem is in the application of this law and many laws that bind to this issue. Let me look back on a few words of the World Bank's opinion. This country of ours came in 1999. The transport development strategy, which showed that 40% of investments will go to road, 25% in rail and maritime, and the rest in air traffic and new technologies. After 10 years, today 2009 we have that almost everything goes into building highways and subsidies to Croatian railways, and this is not the development of rail transport. However, since Prime Minister Ivo Sanader of the Pelješko Bridge said that the government does not intend to stop investing in road construction because it has positive effects on gross social product, employment and tax revenues, it seems that the awareness of turning has not matured in the areas where this issue is being decided. And in road construction investments, we're wrong in my court because we're only developing highways, not urban and suburban traffic. And let me mention with a few words the situation in my Krapina-Zagorian County. The situation as in many other counties isn't bright, it's not good. I'd just remind the government and the resolute ministry of the situation that was in 2006. In fact, at the time, representatives of the Croatian Railways were in our Zabok. It is about Mr. Marijan Klaric and Executive Director Zdenko Bilic, who discussed with the representatives of the dentists the city station and today's Kolodvorska street. And then it was said that the first phase of the modernisation of the Zapresic-Zabok railway would mean reconstruction for a speed of 120km per hour. This means that there will be fewer adjustments on certain parts. It was then said that they were not large, but in some parts they go outside the railway belt, so they will need to make expropriations, i.e. to resolve property-legislative relations. Also, those stations on the railway will be reconstructed, such as Novi Dvori, Luka and Velika Trgovište and all the views. The Zabok Station was then planned for a special reconstruction and was said to be under way. It has been said that there will be 250m long island pens and two 80m lateral platform. Mr. Zdenko Bilic then said that the modernisation of the Zapresic-Zabok railway includes both its electrification and the construction of two track tracks. Mr. Bilic then said it would be done in stages. And that in 2006 projects were done and produced. The electrification of the railway to Zabok was said to cover only one track in the first phase, and only later will a two-way track be built. Namely, the estimates showed that one track is sufficient for the current traffic density, or number of trains, Mr Bilic said then, and the construction and electrification and construction of the second track announced for sometime 2010. It's not far, and I hope we'll see it through. However, it is a bit discouraging fact that the HH for the first stage of modernisation, yet there are no more concrete dates, but Mr Bilic believed that the reconstruction of the Zaboč station could begin in the spring of next year, so in 2007, today it is 2009. It was said then that we have an idea solution, it's a study of environmental impact and investment studies. When we make a professional division, which means that an idea solution must be attached to the catastrian plan, and we do studies to accept it, then the main project can be done relatively quickly for the Zaboč station itself, said Mr Bilić, and added that the entire reconstruction of the mentioned railway and station will cost less than 400 million kuna, and that it could be completed over a year, two of course if the state approves the funds. A year, two passed, little or almost nothing. It was then mentioned and I will repeat here that, within the framework of the national programme for the construction of railway infrastructure, HZ representatives, Zagorje, claimed, played a very important role. However, it is about plans that are announced by the futuristic year 2030. But if they come from Zagreb, they will be able to travel through Zabok and Krapina train to beautiful Vienna. The Zagreb-Beč railway will include the electrification of the railway to Krapina, but also the drilling of the tunnel through Strahinčica to Novi Golubovac. They were alive, so they saw. Thank you very much, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33932	Thank you. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met. 22. The final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Railways was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 363rd Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee, which was adopted in the course of the debate and is not voted on. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Railways. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This bill was adopted by the majority of votes, 100 votes for, 1 vote abstention, nothing against, along with the amendments accepted. And the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links proposes to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia reports the Croatian Parliament on the Modernisation of Investments in Railway Infrastructure Programme and the modernisation and adaptation of HZ Cargo, HZ Passenger Transport and HZ Train Pulling." Does the Government's representative want to show himself about this proposal for a conclusion? Mr Branimir Jerneic, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33934	Thank you, Your Honor, President of the Parliament. Honorable MPs. We do not consider that there is a need to draw such a conclusion, as Article 29(4) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013 provides that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council. The Law on Railways clearly prescribed a way of reporting on the programmes of construction, maintenance, modernisation and modernisation of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33935	I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion of the Maritime, Transport and Connection Committee, which the Government, as we have heard, does not accept. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This conclusion was not accepted because it was voted by 35 MPs, nothing abstentioned and 67 against. We move to - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on cableways for the transport of persons with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 358 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Mr Branimir Jerneic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33937	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. We have before us a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on cableways for the transport of persons, a law adopted by this House of Parliament on 13 July 2007 and entered into force in August 2007. The basic law mainly brought us into line with the New Access Directive No. 9 of the European Commission in 2000, and we have significantly regulated the Law on cableways' essential requirements for the design, production, construction and construction and operation of cableways, safety in the transport of passengers, acquisition of the right to build certain types of cableways and to regulate the area of concession. As this House of Parliament adopted the Law on concessions that took effect in January 2009, the Government of the Republic of Croatia reached a conclusion requiring the ministries of the legislator to comply with the provisions of the Law on concessions, which is mainly due to these amendments and additions. Therefore, amendments and additions to the Law on cableways for the transport of persons relate to Chapter 6 of the concession and to Articles 51 to 62. The debate was conducted through the parliamentary committees, there was no objection and the adoption of this law on amendments and additions to the Law on cableways for the transport of persons, a fundamental assumption of the acquisition of legal compliance and the implementation of the concession system in the area of cableways.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33938	Thank you. The Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. I'm opening a debate. HNS representative club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33939	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. I'll be very brief. We heard the opening statement. I'll just say here that the representatives of the HNS Club will support this proposal to amend and supplement the Wires Act. It's about head six, it's about concessions. Here's the gentleman who told us what it was about. I won't be long. I won't take your time. We will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33940	Thank you. Mr. Representative Kreshimi Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33941	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I am also going to be brief, only to say that, starting from the fact that the special laws must be in line with the general laws, it is estimated that the applicable Law on cableways for the transport of persons is not in line with the roof law on concessions. Therefore, today we have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Transport of Persons. In that proposal, the law reconciling the authorised body and the acts to be decided on the award of concessions for the provisions of the general law which determines the concession. It is prescribed that the Croatian Parliament or the Government of the Republic of Croatia determines when the construction of cableways or the management of existing cableways involving the right economic use of cableways, in some area of interest to the Republic of Croatia, and in this case it is considered that the interest of the Republic of Croatia is established in order to gradually or incompletely authorise real estate from existing cableways which are not owned by the Republic of Croatia. It shall also be prescribed during which concessions for the right to build lifts, hanging cableways and fixed towways are given and the right to manage which includes the right to economic use of the lift, hanging cableways and fixed towways. The proposal for a law regulates the transfer of concessions to another person during the concession period and prescribes the conditions under which a concessionary may, during a concession period, entrust certain works in the construction of a cableway or the management of a single hanging cableway or a pre-contractor to a domestic or foreign natural person. The proposal for a law also lays down the procedures to be implemented if, during the duration of the concession contract, the need to carry out works whose implementation does not constitute a change in the essential requirements in relation to the conditions under which an existing cableway is built or if, during the duration of the concession contract, the need to carry out the works of which constitutes an important change in the conditions under which a single cable is built. For this reason, I will support the amendment and the addition of the Law on Wires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33942	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33943	The final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on cableways for the transport of persons was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 358, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on cableways for the transport of persons. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This law was passed with 98 votes for, nothing against, nothing abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33944	We're going to the next point. - Annual report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of human resources policy and the overall state in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for 2008, with the State of Defence in the Republic of Croatia 2008 Report, is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This report was submitted by the Government on the basis of Articles 8 and 120. Defense laws. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Defence and the Committee on Gender Equality. You received the reports at the session. A representative of the motion state secretary at the defence ministry, Pierre Simonovic, will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33945	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The 2008 report refers to a period of exceptional importance for the development of the defence system. It covers the period from receiving invitations for membership to admission to an alliance in April this year. The report shows the state of the defence system, the degree of readiness achieved and the management processes in the main areas of its action. The first part discusses the general strategic context, i.e. the security environment and the current threats and risks, as well as the interests and objectives of the Republic of Croatia and the means of protecting them. The second part deals with the state of the defence system from conceptual and legal arrangements through the main defence policy process and planning to the readiness of the defence system. The third part of the report, ladies and gentlemen, is detailing the management processes in the main areas of the defence system. And the fourth part deals with the social position of the defense system. In the fifth and sixth parts, the main achievements in 2008 were systematised, i.e. the main developments in the next period. The report answers three fundamental questions, how we manage defence resources and systems, how we use resources and what we develop, or continue to develop. The analysis of the security environment of the Republic of Croatia points to a low probability of conventional threat but at the same time increased risks of organised crime, the spread of weapons of mass destruction of international terrorism and other unconventional threats. In such circumstances, there is a continuation of reform of the defence system, i.e. the adaptation and development of the defence system's capabilities in line with the needs of the Republic of Croatia, the national needs and our NATO membership. The intensive reform processes that took place during 2008 focused on increasing the operational capabilities of the Croatian Armed Forces, improving the defence management process and adapting to NATO alliances and developing quality staff. In 2008, training focused on achieving interoperability with NATO through reaching and maintaining the readiness of individuals and units declared to be NATO-led operations and exercises, and on developing the capacity to assist civilian institutions and populations in the event of natural or environmental accidents or disasters. Here, of course, we include other kinds of support for civil institutions such as search and rescue and medical evacuation and fire-fighting season. Training and training to assist civil institutions and the population has been demonstrated by the engagement of armed forces in fire-fighting activities. Support and active participation in the international community's efforts to strengthen international peace and stability have been continued as a permanent commitment to Croatia's security defence policy. The UN's peacekeeping operations involving our members have been increased. Since 2008. The Republic of Croatia is taking part for the first time in a UN peacekeeping operation with a military unit, more satin in the ANDOF operation at the Golan High School. In addition, the Republic of Croatia was first involved in the European Union military operation in the Republic of Chad and the Central African Republic. The number of members employed in the ISAF Peace Operation in Afghanistan has increased to 277 members. Meanwhile, during this year, in March, this operation in Chad has been transferred from the European Union's strength to the United Nations by our continuing participation with another unit in another six-month term. Staff management policies are based on four main programming areas, staff procurement, professional development, personal support and transition and staff allocation. The basic task of the system is staff management and meeting the needs of a military organisation for quality personnel while providing adequate support to each member. The concept of uniform staff management sets out principles and basic procedures in all human resource management programmes. The main development objectives in the field of human resources management are the establishment of a single staff management system, the achievement of full professionalisation of staff, target numerical size and structure. The staff procurement programme as a permanent process of attracting, selecting and receiving the completeness of the design places to the best candidates shall be implemented in accordance with the long-term plans and needs of the defence system. Professional development enables the military system to reach, maintain and develop the skills needed for the successful conduct of the assigned duties. It is carried out with a growing and subsequent military and functional education, the assignment of various duties, only by development and by advancement in service and promotion in rank. The Kadet project as a model of civilian military training, which is trained by officers for the needs of combat breeds and tribes of combat support for all three branches of the armed forces, represents the primary form of scholarship for career officers. Significant improvements have been achieved in the procurement of cadets by expanding the offer of cadets, better quality preparation of transporters through internal courses for promoters, better quality promotion in the media, resulting in the increased interest of candidates for this programme and for the service in the armed forces. Personal support is aimed at estimating the work and meeting the needs of the individual and includes the area of wages and other material benefits of housing, health care, family care, psychological support, rest, rest and leisure time, value of contributions and credit through the touch of distinction and recognition and preparation for the end of the military career and the preparation for a second career. The purpose of personal support is to raise the overall quality of life of an individual who directly affects successful procurement, maintenance of quality staff, and encourages professional development of all categories of staff. In 2008, a regulation on the value of the personal act coefficient was adopted for the calculation of the salary of the active military person and the new rules on the salary allowance and payment method for the persons involved. A decision has been taken on the amount of compensation for civil servants and deputies of the Ministry of Defence and the armed forces to which the service ceases due to the redecoration or reduction of staff. The planned separation of mostly older personnel who qualify for retirement, military staff whose health skills do not meet the criteria of the active military service and civil and military personnel of inadequate professional training has been continued. Issuance of staff has been followed by appropriate activities under the Transition and Disposal Programme covered by the Support Programme. In 2008, conditions were created to refer candidates to voluntary military service and the first generation of voluntary handbooks was sent to serve voluntarily. During 2008, increased investment in the equipment and modernisation of the Armed Forces, in line with the dynamics set out in the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces and available financial resources. The contract and purchase of the required personal protective and combat equipment and weapons of a assault rifle, foot soldiers' armored vehicles, non-combat motor vehicles designed to complete operations. Two Hellsink class rocket cannons have been obtained and the introduction into full use will be completed this year after the end... and adaptations to the conditions in the Adriatic Sea. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the armed forces system, aircraft were introduced for the initial training of a pilot of a type of evil, helicopters MI17AS a total of 10 pieces obtained from a clinical debt from the Russian Federation, fire-fighting aircraft... AT802 five pieces and a radar system has been established... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 117, and the contracted purchase of two CL 415-type fire-fighting aircraft. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The financing of the defence system followed the parameters set by the long-term development plan that are in line with... At the rate of growth of the gross national product and the framework for the allocation of the national budget for 2008. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The 2008 Defence Budget was drawn up in accordance with the objectives set out in the long-term development plan,... on the movement of the numerous status of the Armed Forces, the participation of members in international peace operations, international commitments adopted, training and education plans and the equipment and modernisation of the Armed Forces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The structure of the budget will continue to be gradually changed according to the drawn projections in the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces in favour of equipment and modernisation and operational costs under financial restrictions will be carefully carried out by the priorisation of all development objectives and will be given advantages to development projects that contribute most directly to the achievement of defence capabilities. Introduction of new equipment, adoption and application... documents, intensive participation in training and training activities of members of the Armed Forces with members of the NATO Armed Forces and successful participation in international peace operations confirmed the progress of the Republic of Croatia in the process of transforming the Armed Forces and achieving the criteria for full membership in NATO. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The evaluations carried out, the achievements of the Republic of Croatia in the MAP and PARP processes confirmed the readiness of the Republic of Croatia for full membership in NATO, all resulting in the accession of the Republic of Croatia to NATO in April this year. Central government authorities shall continuously monitor the implementation of defence preparations in legal entities for combat preparations, conduct education and supervision and provide appropriate professional assistance. The defence ministry has provided professional assistance in setting up defence preparations jobs in newly formed ministries and expert discussions on defence preparations have been held. Armed forces enjoy the reputation and trust of Croatian citizens to show public opinion research, according to which the Armed Forces are regularly located at the very top of the list. The readiness of the defence system of the Republic of Croatia, the implementation of the human resources policy and the overall situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia shows that the Republic of Croatia and the development of the defence system is appropriate to the needs and levels of threats and challenges facing the country. The defence system is successfully aligned with the best practice of modern defence systems, developed countries, in the first place those gathered in NATO with whom we achieve extensive cooperation in the planning and implementation of operations and the achievement of assigned missions and tasks. The forces directly involved in missions were brought to the level of abilities and interoperability that affirm the Republic of Croatia as a credible ally in NATO. The overall efforts in implementing the defence system reform are aimed at creating relatively small but modernly equipped Armed Forces, and highly prepared. Structural... and reforms in the area of human resources, with intensive equipment and modernisation, are undergoing a transformation of the Armed Forces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After the end of this process, the Armed Forces will achieve the proper structure and develop the capabilities necessary for the achievement of all missions and tasks. The creation of new planning documents and, in particular, the new Long-term Development Plan of the Armed Forces will take care to direct limited financial resources and to develop the necessary defence capabilities to ensure the protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia and to achieve the necessary level of interoperability with the advisory forces. The launch of a voluntary military service project and a contractual reserve, the Republic of Croatia has decided on a completely new approach to ensuring staff support for the Armed Forces, which directly contributes to the new vision of the Armed Forces, which have been transformed into a relatively small force whose strength in the more capable staff is ready to carry out various tasks both abroad and abroad. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, here at the end of the presentation I would also, at the Ministry of Defence, feel a special need to highlight the extremely good cooperation that we believe we have achieved in the first place with the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament in terms of close consultations, in terms of mutual visits and regular briefing on all our activities. Here on our part, this activity can only be further deepened, strengthened and as an extremely important aspect of the general action and action of the defence system in terms of providing all information to the Croatian Parliament and also obtaining appropriate guidance from it. In this regard, we also support the proposal sent by the Defence Committee to the Croatian Parliament for our adoption this year. And also in the second point to accept the position of the Croatian Defence Committee, the Croatian Parliament, in the future, starting in 2009, the annual reports are also being prepared in, taking into account all the comments, remarks and proposals made in our debate here in the Croatian Parliament but also at the Defence Committee, at previous meetings and at the meetings that we will have during this year and which, of course, we will have during the preparation and adoption of the 2009 report committee. And yet another brief note, Mr. President, I think that the experiences that we have from now on in these few months of our functioning as NATO members suggest, and what we are at this moment telling you that the reports on the readiness of the Armed Forces, the reports that you have for 2008 in front of you in the future will look very different, I think, the entire defence system, the way it works, its arrangements, transparency, the knowledge of affordability, the procedures, the planning will very quickly be even more orderly, brought to full, full integration with the most advanced standards we meet in NATO. Here, Mr. President, I'd stop here, of course, if there are any questions, I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33946	Thank you. The defense committee? The Committee on Gender Equality? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Ante Kotromanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33947	Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, colleagues from the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, fellow MPs and colleagues. Before I start talking about the defense system's preparedness report, I'd like to ask two questions to the Department of Defense. I have to, I can't come to Sinj and yes, they specifically mentioned that to me to ask the Department of Defense. First question, why hasn't the military... In the city of Sinju. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's been stretching for years, I think for ten years the city of Sinj has been intensively trying to get that military. We've written this several times to the Ministry of Defense and the President of the Republic, and I think we should do something about that military. It is now totally devastated, everything that was worth inside is stolen, destroyed, ruined, and I think that the city of Sinj can benefit well from that, and mainly because practice, the usual practice was also in the Republic of Croatia that such warships that are not foreseeable for the Croatian army, are allocated to local environments and communities. And the second question, also very important, is very important for the city and the area of Sinj, which is that with the promise that part of the southern brigade's forces, the former 4th brigade, will move to the military Sinj after several hundred years, perhaps 400, 500 years the first time the city of Sinj will be left without an army. We have conditions of good, down there people are a little angry at, I will now use one term which may not be good, for weakness of the Croatian army, everything has moved up. We've got conditions down there, we've got a military facility where the army was trained, a manual army. We have excellent officers, officers gathered from all backgrounds, I haven't missed a colleague, very important, and that's the defense system preparedness report. If we have 300 dissatisfied officers, the officer and it is a very important thing for the Croatian Army. So I'd like you to see what we can do next. We know it's the interest of all of us to have satisfied people. Two important forces have occurred in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia recently. First, it's a NATO entry. The Republic of Croatia has become a member of the North Atlantic Alliance which is very good and of course we must commend it all, it is the interest of the Croatian State and the Croatian Army and of every soldier, officer, officer and it is a good thing. After years of waiting, reforms carried out, we were invited to join this important association. We did a good job, started in '91. A year to this day. But now we must not stop, satisfying only our membership. There's a serious job waiting for us right now. Full adaptation to NATO standards, the equipment of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, education and training, and serious and dangerous operations outside the country that will take place in the future must make us go further and further. Another important thing that happened to the Department of Defense, which is a budget that's been cut by about 500 million which isn't good. And it's going to be a serious problem this year, and I'm afraid next year because we don't know if next year's budget is going to be smaller in view of the crisis, the recession we have, and we don't know how it's going to go together. This can seriously slow down the quality development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia because it is very well known in what technical state individual components of the Croatian Army are located. Although much has been done, although much is done, even though the Croatian Army is going its course, it is of course an interest to us to have a solid and stable army. And I'll say just a few words about this report first. The report seems much better and better quality than last year. Of course we'll just support the report, but we'll get back to reality and reality. We know what our tribes are like as the Croatian Air Force, the Croatian Navy, so one ground forces, armored troops. I was the commander of the 4th brigade. I had 30 tanks. They were mostly tanks of T54, which were even withdrawn from the system, most of it, but the rest of the tanks we have are enough, these are already resources that are old and raw, but they are well maintained in terms of age years. But I am saying that we must absolutely take care of this very important segment of the Croatian Army. What is very important to say, emphasize, is that we will probably not be able to raise salaries in the next period to Croatian soldiers, officers, and this can seriously question motivation precisely because we have a reduced budget which we do not know what the budget projection will be for next year. This, of course, can be very negatively reflected in the question of quality personnel, mostly officer personnel. We have a big problem with how to attract young people to the Croatian army, especially if the salary is lower than in other sectors. Leaving the most professional personnel from the Croatian Army, reducing the budget is an unfortunate message. By the end of the year Croatia must fire 1200 soldiers, officers, officers, and today we have, it is the employees of the Ministry of Defence know, we have more than 2,000 requests to leave the Croatian Army. Most of them are officers, experienced officers who have been through all stages of the Homeland War, who are at a very good level of combat training and I think we can have problems at some point in terms of lack of quality personnel, if we respect most of these demands and if we fire most of these officers by the end of the year. I think we need to keep an eye on that, and we shouldn't let most of these people say fire by the time we get there. A lot of people are going to our sick leave, trying to get a bigger pension. They are mostly people who are planning to leave the Croatian Army based on PTSD, while part of the people would certainly remain in the Croatian military, but according to the current criteria they are not perspective, but they are capable. We know well that we have a lot of such officers, officers who are terribly high-quality and valuable people, and a few days ago I was down there with just one piece of the former 4th Guard brigade that everyone said, filed a request to leave the Armed Forces. And it's hard to make up for these people, I don't think that's possible. It's impossible in 40 days or more, two months, to train some new boyfriend or officer who finished the academy or passed the cadet project and he simply can't learn what these people know. I'm afraid we can have problems in some serious out-of-country operations if we put people who haven't been through a fight or a fight at the head of such units, and that can be a serious problem for the people they lead up there. I suggest that we don't rush the layoffs by the end of the year because, of course, people can go from the Croatian Army to the foundation of Article 6a, and they would take something, some pension, have a job opportunity, but we know it's hard to get a job today and that most of these people are in over 40.50 years, 40 to 50 years old, and it's gonna be hard to hire all these people. And I think we should kind of stretch that space a little bit, let people sort of get along and try to find some kind of a good alternative. When I talk about alternatives, I suggest you talk to the MUP. We will enter the European Union and we will need several thousand top police officers who will need to secure the border itself. It's just these people that I think are the best for that kind of thing. They've got at least medium professional equipment. They need to pass several additional exams to become authorised persons of the MUP. I think that they can be excellent personnel for the Ministry of the Interior and should coordinate with them that in the next period, somehow all of this is extended, and we hope that all of us will soon join the European Union. And I think those people would be happier, happier if they stayed inside the system, than if they went out somewhere and sent them out to retire and asked for a job. I'm just going to say that these are people who are trained and today they train mostly to fight and they're real such pie bulls that I think I should always keep in one way inside the system. The other thing, I suggest we build one security company and I've already talked about it, I've suggested it before in the morh. That's why I'm saying, we're going to have extras, we've got extra officers, now in the Croatian army soldiers. For us professionals, the professional army deals with ensuring various military, Croatian military homes, things that are absolutely unnecessary and that absolutely take away what they need to do most, which is training. People spend about four to five months on watch. It's frustrating for them and I think we should watch how to relieve these people and watch what is common practice in the world. I've been to Brussels several times, probably also been a minister, former Defence Minister Roncevic. We've seen who secures the facilities, who secures NATO itself. They're a security company, and I think we can make a good profit, so we can work one way, transfer extra people to a security company. That's what the Hungarians did now. That's what the Australians do, the New Zealanders do. That's what the English do, the Irish do. That's what Israelis do, Americans don't say. It's a common practice. We've got these people under control. These people can eventually be if they're already in the system we can put them in reserve principle. They may later be at the helm of the reserve we also have under the law that I believe we should increase. And I think we can say we can do a lot in this context of self-sustaining the resolution and employment of people who are very important to us. On the other hand, we will relieve the soldiers and not deal with the benign things, not spend days and hours on the watch by providing the Croatian Army's House in Karlovac for example or by cleaning up the military Lora down in Split, but by doing those things for which they are paid, which is, for the poor salary of 4000 kuna, which is training, training, training and preparation for combat tasks that can be later and in the future. It should consider, or ask the Government to allow the MORH to sell one part of a number of real estates and thus patch up the budget hole, disburse the total budget. We have hundreds of properties. The people of the Ministry of Defence know this, probably all of us along the Adriatic Sea, as well as within the Republic of Croatia. Only Coopers worth hundreds of millions of kunas and I think that we can work elegantly on the improvement and quality of the Croatian military, on its equipment, training and technological equipment, and on how to disburse the budget ourselves because it is the same practice. For example, in the Republic of Serbia, they have done very well and quality in recent years. I think we can also do with these corporals that are failing, that are devastated, that no one uses anymore so that we can do much, that we can safely point at such things. In a conversation with our officers who have passed and gone on missions to Afghanistan, in Golan, we have come to realize that we should do something to protect them. You know well that now people who go up and if God doesn't let them get hurt or lose their hands and have no legs only the right to compensation for the damage. I suggest that I submit to this House these amendments and additions to the law, that these people be taken care of by the Defense Act as we did for the pyrotechnics. I think that would be correct and fair. We hope we'll never get into a situation where we give one pension to the family, if God forbid a soldier dies in Afghanistan, the Golan High School, or somewhere else, or if he's badly wounded, he loses his leg. I think that people should be dealt with as the Defense Act, like the pyrotechnics, that they deserve it and that's the least we can do in this situation when we send them out, when the dangers are very high, when we see good that the rise in terrorist activity in Afghanistan, and in the countries around them is strengthened and people are mostly from the Homeland War, who have nothing but pay and what they get up in the field, that it should be one guarantee to them for their own protection of them and their families. What I'm saying is, I've read the reports, and I think it's quite correct and quality. What I'd like to see more, and I suggest to the Department of Defense that you give more weight to the main headquarters, to what the Chief Staff does. What the Department of Defense is doing is I say quite correctly written and presented. But I'm interested, for example, as a soldier, in the preparedness of two professional brigades. I didn't see that. I want to know for how long a guard brigade can be mobile, how long it can be run, how long it can be transferred from space, for example, I don't know Osijek to Dubrovnik space down there. These are the things we've been training here and Djakic and I are very important. It's the usual training in any army and I'd like to see these things more in the report. I'd like to see how much that's total training. I'd like to see if they're having a good time... exercises, but... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] exercises with combat fires, not to carry out exercises of a type of peacekeeping, so these are more police exercises that are done on the Chechpoint, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what I'm interested in. I think that in some way in the next perspective maybe motivate the main headquarters to make one big, more satanic attack with fearsome goals is one big exercise. That's what we've done every year for one such exercise, and every other year we'd do combat in a combat attack with combat targets. And it was brilliantly prepared and done without any problems. I think that in this context, I should be more motivated to tell the Chief Staff to say what the real problems are inside the main headquarters itself. Of course, people from the Department of Defense who may not be soldiers can't even track it unless someone says and warns them about it. What I also think we should do is make a little bit more of a reservation. We have about 2,000 reserve people who are, which we have designated as people who are prepared in one way to support the Croatian professional army. But maybe you should consider making it a little more people. So I say speaking of the experiences I've seen, for example, how the English do it, their retired officers, after a military career, are necessarily in such reserve systems. They're even used by the state in a situation where the Afghanistan-type forces are overloaded together and Iraq. Then they use retired officers to go on missions around the world. I suggest that we engage our retired officers in this way who are quality, good and professional and I think they can help the Croatian military a lot. Also, maybe to increase these voluntary forces because we have a lot of problems right now with saying holding up military, we have professional soldiers, if maybe there's all two grand and something in the guard brigade, they can't get there. They serve to clean, to train, to guard, to do war tasks, and I think that maybe these people would charge at least some of those people that are our most important, most determined, and have the lowest salary in the system itself. And also perhaps as the last thing, I can see that time is running out, that maybe we should consider slowly thinking about the defence ministry reform itself because I don't know when it was the last time. Maybe reduce some people, I don't know either, and see some kind of structure that might be more operational, faster and that will satisfy all the reforms that the Croatian Army has been through so far. Here at the end, of course we'll support the report and, well, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33948	Thank you. HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33949	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. Before us is the Annual Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which has been submitted in accordance with the Law on Defence since 2004 for discussion by the Croatian Parliament. The analysis of the reports from year to year shows that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and this report provide a clear picture of all the most important processes that take place in the defence system and the state of defence system preparedness and the possibility of responding to modern threats and challenges that the Republic of Croatia can face today. The Republic of Croatia successfully implemented comprehensive reforms in the year covered by this membership invitation report at the NATO summit in April 2008, and this year it was also admitted to the North Atlantic Alliance, which met one of our strategic foreign policy objectives. The Republic of Croatia has been recognised as a credible partner, ready to contribute to the common objectives of the alliance and has achieved significant results in implementing defence reforms, approaching alliance standards and developing defence capabilities. This is certainly a recognition for the Republic of Croatia, for all efforts made to transform the defence system that meets the criteria of required efficiency and interoperability in accomplishing missions and tasks. Defence policy is developed and implemented within the framework of the national security strategy, the Defence Strategy and the Government of Croatia programme. The objectives and priorities of the defence policy stem from the strategic definitions and long-term development projections set by the strategic defence review, the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces adopted by this High House and the implementation plans, and their operationalisation takes place in line with the possibilities and situation in the defence system. Training is aimed at achieving interoperability with NATO and at achieving and maintaining individual and unit readiness. The forces are trained to move and transfer by land, air and sea through integrated border training. In the framework of the planning and parchment process, the Republic of Croatia continued the process of implementing the partnership objectives. In doing so, the emphasis on equipment and training of units declared to participate in NATO-led operations is on the implementation of partner objectives related to the learning of foreign languages and on training of staff to participate in multinational commands. As a partner country, the Republic of Croatia completed its last PARP cycle in January 2008 and as an invited state began the process of integration into NATO's defence planning system. By signing the accession protocol in 2008, the partnership objectives have become the transitional targets of forces that have become the goals of force through the accession of the Republic of Croatia to NATO. This supports Croatia's intention to reach NATO's targets of availability, 40% of land forces deployed, and 8% of land forces supported in NATO-led operations. Croatia is now very close to these objectives. The Republic of Croatia has continued to step up its support efforts, the engagement of the international community in the establishment of security and stability and the construction and restoration of Afghanistan, the operation of ISAF, which is today the most complex operation involving members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, which is conducted under the mandate of the UN and under NATO leadership. Our participation in ISAF is a long-term commitment that shows that the Republic of Croatia shares the values and priorities of NATO and that it is willing and willing to assume its share of burdens and responsibilities in building a safer environment according to its capabilities and military capabilities. The report shows that our contribution to UN peacekeeping operations has been increased since 2008 to the Republic of Croatia for the first time in UN peacekeeping operations with a military unit, more satinically in the UNDOF operation at the Golan High. One new experience, one new challenge for Croatian Armed Forces. The Republic of Croatia is also involved for the first time in the European Union military operation in the Republic of Chad. A provision for participation in NATO's KFOR operation under the mandate of the UN, the Republic of Croatia also contributes actively to the construction of institutions in Kosovo and security and stability in the region, while participation in NATO's Activ Endeavour is contributing to the fight against terrorism in the Mediterranean area and the achievement of safe navigation. By participating in NATO PFP military exercises in the country and abroad, our Armed Forces have played an important role in training members and troops of the Armed Forces for the implementation of missions and tasks with the participation in peacekeeping operations and the implementation of activities in support of civilian institutions such as fire-fighting season, transport of life-threatening persons, in search and rescue, rescue at sea and similar non-war tasks. The engagement of fire-fighting aircraft in support of the fire-fighting season is growing from year to year, and in 2008, it was increased thanks to equipment from new 5 fire-fighting aircraft of type Air tractor. The process of rebuilding the Armed Forces is a continuous process, and a new structure of the Chief Staff and the approach units was implemented during 2008. In the Croatian Land Army, the reconstruction of the Guard brigades was carried out, the Croatian Navy continued to form the Coast Guard, Croatian Air Force and anti-aircraft defences, and the transition to the functioning of the system with 2 aircraft bases. The process of segregating the Air Engineering Institute and organising it as a commercial company owned by the Republic of Croatia with all the advantages that this change will bring. In addition to the reshuffle, changes have been continued to reduce the number of personnel in the Armed Forces. Staff management policy is based on staff procurement, professional development, professional support and transition and staff allocation. The main development objectives in the field of human resources management are the establishment of a single staff management system, the achievement of full professionalisation of staff, and I stress professionalisation is not only about pay, target numerical size and structure. The numbered size of the work group and 16 thousand personnel and a thousand 600 civil servants and deputies, as long-term drawn in the long-term Plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The total number of active compositions on 31 December 2008 were 21 thousand 522 of which 3 thousand 420 women or about 16%. And this opportunity I will take advantage of the very professional and quality work of women in the composition of the Croatian Armed Forces who are today acting more and more complex command duties. In any case, this trend should continue and strong support should be given. The staff procurement programme as a permanent process of attracting, selecting and receiving complete armed forces shall be implemented to the best candidates in accordance with long-term plans and needs of the defence system. The results of the survey showed that for military employment, the highest interest remains in the service and voluntary service, since the legal changes gave the possibility. Professional development enables the individual to reach, maintain and develop the skills necessary for the successful behaviour of the assigned duties by carrying out this growing and subsequent military and functional education, the assignment of various duties, self-development, and the promotion in service and the planning promotion in the act. The Kadet project, as a model of civil military training, which is trained by officers for the purposes of combat genders and genders, combat support for all three branches is the primary form of education, scholarships for... Regardless of the criticism some are giving him as an expensive and irrational form of staffing, it has proved to be the most lasting solution in the long term. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The training of personnel in the military education system is carried out in border schools for the needs of gender and service branches, and at the Croatian Military University for the needs of a united level of command. The purpose of professional support is to raise the overall quality of life of an individual who directly affects the successful acquisition and retention of quality staff and encourages professional development of all categories of staff. The planning of the staff to qualify for retirement has been continued, the military staff whose health skills do not meet the criteria of the active military service and the staff of inadequate professional training. The allocation of staff was accompanied by relevant activities under the Transition and Disposal Programme, the spectrum programme covering the support programmes. I would particularly stress here that the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this reporting period and in the report in the section relating to human resources gave a detailed overview of the data with the share of women and men in certain activities and groups, thus showing their equal treatment and status in a transparent manner. The development of the Logistics Systems of the Armed Forces towards rationalisation and circulation of logistics capacities has been continued. Further reduction of the total number of military facilities used by the planned modernisation, and rationalisation of use have improved the working conditions of the unit. In 2008, the equipment and modernization processes continued, and all two Helsinki class rocket cannons were purchased as well as aircraft for the initial training of pilots, ZLIN 5 pieces, helicopters... A total of 10 pieces, fire extinguishers... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 5 pieces, and it is placed in function and radar system sky FPS 117. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In recent years, investment in equipment and modernisation of the Armed Forces has been significant, and the process of equipment and modernisation continued during 2008. I'll just mention some projects. The acquisition of combat armored infantry, the development of a domestic assault rifle, the purchase of non-combat motor vehicles. The financing of the defence system followed the parameters set by the long-term development plan of the Croatian Armed Forces, which are in line with the real growth rate of the gross domestic product and the state budget allocation framework. The defence budget has been built in line with the objectives of the long-term development plan, projections of turning the number of armed forces, participation of members in international peace operations, international commitments, training and education plans, and the equipment and modernisation of our Armed Forces. In reading the report, we see that the Government of the Republic of Croatia as the key directions for the development of the defence system in the next period is based on plans and conceptual documents of defence policy, and that development towards functional areas of the defence system are reorganisation and completion of the reconstruction, thus improving the management and business opportunities necessary for action under the conditions of full membership in NATO. Further improvement of the defence management process by introducing a new planning regulation system, improving planning, and achieving greater efficiency of resource use. Key efforts in the area of international defence cooperation will be focused on the successful functioning of the Republic of Croatia in Euro-Atlantic, security and defence integration, both under the auspices of NATO and the European Union. The equipment projects will continue with combat armored vehicles, coastal and offshore patrols, and the creation of preconditions for the launch of a combat aircraft equipment project. Under the terms of financial restrictions, priority will be given to the prioritisation of all development objectives and will be given to development projects that contribute most directly to the achievement of defence capabilities and security of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. As has been the case so far, this report also reports to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the state of defence preparations. The national authorities shall, in accordance with their jurisdiction, continuously monitor the implementation of defence preparations in legal persons, the holder of defence preparations from part-time work, carry out training under surveillance, and provide appropriate professional assistance. During 2008, defence ministry staff provided professional assistance to central government authorities and legal persons holding defence preparations, in accordance with their requirements and needs. The concept of establishing a management system in emergency situations and crises will be developed, as well as the direction of further development and the area of defence preparations. Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The prepared defence system of the Republic of Croatia, the implementation of human resources policy and the overall situation in the Croatian Armed Forces, shows that the Republic of Croatia continues to develop a defence system appropriate to the needs, levels of upheaval and challenges it faces. The defence system is successfully aligned with the best practice of the defence systems of developed countries with which it achieves extensive cooperation in planning and implementing operations, and the achievement of missions and tasks. The capabilities are needed to carry out missions and tasks within the NATO Alliance, but the capabilities are also intended for their own national defence and security needs and there is no neglect to the mission and the task of providing assistance to civilian institutions such as strengthening fire-fighting capacity, participation in activities... rescue, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, I point out that overall efforts in implementing defence system reforms are aimed at creating relatively small but modernly equipped and prepared armed forces that will successfully carry out missions and tasks. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33950	Thank you. The club of representatives of the CNS Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33951	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today we have an opportunity to discuss the 2008 Report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall state of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. And in the introduction, I can say that the Croatian People's Party will support this report. However, through the debate, I would like to point out a number of areas that we believe are not well done within the Ministry which remain open and areas that are definitely disrupting or disrupting or not giving us the opportunity to say that we have done in this space what is our obligation and that is at the end of the obligations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, above all, in terms of responsibility and budgetary money and towards the future of this country. The report itself is correctly written, a classic report with a whole series of data, especially those that stand with extra weight strengthened to act more strongly and normally in the part where there is no real possibility to say we did it well, that part of praise or is better said beautiful. In any case, and this entire report, and now during this debate, I am taking the opportunity to congratulate everyone in particular on the ministry's employees and on the well-worked process of joining the NATO Pact, but I repeat first and foremost to the employees and all other successes that are evident. However, the opening part of the report discusses improving the structure of staff. However, reading this report is difficult, it is really very difficult to find confirmation of this finding because the fact is that the staff allocation plan in 2008 has been achieved with 80%. It is also a fact that in the past years, the same plan was undermining. And the consequence today is that we still have over 5,000 employees more than targeted. And when we do a rough calculation, according to the rough calculation, this surplus of defense employees is about half a billion kunas a year. These are very significant funds, the funds that are extremely needed in terms of modernisation and in terms of equipment and the reports read that both in modernization and in equipment that we are in the sub-competition. The fact is that we have also recently discussed a law that abolishs the upper limit of promotions to officers and officers of members of the armed forces and employees of the Ministry of Defence and the fact that we have a final result, which is an increase in the age of officers and officers and under these conditions is difficult to talk about improving the structure of staff, very difficult. Good staff policy does not even undermine the promotion of lower officers, but it is not a complete achievement of the plan to promote seniors. And the final effect in 2008 is more promoted by senior than the lower officers, which further deforms the bad pyramid of officers anyway. Secondly, a colleague, Kotromanovic, mentioned something. Resuscitation of military facilities. The fact is and it is evident to all of us that the reuse of military facilities is going extremely slowly, often ineffectively, that some of these procedures take more than a dozen years, and in this whole story we have double damage. First, the Ministry of Defence is burdened with the management and preservation of objects that are not needed by the Real Ministry of Defence, on the other hand to those institutions, local communities at the end and the market do not allow them to use these objects for educational purposes either for other and very important economic purposes. A colleague, Kotromanović, mentioned Sinj. I also want to highlight the problem of Cooper, an extremely large military hotel complex, an extremely great potential. For this potential, it was already a defined price and I really don't see why and why that price that was defined as a known buyer not to turn into a concession and an international competition for an unknown buyer. I really don't see any reason. An example to me in the neighborhood of Ivanec. For eight years now, he's been trying to get one object that he would bring to his senses, he has a plan, he has a financial structure, how and how to edit the facility. The facility has been completely abandoned, for eight years the town of Ivanec cannot be able to begin managing the facility. And a whole series, surely, that each of us here in the Croatian Parliament has one such example from his place, from his area of residence. And third is extremely important. Our long-term document is a long-term plan for the development of the armed forces, and the fact is that this long-term plan is not being realised and not happening, realisation is not taking place with the necessary dynamics. Its total value is 12 billion for the period 2006-2015. Usual mathematics is about a billion and 200 years old and the fact that this plan, not to mention 2006 and 2007, was undermining. The fact that in 2008 he realized with 890 million kuna, including inside and helicopters from Russian clinical debt and the fact that in 2009 through rebalancing it reduced by 500 million. And all of this together means that in the first four years of the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces that, looking financially, it will be realised at below 50%. And it will certainly happen that in the years ahead of us this difference, that this difference will need to be compensated, will be compensated in a way that either reduces the possibility or potential of other resolutions, other ministries or increases which is very likely to be the deficit of the state budget, but in any case we are going to move hotly to the future in this segment. We at the Croatian National Party Club will support this report but at the same time expect the Ministry of Defence to do its part of the work in front of us and from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to at least in the segment of military facilities, at least in the segment of the improvement of the staff structure, do its part of the job. And hopefully, I really hope that in the times ahead of us, in any procurement that will be, we won't be able to be able to have a parliamentary commission bring their own right as it was in the opportunity of getting a truck but that the institution of this state will do its part of the job, and even if that's true, it's not true, but there's no reason why we don't even question that fact, and that's that the Director of the Police has to... his place just because he touched into an area that was sensitive to some. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33952	Thank you. The HSS Club. Pardon me, correcting the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33953	I'm correcting two incorrect allegations from Mr. Korakevic. The long-term development plan is being achieved, the long-term development plan should be read from page 1 to page 2, the long-term development plan also provides for alternative scenarios for situations that the gross domestic product will not be realised as planned when this document is adopted. And he's talking about priorities, he's talking about orders within groups of priorities. And therefore, it is not true that it is not being realized. Mr. Koračević, 2007 is an opposition to the amendments to the state budget, and here your party has been involved and has proposed a reduction to the Ministry of Defence with a wave on the modernisation and equipment programme at the time by a billion and 5 million. So don't call on the long-term development plan now, be consistent, so... The second quote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was not necessary for this parliamentary commission to be established that everyone accepted the findings of the institutions not being called upon by the company.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33954	KLUb representative of HSS, Mr. Representative Stanko Grčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33955	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of our debate, we would first like to commend all our structures and individuals in the Republic of Croatia and also the broader ones who have contributed in any way to the Republic of Croatia becoming a member of the NATO Alliance. In this regard, we would especially like to commend members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia who are in Afghanistan as well as members of the Armed Forces, the police and state officials who participate in other peacekeeping missions. In addition to these, we would like to commend all other members of the Armed Forces of the Police, Fire Department, the Mountain Rescue Service, as well as members of other institutions of society or association who, within their scope, are professionally or voluntarily concerned about the defence, security and protection of the Republic of Croatia, its citizens and today tourists. What about the 2008 report? We believe that this report, which we are discussing as well as what we have discussed since the previous years, covers in a satisfactory way some important problems, challenges and tasks that the Ministry of Defence is facing, and especially the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia with the management and management structure as a whole. As this report has much to offer, what we consider a satisfactory HSS will support it. The final part of the report reads the following sentence: "There is room for improvement in all elements of the defence system which will be pursued in the next period.". Therefore, the Croatian Peasant Party would also like to point out some open questions and whose closure through us could be helpful to the holder of the report for the next period. We are not sure whether it covers in an objective way other parts, elements of the defence system, and the position and relationship of the defence system with other parts of the national security system of the Republic of Croatia. For example. One of the issues raised is the problem of raising the security culture of the population under the conditions of professionalisation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and other structures of defence and protection. Namely, the prevailing attitude of science and profession is that the process of abolishing or abandoning the general military obligation and introducing professionalisation under the conditions of the emergence of a wide spectrum of non-war threats means the need to develop others now, to a large extent, the neglected structures and components of defence and protection. And one of the neglected areas is the security defence culture and the fundamentally protective education of the population in the broadest sense. In this regard, the question arises whether any education of the general population or the area of protection or defence, i.e. personal and mutual protection, or the culture of citizens, is envisaged. Based on the experience of the Homeland War, it is doubtful whether a professional structure can handle itself without the support of the population with the highest categories of threats or risks such as war, major accidents or disasters. I am afraid that the current situation in this area may be a problem for the integrity and effectiveness of the defence security system, so I think it is necessary to seriously consider and take appropriate measures both in the field of regulatory but also in practice. So far, what has the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia done about the evaluation of the intellectual potential of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and its transformation into intellectual capital that will be able to mate with the most complex tasks since the entry of the Republic of Croatia into NATO? In particular, what measures and actions and activities does the Ministry of Defence intend to hire experts with greater intellectual capital? To increase the intellectual capital of existing experts, to keep existing experts longer in the service, to increase educational standards and to keep the share of growth and renewal of intellectual capital under the supervision of staff reduction. Why am I pointing that out? After the accession of the Republic of Croatia to NATO, very complex tasks will appear every day in front of the leaders of the MARH and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. To fulfil these NATO tasks, it will be necessary to engage the best human potential available to the defence system of the Republic of Croatia. The fact is that the defence system of the Republic of Croatia has modest human resources and potentials. Information comes to us that on the release lists, as inspective, there are even masters and doctors of science and that the opus works of the existing scientific and professional staff are very modest. The specific question is whether it is ensured that everyone in whom money is being invested today, postgraduate and doctoral studies, will complete the start of forms and levels of education, and will they be adequately ranked and evaluated after completion? Whether all competent authorities are ready to deal with a possible problem, reaction to the first case of wounding or killing of our members in peacekeeping missions on the ground under the mission, to the procedure in the country, or to the notification of the heads of state of the family seriously wounded or killed, the coordination of activities to international partners involved in joint activities, etc. What is being done in the field of training of civil servants and deputies, as well as members of civil protection for participation in international operations and other activities abroad? I'm going to remind you of some of our questions that we raised in earlier debates between us at the HSS Club, so I'm going to repeat them again. Can the system of protection, rescue and under what conditions be more effective? Can the safety of people and material goods in the Republic of Croatia be greater under what conditions? We believe that it can and must if a competent system is created with a clear division of the area of responsibility of all institutions. The Croatian Peasant Party's proposals for improving the protection and rescue system are heading towards consistent implementation of respected international experiences and standards of the protection and rescue system. This system can only be effective when it recognises and foresees possible threats and situations, when it recognises and prepares resources and other capabilities for these threats and situations, when it defines their responsibilities and powers and common procedures, when it better equips and equips a dedicated force for protection and rescue and when it increases local and regional and regional preparedness to react to natural disasters and civilization disasters. In particular, in the segment of direct protection and rescue as an operational force, we propose to speed up the construction of standard operating procedures for all situations and all entities, to clearly recognise Croatia's mountain rescue service and other services as an independent element of the system of protection and rescue. The part of the report relating to the inspection supervision of defence preparations in point 8. provides the fact that the situation in this area at the level of the county and the City of Zagreb is not seen as a whole at the necessary level. In this regard, we are interested in whether any criminal and other charges against the responsible persons have been filed. When we talk about the area of defence preparations and the work of the Defence Inspectorate, we would like to get more information in the next report on the situation at the level of certain defence preparations holders, the Government, the central authorities of the state administration, the county, the City of Zagreb, legal persons of particular importance for defence and legal persons who have received the task of achieving some defence interest from the central authority of the state administration or the county, or the City of Zagreb. The last open question refers to the structure of the report itself. We believe that there are certain positive developments in the structure, but still not enough in the section relating to the civilian part of the defence system. Why do I say that? In addition to the report, we do not see any contributions related to defence preparations from the defence preparation body's work, meaning the central authorities of the state administration, the counties and legal persons and the work of the Defence Inspectorate in this regard. We believe that through some contributions, parliamentary representatives could be helped to get a better picture of the situation in the area, not only of war preparations, but also of other types of non-war threats. Defence-safety protection, protective function must be effective. It must achieve a fundamental objective, achieve an adequate level of security, or as high as possible. It must rightly respond to modern dangers and dangers, eradicate them, prevent them, prevent their harmful actions. People and their communities must be trained, prepared and organised to do so at a level that enables them to act effectively. Defence, security and protection are a key prerequisite for the democratic but economic development of the Republic of Croatia. After all that's been said, we at the HSS Club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33956	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. She's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Josip Djakić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33957	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here is the Annual Report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall state of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for 2008, with the State of Defence Report of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 clearly and transparently showing the state of the defence system of the Republic of Croatia. So just as the Republic of Croatia has, but is developing a defence system suitable for the needs, the level of threats, the challenges facing it, we can certainly read all the important details related to 2008 and we can say that the defence system is successfully aligned with the best practice of modern defence systems of developed countries with which it achieves extensive cooperation in planning the implementation of operations and the achievement of assigned missions and tasks. The forces directly involved in the missions have been brought to the level of capabilities and interoperability that affirm the Republic of Croatia as a credible ally which certainly demonstrates in every segment of its activities exceptional progress in the development of the defence system and could be said that rational financial means achieves extremely good effects in the equipment, in training, in training, in the completion, in full of young and educated personnel, and from all these conclusions we can say that through this report we can certainly see what were the main achievements in 2008 and they certainly speak of Croatian armed forces as well as defence preparations, but also of staff policy in the overall composition of the reduction of the Armed Forces, and efficiency and interoperability are certainly essential features of this 2008 report. That all this is so certain is what happened, and it has happened that the invitation to the Republic of Croatia to join the North Atlantic Alliance has certainly been a confirmation of the overall effort, working through all these years. But surely in the end, this 2008 was a significant year for the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as well as for the defence system. ... All forms of international military cooperation, in particular through participation in international peace operations, shall allow the transfer of experience and knowledge necessary to achieve organisational progress and to achieve appropriate levels of interoperability with NATO forces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It certainly puts a lot of effort and work into all our factors in the Ministry of Defence as well as in the Chief Staff, all officers and officers in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as well as all those who worked together as external associates with our people in the structure and interoperability of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. External threats are actually based on all security assessments and they're not what they used to be. They are no longer the same intensity or importance as they were, but they are the different natures and character with which the entire system of the Republic of Croatia must be rerouted, but also the defence forces, in a different way, to defend against global terrorism or global challenges that are on our premises or in the surrounding environment. Since direct warfare in these areas, there are no threats or dangers. We would like to stress that by accepting Croatia's views and arguments, NATO members have signed the so-called "Month of July". the access protocols by accepting the Republic of Croatia as a de facto member. From this point on, the Republic of Croatia participates in almost all NATO bodies but without the right to participate in decision-making to become a full member. These were all elements that were, were created all the preconditions for establishing a voluntary military service, which continues the process of reaching the full volunteering of the Croatian Armed Forces. The first group of voluntary handbooks, consisting of 220 candidates and 30 candidates, completed basic specialist training. The training of the handbook is based and specialized in voluntary military service. It takes a total of 14 weeks. Every year, more and more members and units participate in international peacekeeping missions around the world, and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are making progress in achieving compatibility and intellectual interoperability with the Armed Forces of NATO member states. The mission of the Croatian Armed Forces to the Golan High Force mission in June 2008 was first included in a UN peacekeeping mission with UN military troops. The Republic of Croatia is also involved in European Union operations in the Republic of Chad and Central Africa as the most important achievement in the field of equipment and modernisation we can separate the equipment of the Armed Forces by transport helicopters, school and fire-fighting aircraft, the establishment of a radar airspace control system with RPS 117 delivery of the first combat armored vehicles... eight times eight, those two Helsinky class rocket cannons from Finland. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Surely all these new modernisations and versions are consistent with the needs of the Armed Forces for rapid and effective action. On footing has also been purchased for the needs of troops in international peace operations, engineering machines and equipment, and NKB equipment for individual and collective protection. During 2008, extensive support was provided to civilian structures by giving honours to Croatian defenders, anti-fire seasons, flood protection, engineering works and more. With the scope and success of civil military cooperation, the defence system achieves and confirms its social role and status. The accreditation of the Institute for Research and Development of Defence Systems was carried out as a scientific establishment, which gave the defence system a set-up to carry out scientific activities in the field of social science, scientific field, security and defence science. All in all, we can say that this report that certainly speaks for all the details, and especially the achievements in 2008 that I have read now, we can be satisfied, we can wish for a lot of success and as little accident or loss in our Armed Forces as little as possible for those who will be killed in missions. And we certainly want them to continue to be a feather that will certainly achieve even greater and better results on the agenda of international cooperation. I can only say that we can be extremely happy with this comprehensive report that speaks of the good situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33958	Thank you. At 11,44, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. Next reported is one representative, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33959	I'd like to say a few more words to the esteemed colleague and colleague for the end, finally, on behalf of the SDP Club. That's right. [[But based on the club for five minutes, right, pal?]] So this is the first Annual Report on the preparedness of the defence system that we are discussing in the Croatian Parliament since Croatia is a full member of NATO. [[Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, you're right. Yeah, yeah.]] As regards the readiness of the Croatian Army in relation to some other countries that are NATO members, they can say responsibly that it could have become a member of the NATO Alliance long ago and that they were important political factors that followed us to the very last day before joining NATO, that is, the famous case of Slovenian ratification. So today's report is not only for the Croatian public, but also for our allies who we are together in NATO's association. The Croatian Parliament adopted a long-term development plan several years ago. After a third of the past time covered by this development plan, it is evident that certain things are being achieved according to the development plan, but they are visible and certain deviations. Mr. Roncevic said precisely in the correction of the quote that there are different priorities. However, something that is priority one has not yet been made, and something which is priority two to already move, for example, the assault rifle has been put in priority two and planned since 2011 the modernisation of the M84 tank since 2012. We couldn't even find the priorities, for example, of fire-fighting aircraft, so they shouldn't be part of the Department of Defense. I think that should be transferred to the Department of Protection and Rescue or the Ministry of the Interior in due course of fire protection. Also, what were the results of the Coast Guard solutions? Is this a good solution or should we find another solution? The NATO Alliance closed a cycle of reforms in the defence system that began in 2000 by entering the Partnership for Peace in May 2000. Croatia needs a new National Security Strategy today and needs other strategic documents. So this is one symbolic way, this debate about the annual report is one symbolic way to close that circle. Croatia achieved its independence in the Homeland War. The biggest burden was brought here by the Croatian Army and Croatian defenders. We remember during the Homeland War how the Croatian television logs ended with greetings to defenders wherever they were. By entering NATO, that term, wherever it may be, accepts some of its larger, some of its world meaning. Our soldiers are today in Afghanistan, Sierra Leone, Chad and other countries and there, in some ways, defend Croatian interests and in some ways ensure peace in the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, therefore, here is the symbolic way of ending a cycle, by joining the Croatian Army in NATO, the SDP club will support this year's report and we expect to discuss new strategic documents next year and the rest of which would naturally position Croatia in this regard as a full member of NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33960	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence Pierre Simunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33961	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In the first place, I would like on behalf of the Ministry of Defence, on behalf of Mr. Branko Vukelic, who, to be clear, is just returning from Afghanistan from visiting our forces and the operation of the peacekeeping ISAF. This is why he could not be with you today, thanks to the support you expressed in our report and also to thank for the suggestions, notes and questions that have been raised, which we will take into account in drawing up the coming reports. I think the coming reports will be very different in many ways, there will be, of course, an excerpt and a continuation of what you have had in front of you now and over the past years, but the fact of NATO entry will contribute extremely much at the level of appearance, structure and functioning of the entire armed system, which will find its reflection in the reports that will be given to you. I say again, the issues and suggestions raised during this debate and the previous debate, especially on the home defence committee and on the forthcoming discussions on the Defence Committee, will be integrated into this report and in the functioning of the defence system at all. One significant part of the issues you have discussed and the suggestions you have raised will be elaborated in the immediate coming up of a whole series of new strategic documents that will maintain a changed strategic environment, the changed reality of the Republic of Croatia, and this is primarily about the fact that we are a member of NATO, so that what follows directly, one significant part of these documents will come to the debate in the Croatian Parliament is the creation of a new National Security Strategy as a roof document that outlines the main threats, our main interests, values, interests, threats, threats and mechanisms of their resolution followed by the Defence Strategy, the Military Strategy, the new strategic review of defence and the new long-term development plan that exists several times during this debate. Namely, changed our circumstances, changed if you want and economic realities require certain adjustments, adjustments are already made, they are constantly working, but they also require a stronger foundation in strategic documents, so that this whole sequence of new strategic documents is immediately followed, starting from now on, so I believe by the end of the year and the beginning of next year, it is this framework within which new strategic documents that I say will come into discussion in the Croatian Parliament, and it will reflect the change in the situation in which we are, defined firstly by the fact that we have become a member of the alliance. And that fact itself, I think it speaks enough of both human potentials and the functioning of those achievements that have been made and that will be done at the level of the defence system. Namely, in the first place the entire state, but this system deserved to be called into the most advanced defence alliance, in NATO so that the entire system was of course under the glass of the national parliament, under the glass of the Croatian Parliament, but it was also under the bat of standards of extremely sharp NATO alliances, so that we feel proud of what was made, of course without any feeling that everything was made and that nothing should be done anymore. I say, here in continuity and with our continuing knowledge of how things work in NATO, reports in general and the functioning and the performance report will look different and more advanced. As for some specific questions, Mr. Vice President, if I may for half a minute. The resuscitation of non-perspective military facilities is one of the priorities of the Croatian government in this sector and the priorities of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence really has no interest in retaining some of the facilities that it does not yet possess, but over which it has jurisdiction because they exhaust a significant amount of resources and human resources in protecting and serviceing them, so that all efforts will be made as soon as possible in concrete cases, such as the specific case of the military Ivanis Nelipic in Sinj, as soon as possible in cooperation with the local community, in cooperation with other central offices of the Croatian government, as soon as possible. Also, the structure and schedule of forces in Croatia will be further discussed through the strategic defence review and through the long-term development plan, so here we are, indeed, pleased to record the interest of Sinj for the maintenance and establishment of a more significant military station in Sinj. Of course, it's the subject of additional consultation. And what comes directly, and what was also highlighted during this debate. We also see the need for reconstruction and the Ministry of Defence and further reconstruction of the Chief Staff in light of the experiences that we have gained by working in NATO, in light of our different needs and needs that are no longer as they were. So it is also a process that is being developed and that will be implemented directly in the coming period. As far as the staffing process is concerned, it is carried out in accordance with plans, in accordance with our capabilities, but with an increased one emphasis on the social sensitivity of the whole process. Namely, it's a responsibility we have. The person who is singled out is definitely not singled out by the staff who are able to adapt personally in terms of acquiring new knowledge, acquiring the necessary skills, and in the context of what we need. So definitely people, great people we need vitally. These people exist in the system, these people have made sure in the end that we enter NATO and operate in this way in the first place in Afghanistan. As far as the budget itself is concerned, the defence ministry's budget has been reduced compared to one 10% planned. That fact should not say anything bad in the sense that we have lost some abilities or that we have stopped or slowed down reform processes. Namely, none of the major projects modernization has been stopped or slowed down. It is simply a process of internal adjustment and saving at a series of points that are not priority, and in order to meet the priority needs of the functioning of us as a system for national security, for the purposes of our national security, but also for meeting allied obligations in NATO. So in the context of the current process... the budget rebalance and also in the context of accreditation measures. None of the basic functions of the Ministry of Defence have been violated. Moreover, they are constantly improving in those required areas. That's where I'd stop. Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your support and attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33962	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33963	24th annual report on the preparedness of the defence system of the implementation of the HR and on the overall Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for 2008, with the State of Defence Preparations report in the Republic of Croatia for 2008, is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. "The Annual Report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall state in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for 2008, with the State of Defence Report in the Republic of Croatia for 2008. a year." Please, let's get on and vote. I'm asking for a result. This annual report was accepted by most votes, 90 votes for, 3 abstentions, nothing against. The Defence Committee proposes a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is in charge that the Annual Report on the preparedness of the Defence System, the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall state in the Armed Republic of Croatia for 2009, with the Report on the State of Defence Preparations in the Republic of Croatia for 2009, has been prepared in a way to consider opinions, remarks, proposals presented in the debate." This proposal for a conclusion of the Committee has been adopted in the course of the debate, so there is no need to vote on it. The government accepted it, there's no need to vote. We can vote if that's exactly what... So he's accepted. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33964	We will discuss one more point before the vote - The Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2008 is submitted by the Croatian National Bank. The report was based on Article 62. The law on the Croatian National Bank. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. The government delivered an opinion. You received the reports at the session. Deputy Governor of the Croatian National Bank Boris Vujcic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33965	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In 2008, in... economic history it will remain recorded as the year of the major financial crisis, the greatest of times of great depression. The year behind us best illustrates how quickly economic expectations can be changed. Although she began to worry about inflationary pressures related to the sudden rise of world market prices of raw materials, and in the middle of the year conferences were held on a major return to inflation, last year she ended up in a completely different mood, concern about the health and sustainability of the financial system, negative pressures on the demand side, prolonged recession and possible deflator pressures. Such movements have, of course, significantly affected Croatia by exhibiting both weaknesses and the advantages of certain domestic sectors. Last year, it marked a relatively high average annual rate of consumer price inflation of 6.1&a. This was a major part of the result of price developments in 2007 but a significant increase in energy and nutrition prices achieved during the upstream 7 months last year, the conditions of high prices of raw materials on world markets. At the same time, domestic inflation pressures also came from the delayed effect of strengthening domestic demand in the previous year, and increased unit labour costs. The nominal gross and net wages increased significantly in 2008, which among other things resulted from the signed agreement on the basis of public and public service wages, changes to certain legislation, and adjustments to labour prices to rising inflation carried out in part of the economy. In the middle of the year, however, there is a shift in the trend of inflation, and together with the decline in world prices of raw materials and the slowdown of domestic personal consumption as a consequence of the start of the crisis, there is a noticeable slowdown in consumer prices inflation that fell to 2.9% in December. In addition to high inflation last year, it marked the lowest economic growth rate since 1999, and the total GDP increased by only 2.4%. Analysis of aggregate demand components shows that the shift in overall real growth has contributed most to the slowdown of personal consumption growth. The decline in household consumption has led to unfavourable changes in the real available population income, as a window of increasingly pronounced consumer pessimism largely linked to the collapse in the capital market, the stock market and so on. the negative effect of well-being. In addition, the lower output of the export sector in stable import growth resulted in a high negative contribution of net foreign demand to real economic growth. On the other hand, the investment activity of the public and private sector in 2008 has accelerated its growth and at least partially mitigated the negative movements of other aggregate demand components. As the labour market responds to the slowdown of growth in the economy with a certain time-out on it, relatively positive developments were recorded in 2008. The average number of unemployed was less than a year ago, with the unemployment rate down to 13.2%, while the number of employees increased simultaneously. The Central State continued to finance itself on the domestic market in 2008. As a result of a specific approach to foreign capital, it was particularly expressed in the last quarter. The government's bid to cover the budget deficit on the domestic market has helped the central bank adapt monetary policy measures. In this regard, the Croatian National Bank in May lowered the minimum foreign currency amount from 32% to 28.5%, thus liberating the funds used by the commercial banks to approve the country's trade credit. Bank placement growth in the banking sector in 2008 was moderate, or lower than the prescribed 12% limit of the central bank. The slower growth of plasma compared to previous years has been affected by the deterioration of credit demand due to fair conditions of financing and growth of active interest rates of banks, but also by the slowdown of overall economic activity and pessimistic expectations of future economic developments. The placements confirm that the CNB measures did not present an obstacle to the lending of the domestic private sector. In 2009, the new conditions estimate that banks will slow down growth to about 8%, as well as domestic savings to businesses and the population. As regards the supervision of the banking system, the CNB covered 24 banks and 10 savings credit cooperatives with its direct controls, and imposed measures to eliminate them according to established illegalities and irregularities. For the purpose of adequate monitoring and timely information, the CNB in the second half of 2008 intensified liquidity risk monitoring at the level of the individual bank and system as a whole. During the year, co-operation with foreign supervisors of banking groups belonging to domestic business banks was also intensified. A huge job has also been done in the area of legislation primarily related to compliance with the acquis and standards of the European Union. The new Credit Institutions Act has primarily been established to fully comply with the relevant European Union directives and to ensure the conditions for the application of the base in two standards or the Capital Requirements Directive. In addition, another eleven laws in the area of finance relating directly or specifically to the banking system were adopted last year. Further relatively strong domestic demand in most parts of the year has affected the deepening of the current balance of payments deficit, which was stopped only in the last quarter when the deficit was recorded at the level from the same period a year earlier. However, throughout 2008, the current account deficit was 4.5 billion euros or 9.4% of GDP, which is 1.2 billion euros more than in the previous year. A significant deterioration in the balance of current account can be attributed to the deepening of the deficit in the exchange of goods, which has been significantly influenced by high oil prices and the balance on the factor income account has also deteriorated considerably due to high equity and interest costs. Positive achievements were reported in the international exchange of services mainly in tourism while there were no major changes in current transfers compared to 2007. The current account deficit was financed by a strong flow of capital. The biggest increase in net inflows came from an increase in the foreign debt of domestic sectors according to contractual loans and trade loans, as well as cash and deposits from non-residents. In addition, significant inflows were also the result of direct investments, both through direct equity investments and substantial profits, and through debt tax to ownership-related companies abroad. The mentioned increase in debt flows led to an increase in the gross foreign debt of the Republic of Croatia by 5.9 billion euros during 2008 and reached 39.1 billion euros or 82.6% of gross domestic product at the end of December. Under the conditions of high external responsibility, one of the main risks is the sharp deterioration of the possibility of debt refinancing. The CNB has warned on such a possibility for years that in a very sharp form at the end of the year these warnings would be true. In such circumstances, capital flows were stopped due to the financial crisis in the last quarter last year thanks to the countercyclical monetary policy led over the past few years, the Croatian National Bank was able to manage the situation of halting capital inflows from the international market that occurred primarily after the collapse of the large investment house "Lehman Brothers". By changing the whole series of measures, the CNB has contributed to halting the withdrawal of deposits from domestic banks caused primarily by the reputational effects of mothers' banks, which is the second course I would say risks than those we have been used to in recent years, and has ensured the borrowing of the state on the domestic market. Also in a situation of strong pressure on foreign exchange markets with speculative elements especially at the end of the last year, the CNB has without major problems preserved exchange rate stability and thus financial stability. The collapse of the Lehman Brothers investment bank and the associated significant decline in the prices of shares of certain European banks during October resulted in a decline in the trust of domestic savings and the withdrawal of part of deposits from domestic business banks of 2% of gross domestic product. Along with the stock price collapse on the stock market, the risks were high. At that moment, the most important thing was to prevent the loss of trust in the banking system and to maintain the credibility of monetary policy in order to avoid the vicious cycle of exchange rates and the loss of trust in the financial system with further withdrawal of deposits. The countercyclical action of monetary policy since the start of the crisis has been rapid and strong. The CNB released over a billion and a half million euros in imobilised liquidity by abolishing the 450m-euro border reserve and reducing the reserve requirement. In addition, by reducing minimum foreign exchange claims from 28.5% to 20%, it means after the 5th month reduction from 32 to 28.5% allows banks to further activate their 2 billion-euro reserves. Other measures have been taken, an open position, a SWAP, foreign intervention of net 200m euros. At the same time, banks increased their foreign debt in the fourth quarter by 2 billion and 131m euros, with a short-term debt of a billion and 900m euros. So, the total net liquidity input from the CNB and foreign banks amounted to 3 billion and 900 million euros, nearly 4 billion euros, and this should add another effect on the fifth month, which brings us to nearly 5 billion euros. The very activity taken by the Croatian National Bank after the crisis in terms of the release of liquidity and this additional net foreign borrowing of banks corresponds to the values of around 8% of gross domestic product. So the countercyclical effect of monetary policy was about 8% of gross domestic product. Most of these funds are directly or indirectly allocated to the state for the settlement of domestic liabilities and the payment of foreign debt while the rest is aimed at maintaining liquidity in the business of banks with other sectors. Confirmation that the credibility of the domestic banking system was maintained at the time of the crisis in the international financial market is that according to the International Bank for Harmonisation, the Croatian banking system recorded the largest inflow of credit from abroad among all Central and Eastern European countries in the last quarter of 2008 at the rate of as much as 3% of GDP in the situation where a large number of countries experienced an outflow of funds from the banking system. This is also a confirmation of the regularity of the policy that the CNB has led towards the banking system over the past few years. This policy allowed the banking system to enter into a period of crisis with high capital adequacy, relatively low debt, relatively low levels of bad credit and reduced credit risk, and with a good ratio of loans and deposits that are in balance, which in the current situation does not require a reduction in the exposure of banks to mothers so that we can see in some other countries. The monetary policy therefore acted strongly countercyclically. However, it will not and cannot create liquidity that could in any way compromise the fundamental objective of exchange rate, price and financial stability. As a result, it is necessary to create additional conditions for fiscal and structural policy measures both to maintain macroeconomic stability and to increase the potential GDP growth rate that has certainly been reduced in terms of changes in the financial markets over the last 9 months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33966	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget? The Development and Reconstruction Committee? I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33967	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Vice President, the esteemed colleague and colleague. This report was presented by the CNB in 2008 by the Croatian alleged bank in the introductory sentence by much unusual, and first of all, with a strong increase in the overall level of prices in the first half of the year, while negative effects of the global financial crisis in the real economy began to be felt in the second half. And it is true that in 2008 it is unusual for many things but it is true that it was more than that it will certainly be written in economic, scientific and professional literature as well as one historical, most recently the most devastating economic crisis since the 1720s and since this last biggest one in 1929. As a consequence of the crisis, a billion euros have been broadcast and injected into destroyed financial systems to save fallen financial economics until recently protected giants. That is why the Croatian economy has also experienced certain difficulties and is constantly heard in the public that the real sector is in trouble and that the banking sector is absolutely safe for us. However, the real sector is an inexplicable part of the economic system and the real sector and the banking sector are so interdependent and connected that the long-term unsustainable relationship between the stability of one sector and the full threats of another sector. There's a need for harmony and there's no harmony. Harmony is necessary between production and savings and consumption. It is particularly worrying that the Croatian economy and the Croatian population are greatly exhausted. It also concerns a particularly low degree of self-financing of all business entities of companies and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It concerns and constantly insatiable demand for loans, a tendency to spend all forms, but also a low capitalisation of all business sectors other than the banking sector. Every economist and every resident of the Republic of Croatia should be happy to find that the banking sector is safe and can handle certain macroeconomic disorders. The Republic of Croatia once experienced a disaster of the banking sector in the late 1990s and could not bear it again. But all of us, as well as monetary policy, need to worry about some phenomena in the banking sector that are not economically stimulating but detimising. And that's the first increase in passive interest rates. Even more and more publicly advertised banking institutions by offering as many passive interest rates as possible. It also automatically worries about the enormous increase in effective interest rates, concerns and diversity and the diversity of different types of bank fees, I think there are 13. Concerning and stimulating minuses on citizens' current accounts. As a result, and what is good for banks to profit, to do business safely, to do well, but the report shows that in 2008, there was a sharp increase in bank profits. For example, one of Croatia's largest banks achieved 25.7% more profits in 2008 than in 2007. In 2007 a billion and 100 million kuna and in 2008 a billion and 394 million kuna. The second largest bank in the Republic of Croatia achieved an increase in profits of 18.8%. And when seen for the past 8 years in 2001, the total assets of the entire banking system amounted to 148 billion kuna, and in 2001, the bank's assets made a profit of 894 million kuna. In 2008, the total assets amounted to 377 billion kuna, so 2.5 times the annual profit was 4.6 billion kuna five and a few times more than the profits made in 2001. At the same time, many business entities and the population of the Republic of Croatia are convulsing in problems. It's a long-term unsustainable and unnatural relationship. It is undeniable that the whole world, even one Switzerland, felt the consequences of the devastating global crisis and it was not possible for the economy of the Republic of Croatia to feel the consequences in part. Individence is one of the biggest problems in Croatia economic activity. But it's also undeniable that a lot of money ended up in the capital market and in speculative companies. Some investment funds have grown tremendously and in conditions where other economic operators could not obtain loans for a new investment or new production. It is undeniable that the capital market also slowed down, that there was uncontrollable imports and that only one year of liquidity, the banks granted more consumer loans than loans to companies. For a long time, we will feel the consequences that this huge liquidity from previous times ended up wrong in consumption and that this strong financial leverage was used by the non-productive and service sector rather than the economy. We all know that the main objectives of economic policy are to increase production, increase employment rates and maintain price stability. This can only be achieved through an active economic policy and a coherent action of fiscal and monetary policy. But there is no need to ignore the fact that under the conditions of economic crisis, under the fall of economic activity, under the conditions of an increase in the unemployment rate as the most effective weapon in achieving the basic economic objectives, monetary policy has been shown. Because only the lower price of money, and thus lower interest rates can stimulate economic activity and stimulate investment. The HDZ Club accepts the 2008 Croatian National Bank Report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33968	Thank you. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33969	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen from the Croatian National Bank, colleagues and colleagues. In this particular debate unexpected, truly unexpected, included in the debate and debate on the Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank without any logic of the agenda, the order of the agenda and my first and key question why and why? Is this a very quality report that we received from the Croatian National Bank as well as all other quality reports so far worth such an opportunity to debate? I repeat without, it's not tied to the agenda points or to the order, completely unexpected. However, regardless of this engineering introduction point in the debate of the plenary session. In any case, I take the opportunity to congratulate the people of the Croatian People's Party on behalf of the club in the Croatian People's Bank on the work done. First of all on preparedness, no matter how many times we have agreed here, we have not agreed, but in any case good protection, the consequence of the financial crisis in the world, which is in our midst multipled with our apparent structural, economic problems and is definitely present and finally present and the crisis is the result of definitely and finally structural and economic problems in which we are not since yesterday long, long years. The fact is already said for this speaker, that for the success of each economy, the success or the ability or efficiency in creating a new value, which is our goal, that two basic levers are important and harmony between these levers, and that is the monetary authority managed by the Croatian National Bank and fiscal government of the Republic of Croatia. The quality of this harmony, the more conditions for creating a new value are better and the possibilities for creating a new value are better. What harmony is with us is evident, it is also known that the economic growth we have is also the one that we are talking about, and the fact is that according to the International Monetary Fund report that we are, by the growth of a gross social product of 28 transition countries, the second worst, that economic growth at this point is twice as small as economic growth in countries in our immediate environment. This is evident, but I repeat this is the consequence of both monetary and fiscal and harmony between them. And when we talk about economic growth, we definitely can't commit to 2008, we can't commit to 2007, or to 2006, but we have to commit to all the years backwards. And in those years, what conditions have we created with the cooperation of monetary and fiscal authorities, so today we have a chance to harvest, so today we have an opportunity for economic growth, so today we have an opportunity for our entire economy. That's obvious. How much in this is the participation of the Croatian National Bank through monetary policy in all these years, not so far in 2008, not in 2007, not in 2006, let's start in the '90s, and that's a second question and that's a matter of serious debates that have been conducted. However, as is true if the arguments do not pass without the fact, our anti-recession measures, measures by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. That's a fact. And a third, very important thing. In fact, it is present in public and completely justified, completely justified, because this damage is directly suffered by the citizens on their backs, which is moralizing over the bank's profits. So let's cut with taxes, and let's go with this, so that's correct, so it's moral. And to all these questions the answers that follow are completely justified, but whether with those answers we are able to change that. And my key issue towards the Croatian National Bank, which is whether the Croatian National Bank together with us in this assembly, are we able to determine according to the change in interest rates? Do our banks have the right to change the interest rates they contract? And because of these changes in interest rates, many citizens are entering an extremely difficult social situation. Do they have a right? Every international contract we discuss in this House is tied, interest is tied to liber, each, so much plus liber. What is the reference point of our business banks to which they bind the decision to change interest rates? Surely they have a reason, but are we as responsible, state, above all the Croatian National Bank, are we able to determine by that? Yes, gentlemen, you're right, but under these terms and conditions, or gentlemen, you have no right. Or maybe I don't have a right. I think that in this whole story, the Croatian National Bank should assume some of its responsibilities, and this is clear rules to be determined according to the recorded problem, clear rules to define the rules of the game, clear rules to be determined according to the debt that must be determined, that this debt does not depend on some business policy or compensation for the management of a business bank that is normally linked to the result of the bank, and I think that as a responsible state to our citizens in this segment we have space, we have opportunities and we need the responsibility to have a simple space which very skilledly use of business banks to limit it, to narrow it down to some reference points and some rules of conduct. Because by moralizing over the profits of our business banks, we're not going to do anything concrete for our citizens. And it is crucial and finally I repeat, we in the Croatian People's Party will support this report, but at the same time we ask whether the Croatian National Bank has the power, whether it is in synergy with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, whether it is in synergy with this Parliament and has the strength to create a system that will monitor and control the complete situation on the credit market, and above all in the possibility that very skilled banks are using, and that is traffic at interest rates without a set reference point according to their free assessment normally, with always those explanations that are present. And the fact is that in some countries we've had today, today you have a chance to read all your colleagues and colleagues. For this very reason, the Governor of the National Bank advises your citizens to sue the business banks, and we as the National Bank are willing to give you all the support to succeed. And that's the National Bank's responsibility. It's the National Bank's responsibility. If we can use that possibility, if we can do it, we'll see in time ahead of us. But I believe that through concrete measures we must translate our responsibility into concrete, expected results, rather than moralise over the profits of business banks. After all, that is their goal, but as far as we've made it possible for them, that's another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33970	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the honourable representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33971	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, representatives of the Croatian National Bank, Deputy Governor. At the beginning, I would say that, personally and personally, I would like to support this report primarily because it is what it is, and it points to certain things that are happening in our economy and points to certain things that have happened in Croatia in the past year and which, unfortunately, is deepening and continues this year. What is common in this report of the CNB for 2008 and the one that is yet to come to the agenda of this Parliament, which is the first half of 2009. One of the fundamental things that are common to these two reports is primarily that they will not have the visible impact of anti-recession measures, i.e. government activities to help the Croatian economy and citizens. And for which they will be gone, and they will not be seen in the account because of their absence. They were not even there at the end of 2008, when the whole world, Europe didn't just talk about spilling the crisis like we're talking about, but the debate is a little bit boring when you listen to arguments from the government and HDZ. The crisis that is all our fault, and in my opinion, the crisis which is one of the most universal and general excuses of the HDZ government because it did not prepare Croatia for what is coming. And what we can do here in some way and commenting on this CNB report is that we also congratulate on the work of the CNB and that it has secured in one important segment economic stability and what has been planted, in some way it has planted its back on these uncertain times in which Croatia is located. Unfortunately, the effect would be much stronger if this synergy were on the side and the government, if the government had a vision and knowledge of how to deal with these difficult times, how to help Croatian citizens and the economy. What is seen from the report is some fundamental things, it appears that inflation was at an average level of 6.1%. When we combine countries with which we like to compare much larger ones. When we watch what happens this year. This year's inflation, although the crisis and recession in the world and already at the end of last year came to a decrease in prices in Croatia, was 3.8% in March this year and yet if we were to compete with the countries with which we wanted to compete and which are in our neighbourhood and there is no reason to be more successful than we in that segment, let's say, Slovenia where it was 1.6% or Hungary that had one percentage point of inflation less. As for GDP last year, 2.4% of the lowest last year is after a long series of years, and we slowly remember those times in '99. the years we had negative economic growth. Together then and now Croatia is that HDZ is in power. I think that for citizens and for all of us who are here discussing it is a strong enough argument to see that, unfortunately, when negative economic growth in Croatia is tied up and that is the rule of HDZ. On the other hand, we expect negative growth up to -5% this year, and ultimately we are not even sure how it will end, given that neither those who should have data, who should propose a budget for this year from month to month, go public with data that is worse and worse, and the question is what kind of data we are going to propose in the 9 month budget. The assumptions are now we'll be happy if this fall, I don't say growth, isn't greater than 5%. Unemployment, again, is the story that unfortunately Croatian citizens feel every day and feel the work of this government and HDZ, so I'm not just talking about a workless Sunday that we see falling in the Constitutional Court, that we're not talking about smoking, or smoking in objects, banned smoking in buildings and cafes that in this difficult recession year lead to thousands of more of our citizens out of work. But we're talented at it. When it's hard, the HDZ government makes our citizens even harder. And then pass laws that will further slow economic growth. We are talking about tourism and we expect tourism to save us this year and in some ways we look at how many tourists will visit Croatia, whether it will mean additional inflow... /The speaker has been turned off, so it is turned back on./... Please don't turn off the microphone. And will that mean at the 9th month maybe when planning the budget a smaller drop than it was when we did the rebalance at the 4th month. But it is clear that this answer will unfortunately be defeated. This year, tourism will be very bad, much worse than Minister Bajs expects, and I am slowly intimidated by the thought and his announcements when he says we depend on last minute arrangements on what kind of tourism this year will be. This just shows that there is no vision, no strategy, no anything to know and plan revenues on which Croatia should survive this recession year more easily. And as for the unemployed, from the 9th month of last year, around 5 to 6 thousand of our citizens are out of work every month. This trend is extremely negative and this year we can expect 50, 60 thousand more unemployed. Standards and salaries are daily absolutely Croatian citizens witness that less and less can be bought for their salaries. As for the single and nominal growth that was up to the end of the year, and the real growth that was around 1% by the end of the year, these 2.3 months this year is negative and every month Croatian citizens can buy less for their salaries. When, of course, we add an even negative impact of interest growth and credit costs, it is clear that Croatian citizens do not see the end of the black news that is happening in this recession year. And what I'd like to point out in the end, I support the report. I know this year will be worse, as far as Croatian citizens are concerned. So, the CNB won't be able to write anything positive this year, but what worries about this government and this majority has no vision or concept of how to help Croatia this year. There are minorities, and unfortunately you do not listen to our suggestions, because if you listen to our suggestions, it would be much easier for you to lead this Croatia. At least we're trying, gentlemen, to get some suggestions out, we haven't seen yours at all. And finally, it worries because the moves we see from day to day, how the state is run, is enough to make a little pressure to then because the next election will come in six months for the president to give in. It means that there's absolutely no vision of where we're going and I just hope our current prime minister doesn't think that at the presidential elections at the end of this year, it's his exit strategy. There is no exit strategy, Croatia must be helped and this can only be done with proposals and vision and some concrete activities that are absolutely missing in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33972	Thank you. First of all, we have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, the honourable representative Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33973	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Article 210 that says, the speaker can only talk about the subject under the established agenda. We haven't heard anything from 70% of the debate on the agenda, about the National Bank report, but we've heard about the ban on smoking, about tourism, about everything, just not about the topic of the agenda. The same article says that if the speaker moves away from the agenda theme, the chairman will warn that he is holding the agenda. I think that you should have warned an esteemed representative that he's sticking to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33974	I thank you for your attempt to prove that it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. It was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because I agree that in certain topics something away from the topic, but mostly kept the topic. So, you know if you were so precise all the others, then it would be very often breaking up here. Now we have several corrections of incorrect allegations. And that's Kronoslav Markovnović first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33975	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, since a new campaign has begun and Mr. Maras has fallen normally into the HDZ, besides the fact that when it's hard for people, HDZ makes everything harder and harder. However, I think you SDPs are known "joy killers", so you kill everything that's positive for people, what people experience by claiming to them when they're good, that they're bad, when they're bad that they're worse. So, gentlemen, stand in front of the mirror and tell me who's who.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33976	Thank you. The second is the correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Mario Zubovic. Please make a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33977	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd fix Mr. Maras. He said this government has no vision, but that the minority has that vision. We saw, we had a chance to see four years ago, Mr. Maras probably wasn't then, four years ago, which were their visions, and I can say since the report is accepted, I said that he accepted a report from the National Bank, that the National Bank was certainly working with the government and that the government was satisfied with the work of the National Bank. And what your experts have proposed, the government has also rejected, and the Croatian National Bank would have refused. And lucky you weren't able to impose some of your own solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33978	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. He's giving up. Let's move on. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33979	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I would like to correct Mr. Maras' incorrect claim that this government has no vision and that nothing is doing to improve the economic situation. I'm sure that's incorrect. The Croatian government, including the Croatian National Bank as a monetary policy, made huge efforts to preserve the country's macroeconomic stability. And then when financial systems fell in other countries, this government and this Croatian People's Bank precisely preserved macroeconomic stability through monetary and fiscal policy measures. Here we had earlier on the board report HBO where a series of credit lines provided assistance to our economies to get over this crisis better. If I wasn't convinced that this is such a small political demagogue, I'd think you have some problems with Croatia itself, because you keep calling out for some evil, some problems. All the worst and blackest things I don't think are good.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33980	Thank you. And we have the final correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33981	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting an incorrect claim that the government has no vision and no strategy. It is true and it is true that the Government has a vision and a strategy which has also proved to be anti-recessional measures that we can see and feel on a daily basis and that have its purpose and purpose and its character. Unlike your anti-recession measures that were supposed to mean another 15 billion that should obviously be invented to get to them. And it's obvious that as counterpart Markovanovic said, there's still another election going on, so you're preparing yourself for a campaign that won't work, and obviously you're doing what you've done before, and that's the truth. The true claim is that you are trying together with part of the media to cause chaos among the people. But it won't work as usual. The winners will be us again.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33982	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33983	Mr. Vice President, Deputy Governor, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As with the previous period, the Croatian National Bank has offered us a very good report and a description of its work in which there were no objections in the defined law in the Croatian People's Bank, and here, indeed, in the course of the debate so far. So I will personally be happy to support this report for 2008. But I would like very briefly in a few sentences to look back at the macroeconomic environment that actually ruled in 2008, very briefly worldwide, and then as reflected in Croatian. As we know, the world has been shaken by a financial crisis that almost broke the financial market, the global financial market. In Croatia, however, despite warnings and the assessment that the banking system is stable, because it was not like the Croatian banks as small banks were not so exposed to these world trends that ruled on the global financial market, which is true and what is good and which has managed to preserve the stability of the banking system, it is a big deal for Croatia. However, we did have earthquakes on other parts of the financial market, primarily on the stock exchange. And there were actually dramatic moments and situations for some of the participants in the market. However, we ignore in Croatia the other part of the crisis which is far more dangerous and difficult for Croatia, which is an economic crisis that is not only a reflection of this financial economic, global crisis, it is actually deeply rooted in the structure and economic system of Croatia. In fact, we do not want to open a deeper and wider discussion, and after such discussions, we are actually taking some measures. The government is advertising about it, she didn't even want to hold a debate about it, let alone do something until February of this year. In fact, when the governor of the Croatian National Bank actually announced in the summer of last year all these moments that affected us in 2008 and extended to 2009, he was welcomed as the owner of the bad news. Actually, it was supposed to be ignored that way. I can say for my part that the monetary government did everything in its power and that the law allowed. Unfortunately, our executive authority did not do what it had to do. And what are the consequences of that? Ignoring that Croatia could ever be in crisis and this in a serious economic crisis was, in fact, the budget that we made in the 12th month that was known in advance to be unsustainable and for a very long time being said there was no need to change. However, when the state itself found itself in a financial crisis, it was actually the reason to form a budget rebalance so that additional borrowing on the foreign market could take place. What are the other consequences? The consequences are the delay in measures that would in fact be in some way going to meet with you to solve the crisis. So then already in May we had the beginning of a decline in industrial production which then fell continuously for months. In the economy, they say if you have a five-month drop in industrial production, then you're in crisis. We already have not five months, but almost 9 and 10 months are at that stage that we have a decline in industrial production. And what's happening to us now? At the end of the year we have a decline in industrial production, we have a decline in GDP because we don't have industrial production, but we don't have consumption that significantly generated the growth of social gross products, the population is over-indebted, the receipts are small, the obligations are high. Therefore, the minimum cost of a four-member family cannot be covered with average Croatian salary, and that is why we are now gliding, we have no more growth, but we will have a decline in the social gross product. It has already been said here, the last quarter of 2.4% of the lowest growth in social gross product since 2000. The beginning of this year I think in two or three months over 5% of the social gross product drop. We have a downturn in trade, we are deepening deficits in the balance of payments and goods and, of course, that all of this is followed by a drop in employment and a rise in unemployment. We have one terrible liquidity situation again. For the time being, unpaid findings are over 16 billion kuna. However, how unpaid these obligations are at this point, in fact, no one in Croatia dares to assess them. What's the final sequence of all this? We got a drop in state credit rating at the beginning of the year. And I'm just going to quote the forecasts of two respected Bonetti houses. The D&B credit rating house says it is talking about lowering the credit rating in Croatia and it is based on an assessment that the anti-recession measures taken by the government in February will not actually be effective and will not improve the country's economic outlook. Unfortunately, we haven't realised anything since that package of ten anti-recession measures. While Fitch ratings agency says it has changed, it has changed Croatia's forecast of long-term commitment ability in domestic and foreign currency from stable to negative, which we really must be seriously concerned about. Discussions and dilemmas whether we need the International Monetary Fund or we can do it ourselves I think it's even declassified to talk about it. However, it is urgent that we are actually five after 12 as regards certain interventions that should be done that is correct. And I think it's high time we didn't just stay on those measures, not to pile up measures, intentions to measure or measure the government president's intention to tell us that he's going to go with new anti-recession measures, in fact, even those existing ones aren't realised. I think that such a situation is unsustainable and that there is a need for serious account and discussion in all segments of society. In the end, let me just say that for the second time there was a situation that the government intervened in the Croatian National Bank report. In 2004, it was dissatisfied that the Croatian National Bank presented the 2003 deficit as well as intervened in this way while it is now dissatisfied that in three segments the Croatian National Bank has actually informed the Croatian Parliament about the fact that it refers to the exclusion of Croatian highways from a consolidated general state. Only four, five, six years ago, this with a big pomp actually took place in a consolidated state and increased deficits, then on net debt and on the general debt of the state. I think it is not good for the government to intervene in such a way in the Croatian National Bank report, which is autonomous to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33984	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative, Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33985	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the Croatian National Bank, colleagues and colleagues. Right at the beginning to plead. According to the Croatian National Bank, the Croatian National Bank fully achieved its tasks in 2008 but economic policy as well as the Croatian National Bank's policy is an opportunity to discuss when it comes to the Parliament. You will agree that state economic policy cannot be led on a daily basis, so it cannot even be discussed as a day-to-day political issue. It is necessary to say that Croatia has the same economic policy since the 1994 Stabilisation Programme and that Croatian policy has characterized a high unemployment rate since then and in absolute unemployment figures in Croatia has never since fallen below 250 thousand workers. Then, this economic policy characterizes up to the last year a relatively low rate of inflation but let us not forget that this economic policy must be settled and has a constant settlement of commitments towards the growing number of pensioners and the social care of these unemployed social workers. Only these few parameters make it clear that you do not have to be a macro-economicist that such an economic policy is not suitable for Croatian social needs. Such a policy will not be possible for long because both pensioners and unemployed and those who work cannot live from their work, so this policy does not offer perspective. Simply such a policy ignores broad social layers and their needs, and in this context it also ignores national interests. Such a policy is in favour of a very narrow layer of social traders, Croatian traders and international capital. In fact, Croatia's banking policy in general has been aimed at financing consumption by financing and spending from foreign imports of goods, which is being reported to see that the trade balance with the abroad is constantly worse and worse. If we add that the balance of payments is also worrying, then there is no need for another qualification of that policy. It should be added that the time has come for social question number one that the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government decide for whose benefit these economic policies lead. Is this economic policy in favour of those who live off their work or is this policy intended for a narrow layer of traders and so on. Croatian banks which are actually on this kind of policy are working in favour of maximising their profits rather than in the national interest. Foreign ownership of Croatian business banks narrows the possibility of Croatian credit policy truth in the role of national economic policy. Permanent lending from abroad is actually an increase in the supply of money in the country so it creates additional efforts but since it is in the Croatian government or, it is constantly a pleasure that we have managed to maintain stability and is never spoken of, or is not even trying to discuss whose burden is built on stability, to whom it pays and to whom it goes in interest. Then I think it is to conclude that the Croatian economic stagnation and recession will last as long as Croatian politics continue to run in the interest of the narrow layer of Croatian citizens, foreign traders and so on. Croatian banks. In this context, it is very important to mention that the Croatian Bank can boast that it has achieved a legally established task if it does not intend to monitor the interests of Croatian society in its action, especially if it does not want to affect the economic policy of the Republic of Croatia, which definitely does not provide a good perspective for the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In this context, I can only say that we can say that the law is satisfied but that citizens are unhappy. If that was the goal, then we have done our job, it seems to me that this is not the goal of most representatives in the Croatian Parliament, so we should open the topic of how to introduce special social justice into Croatian politics and that all classes of society participate equally in both crisis and development. Until such a debate is held, we will really vote on accepting the report and boasting about how we have ensured stability but we will not say that this stability is on the shoulders of an ordinary Croatian worker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33986	I'd like to ask for a little more patience. We've got two more individual discussions, one five minutes on behalf of the club, so I'd like to give you a little attention to bringing this to an end. Honorable representative Nadica Jelash is on her way now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33987	Dear Vice President, Deputy Governor, colleagues and colleagues. So this report by the Croatian National Bank shows what measures the Croatian monetary bank is, as the bank itself said in 2008 it has done its primary task and this is maintaining price stability. And we must all acknowledge this because Europe and the world have also recognised that, unfortunately, the Croatian National Bank has done its job properly in this country as a central monetary authority, unlike the executive legislative and particularly judicial authorities. The Croatian National Bank has indeed confirmed itself as the strongest factor on the bumper, under the allegations of financial stability and the security of our country. Because if it were not for the current global financial crisis, it would literally rock Croatia's economic reality, i.e. to a far greater extent, expose the accumulated problems of the Croatian economy that did not come from the outside, making it hard to convince us that it is domestic, so it is ours, it is made in Croatia. And we're reading the weight of the economic situation from this report from the Croatian National Bank, it's all about the record to record. Here's an example that works. The lowest real growth of domestic gross product in the last 10 years was achieved in 2008. It's only 2.4%. Furthermore, the lowest growth in imports of goods and services has been achieved in the past 10 years, it is only 3.6%, the highest foreign debt has been achieved so far, with a total of €39 billion. Unfortunately, this sequence of unspeakable records continues in 2009. That's how we have the highest unemployment rate. Since September 2008, therefore, more than 50,000 Croatian workers have been out of work since the start of the recession until 31 March 2009. Furthermore, Minister Shuker assured us by selling state bonds of 750m euros in May this year the highest debt since the beginning of an independent Croatia, etc., we could list more of these infamous records. However, not everyone in Croatia is difficult. While the economy and citizens died to Croatia's lottery and Croatian business banks, it dawned. As far as I'd say, business banks have capitalized the Croatian recession. I'll confirm that with some data. The total assets, i.e. the assets of the commercial banks at the end of 2008, amounted to HRK 371 billion and amounted to HRK 26 billion from the same day of 2007. It is indicative that more than half of this increase in activity achieved throughout 2008 was achieved precisely in the last quarter of 2008 when the activity rate was the highest. Unlike banks, the economy in the same last quarter of 2008 was already groaning under the pressure of recession. So the banks didn't share the fate of the economy but profited the most at the end of the year when the economy was the hardest. It seems that in Croatia there is no golden rule that there are no good banks without a good economy or a good economy without good banks. Other information that confirms that banks have capitalised the recession is the following. So it's a high profit that banks continue to make and that shows that they have too much market power. In fact, pre-tax profits amounted to nearly 6 billion kuna in 2008, an increase of 13.7% compared to the achievement in 2007. However, what I would like to stress is a change in the cause of the increase in profits compared to 2007. In fact, while in 2007, the primary reason for the increase in profits was the revenue from fees and fees for bank products and services, in 2008, the main source of profit increases was interest revenues. This is also the interest income from loans from approved countries and loans granted to Croatian citizens, with interest revenues from the state increased due to an increase in the volume of approved loans, i.e. the population's volume of credit granted. However, the price of approved loans is therefore increased, i.e. in particular, the interest on long-term loans has been increased. However, the highest jump recorded interest rates on the most representative sub-categories of credit, so on indicative loans which are citizens most unfortunately used a source of funds for the regiment, daily survival. Despite the Prime Minister's appeals, banks continue to raise interest rates in 2009. Here we know the last case of the Zagreb Bank. Finally, I have to say that after Croatia has been literally eldorado for the bankers for years, and the banking industry was the most profitable segment of the Croatian economy, banks' administrations have been increasingly calling for research by the Croatian Banks' Association that the profitability of banks in Croatia has been measured by the rate of return to invested capital has fallen to the lowest level in this decade. That's another record this decade. And that the high growth in interest expenditure has turned the Croatian banking system, despite still high profits, into one of the least attractive for investment in Europe. Indeed, interest costs are increasing sharply due to the high growth of passive interest that banks approve in the overall misery of the committees, or their money. And as they want to keep the same profit level, banks are forced to increase active interest rates, i.e. to spill interest rates on credit users. So those who have money are getting richer, and those who don't have money, so they have to borrow it at high interest, they get poorer. Of course, banks always profit in every situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33988	Thank you. And on behalf of the SDP club, at the end of five minutes, honourable representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33989	Your Honor, Vice President. In the debate we heard, it's possible to conclude a few things. The report by the Croatian National Bank made it right, much faster than last year and it paints a Croatian picture of what is happening in the country and indicators that unfortunately are not good at the end of last year, and even worse this year. We heard all sorts of things, we heard here that the Croatian government is fighting the recession hard and every day, that anti-recession measures can be seen and felt daily, but the results are this. Growth in 2008, never less than 1999, will be negative in the following year. Never a major drop in industrial production. Indifference in the economy over 16 billion. No one pays anyone, companies are in debt to settle their current obligations. We've sent a law on how to resolve indifference, you won't accept it because you've never been one before. In the last half of the year, a Dubrovnik lost its job. Dubrovnik people. Our credit risk increased at one point so that we were side by side of the most risky credit countries and therefore the interest rate grew. And what kind of problems the government had was saying enough that we weren't. We barely sold the bonds so we could service the current debts. 39 billion euros in external debt is the external debt balance of all sectors in Croatia. The real fall in wages in the second half of the year depicts what is happening on the labour market as well. Public spending at 49% of GDP is one of the largest in Europe and we have one of the largest public sectors in Europe and that is the World Bank's assessment. High public expenditures, the World Bank said, have a negative impact on the distribution of resources, and thus on growth. 35% of total GDP is the upper limit on which fiscal balance can be maintained. Croatia has 49% of GDP of the share of public expenditure, so we exceeded it by 50%. Structural reforms, according to the World Bank, are insufficient and weak fiscal consolidation efforts. If we remember that there were never bigger problems in shipbuilding, if we remember that there were never more subsidies in agriculture and in other sectors of industry, so instead of reducing subsidies, that the economy is stronger, that it is self-sufficient to fight its problems, we increase those subsidies. What about Croatian railways where it was never harder? What about the Croatian Post Office? What about the reform of the state sector? What about health reform? What about all structural reforms that have not been made and that have been delayed? These are all the problems Croatia is facing. We have no reason to be optimistic. I believed that it might be up to us who sent 25 as a club of SDP anti-recession proposals, good to warn you, and good to encourage you to support some of these things and try to come up with anti-recession proposals. We in this House of Government have seen only a few creative laws with the consequences of which they spoke. I used to think that it was better to try to solve these problems together, or to send your anti-recession proposals. Today I think it's best if you don't do anything and don't send an anti-recession proposal, I have a feeling we'll pass better.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33990	Thank you. We have two corrections. First Mr. Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33991	Thank you very much, Mr. President. An esteemed colleague made a series of inaccuracies just to declare the disaster in Croatia. He said, among other things, I will correct that the credit rating of Croatia has fallen. It's not true that the credit rating fell, it's just the difference that we have credit rating currencies and credit rating kunas. It's just that the credit rating in kunas has dropped. And it is not good for a colleague from the SDP to be this disastrously depicting the situation in Croatia, because it really is not, but we can only give praise to the Croatian National Bank and the Croatian Government for preventing the disaster that you would have made if you had come to power because you had such proposals. You actually had a program like that before the election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33992	Thank you. Dr. Crescent. Andrija Hebrang, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33993	Thank you very much. Well, a fellow poet needs a little correction. The results of the anti-recession measures are measurable in numbers, not in songs. And they show in the region the only increase in wages at 6 months of recession is the Republic of Croatia. Minimum decline in gross social product, increase in industrial production 1.5% in the last six months despite recession. Minimum reduction in gross national income from all countries in Europe. These are the elements on which we should judge government anti-recession measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33994	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Gordan Maras, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33995	Article 210 was injured and Mr Hebrang corrected the incorrect claim by an incorrect fact. It can't do that, and it's that smallest drop. Don't let me say another sentence! That the smallest fall in the region had been experienced by Croatia. That's absolutely incorrect. Slovenia needs to be looked at, and you will understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-19-0.u33996	It wasn't the injured Rules of Procedure that you were correcting in your opinion the incorrect assumption. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide later. We move to the Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2008. The applicant is the Croatian National Bank. The debate is closed. In accordance with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2008. a year." Please, let's get involved and vote. I'm asking for a result. This annual report was accepted by most votes, 95 votes for and 1 against, with nothing abstention.
