ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24873	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 8th session of the Croatian Parliament, I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Dr. Ivo Sanader, vice presidents and vice presidents and present members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This session begins with a regular session of the Croatian Parliament, which, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, begins on 15 January and ends on 15 July. I invite you to pay our respects at the beginning of the session to the homeland by performing the "Beautiful Our Homeland" anthem. - Himna - Ladies and gentlemen MPs, presidents and members of the government I invite you to pay a minute of silence to the fallen Croatian defenders, all the civilian victims of the war and all the fallen ones for Croatia. - A moment of silence - May eternal praise and glory be upon them! Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the minutes of the 7th session of the Croatian Parliament were received at the session. Any objections to the record? There isn't. I find that we have adopted a representative of the 7th session of the Parliament in the proposed text. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. I have included three new points in the final draft agenda, under regular number 33, 45 and 47, which are: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Montenegro on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. 251. Proposal for a Decision establishing an investigative fact-finding committee on the procurement of 39 military trucks by the IORH in December 2004. Proposer: 38 representatives of the SDP Club. And the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Relations, First Reading, P.Z. No. 250; Proposer: Representative Dragutin Lesar. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. We decided on the urgency of the procedure for points 5 and 7 of the final draft agenda at the last session. These are the final draft laws amending and supplementing the Credit Union Act, P.Z. No. 231 and Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union military operation in the Republic of Chad and the Central African Republic. (EUFOR TCHAD/RCA), P.Z. No. 217. In addition to the acts in the final draft agenda, paragraphs 18 to 24 and points 27 to 30 of and 33 of the laws proposed under the emergency procedure are set out. These are: Proposal for a law to confirm the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Community in relation to the national programme for Croatia under the IPA programme, the transition assistance component and the strengthening of institutions for 2007, with the Final Bill proposal, therefore, is an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. Point 18.240. Secondly, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the State of Qatar on the avoidance of double taxation and prevention of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax avoidance by the Final Proposal for the Law, that is, P.Z. No. Point 241 of point 19 in the agenda. Third, Proposal for a Law on Areas and Headquarterss of Violent Courts with a final draft law, also an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. Point 239 of point 20. Proposal for a law on civil servants' salaries with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 244, point 21. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions, with the final proposal of the Law, P.Z.E. No. 248, point 22. Proposal for a labour law, with the final draft law, P.Z.E. No. 243, point 23. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of a contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Morocco on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of payment of income tax, with the final proposal for a law, P.Z.E. No. 239, point 24. Proposal for a law confirming a financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities for a multiannual operational programme, the development of human potential to assist communities in pre-accession assistance instruments as part of the human potential development component in Croatia, with the final proposal for a law, P.Z.E. No. Point 245, point 27. Proposal for a Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Marco Polo II programme, with the final proposal for a law, P.Z.E. No. 246, point 28. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on mutual protection and exchange of classified data, with the final proposal for a law, P.Z.E. No. 247, point 29. Proposal for a law establishing the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, with final proposal for a law, P.Z.E. No. 249, point 30. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Montenegro on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal, with the final proposal of the law, P.Z.E. No. 251, point 33. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws? Yeah. Here you go. Vice-President Željka Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24874	Mr President, on behalf of the SDP Club, I comment on the proposal, on the urgent procedure of the proposal for a law on the salaries of civil servants, with a final proposal, regardless of its bearing the P.Z.E. mark. In fact, we are assessing the very reasons for the adoption of the law and its content that it is not really a matter of, just compliance with the acquis of the European Union. It is about much broader and much more serious content that addresses some serious and key issues. The law itself engulfs the rights of nearly 70,000 officials who work in different public services. Unfortunately, no agreement has been reached in the process of preparing the law and the content of the law with the social partners is not in line. The European Union has really serious objections that we fully respect, but they concern system ineffectiveness, non-implementation of existing law, a completely inadequate evaluation of the contributions and work of individual officials, the privilege on a political basis, the submission on the political basis of one, and the repression against others who may have different political views. Unfortunately for you, these are the problems burdening civil servants and the public service, and therefore we think that this law should be debated. He's got some good suggestions to work on, but we're proposing a regular procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24875	Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24876	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. Point 23. Final proposal of the Labour Act P.Z.E. 243. Although this bill bears the label P.Z.E., there is the possibility that this law can be discussed in two readings, especially if the proposer accepts it and I suggest that we have the Labour Act in two readings, so that this should be the first one, and at this session and second reading in order to enable the social partners to have another attempt to comply by the end of this session of the Parliament. I don't think that in a termological sense would be much of a distraction from the time-limit for the adoption of this law, given that the law introduces some new institutes in working legal relations and some existing abolitions. I think it would be good for the government and the social partners to give those 10 days of time to try to coordinate... So my proposal to the proposer is two readings at this session. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24877	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Sima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24878	Thank you very much, Mr. E President. On behalf of the SDP Club, I propose that the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Battles be referred to a regular procedure since it is not a law bearing the P.Z.E. label, and we believe that this problem is very complex and significant. Unfortunately, we've had more and more frequent lately, and this... to export Croatian hooligans to Europe, so beyond our borders, and in view of the public's interest and given certain opinions of the same public and professional public, that this law, in part, restricts human rights which are not in this law until the end, we propose, or ask, that nothing will essentially change that this law goes into two readings in order to get a quality law that will actually be enforceable and that will give results because I believe that we are all interested in stopping hooligan behaviour on sports sites and the environment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24879	Thank you. Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24880	Your Honor, Mr. President. The IDS Club also wants to reflect on this Law on civil servants' salaries. I don't know whose rights that law is in the way, but I do know it's getting deep into the state budget. For the implementation of one such law at this time, I will not say in one bankrupt Croatia, 750 million kuna weighs. I repeat, 750 million kuna. That in my court is simple, these are assets that are not possible at this time and my would be a proposal not to go into another reading, but to simply withdraw it from the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24881	Thank you. Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24882	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HNS Club, I would also like to say a few words about the procedure relating to the Law on civil servants' salaries. We discussed it on several committees and actually came to the conclusion that this law is going in the right direction and that the intensities of the law are positive, but that first ultimately there was no agreement with the social partners. And secondly, that some solutions are truly inappropriate, so they may also be affected by the right equality of all before the law. So, in one constitutional category, and therefore the HNS club suggests that precisely because one more quality law could be made out of this, let's allow ourselves two readings so that we can do it in those two readings. As for time, it can be done in two readings in the first half of the year, even in a shorter time. Therefore, we would have no objection to harmonising with the acquis of the European Union because it is not even harmonising with the acquis, but rather meeting one of the four Copenhagen criteria. So I suggest on behalf of the HNS Club just so we can make something out of this that would be a quality step to put the law into two readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24883	Thank you. Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24884	On behalf of the SDP club, I would like to appeal to the Prime Minister to allow the Labour Act to go into two readings in this House. I think that, according to our knowledge, nothing will happen in harmonising our legislation with the European Union if we allow ourselves a little more time to really seriously discuss the Labour Act the more Mr Polancec did yesterday, which was a kind of precedent in the work of this Parliament, which is that in all possible ways he tried to stop the debate in the parliamentary committees in the Labour Act. So in this building, Parliamentarians discuss what they have on the benches. We have the Raed Act and it would be good, given that there are many institutes that are controversial in the negotiations, so there are agreements between unions and employers. Since I think we all care that these apply to offices in one quality way, since the Labour Act is therefore a law that protects workers' rights. It is a fundamental law to protect workers' rights and a fundamental law to regulate the relationship between employers and workers, I think it would be good to really discuss this law seriously in this House and then, in two readings, what can be done at this session or you can withdraw the law, so when it is still done in agreement with trade unions and employers, that we get it in the emergency procedure. If not, then at least let us discuss it in two readings and really pass a law that will be of quality and will satisfy therefore all that we must comply with European legislation. But primarily a law that will be quality in regulating the relationship between employers and workers and that will really protect workers' rights because at this point the existing law does not, therefore, provide. Well, here you are, we urge you to discuss it in two readings after all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24885	Thank you. Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24886	Dear Mr. President, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I have an objection to the urgent procedure of item 23, so the draft labour law. I believe that a million 604848 workers employed per 31.12.2008 deserve their fundamental rights of discussion in two readings at this session. So, not with the waste of time at another session, but on two readings at this session. I know that this country and getting out of recession depend exactly on these workers and I think we can give them so much attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24887	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24888	Mr. President, at the 7th session of Croatia, so at this last session under item 46, there was a proposal for a declaration of conviction of the holding. For the 8th session, the agenda was once again foreseen under point 46. Given the passage of time and the fact that on the very ambitious agenda of this session of the Assembly, I am of the opinion that this item of the agenda should be placed earlier in view of friendly relations with the Republic of Ukraine. Here we were yesterday marking the day of the Holocaust, and this is something like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24889	This was possible to make an observation of the urgency, only the urgency, not the order of the dots. Okay. Thank you very much. Here, the Prime Minister wants to make a statement on some proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24890	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. There are a few suggestions I mean very good, and some of us will refuse with a strong argument. First of all, I think it's a good idea to consider the Law on Civil Service Payments in two readings, and that's where we accept the proposal of the clubs that suggested it, but not because it's not good or that it deprives the rights. He increases the rights of civil servants. And that's the point, Madam Vice President. But we're about to discuss it in two readings. Otherwise, I will inform you that with the resolution unions it has been debated for a very long time, that there has been no compromise and that the government's task is to take responsibility. Therefore, at a certain point when we failed to agree we sent the law as we think it is good in the Croatian Parliament. If it's discussed, then we accept that it's debated in two readings. If the debate shows that we have more good or better solutions than we have suggested, we will accept it. But, as you have seen, the IDS club has a very conflicting view that it should be fully withdrawn in view of the situation in which Croatia is located and that for financial reasons it should not go with it at all. We don't represent that opinion. We represent the opposite. We believe that Croatia can and we have thought very well and calculated whether this law can be applied and whether we have financial resources for this law. We do. So I answer to Mr. Cain immediately. You don't have to worry so much about that. Let's make sure we find out more if there are better solutions and that's why we accept two readings. As regards the Law on Fans, i.e. the riots on sports grounds and what Agent Lucin suggested. I'm holding, since the football championship starts very soon in 20 days, it's better to pass that law as soon as possible. There is a sensitized public both Croatian and European, and I believe it is better to pass the law as soon as possible. And we can if, in order to achieve the goal of making it even more quality, and may the President of the Parliament have the power to put the law on the agenda a little later to keep the consultations still. But we keep in the government that it is necessary to pass this law as soon as possible to avoid all these riots that we all condemn together. As far as the Labour Act is concerned, it was the third proposal of a few clubs. I can say that the Labour Act is agreed with the social partners, with the HUP and the trade unions to ask the President of the Parliament to discuss it at the end of the session, thus giving the possibility for a final agreement currently taking place at a bilateral level between trade unions and employers. So our proposal is in line with the unions, with employers not to withdraw it, not to force it, but to also ask for a discussion at the end of the session because the law goes in two steps. It's also a social partners agreement. We talked about it in public, but I will bring it to the Croatian Assembly. The agreement is that, in this first step of amending and supplementing the Labour Act, we are only going with amendments concerning the European Union guidelines. That's right. That's the deal and it's in there. So the second step would be a complete amendment to the law by the end of the year. And that's a social partners agreement that we respect. So, the first step in harmonising with the European Union guidelines and this is what it is now, where the President of the Parliament's application to set it up maybe sometime before the end of the session, that there is still time for the social partners to agree so that through the amendments we can drag it out or always the Government can withdraw it and after the agreement, what Mrs Opačić said, the Government can withdraw, so after the agreement, if the agreement is not reached very quickly between the social partners. Our proposal is in line with the partners to keep the law preferably if the President of the Parliament accepts it to be discussed at the end of the session, and to give time for the social partners to agree. So it's our proposal and I represent all three social partners here today to keep the law, with a request to discuss it eventually, to give time to the social partners to agree. If they don't agree, the government will pull him out.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24891	Thank you. I don't know which one. On behalf of the club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24892	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sorry, but it remains unclear in the Prime Minister's statement whether it's going or not in two readings? I have to say this. The labour law, I'm sorry, that's what I'm talking about. The labour law falls, you said that now it's actually just adapting, and then something's going to be new. At one point you said you'd go in two readings. It's very important to be quite clear to us whether this is a law that goes in 2 readings or this goes into some arrangement, and it doesn't go in two readings, and then something goes in two readings. I warn you, Mr. President, that the Labour Act falls under the Constitution of Article 54, where everyone is said to have the right to work and freedom of work. The regulation of these rights could even be treated as an organic law. Thus, it would not be possible to consider one reading, and perhaps we should not insist on it being an organic law. But I would ask that you possibly make that statement much more explicit than you gave it because we noticed two types of answers to this question.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24893	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Issues and objections have been raised regarding the urgency of the procedure and the Prime Minister has responded to all the observations raised in respect of the 3 draft laws. I don't see any reason for controversy here right now. We will now decide after these here on the Labour Act to remain in an emergency procedure, but to discuss at the end of the session, to give the possibility to make further statements to those who need to be made known. Therefore, I would like to stress that the proposal for a law on the salaries of civil servants, with the final proposal for a law, goes to first reading, P.Z.E. 244. Right? That's right. The draft labour law goes into emergency procedure, by moving the debate on this bill at the end of the session of this 8th session. And the law is in line with the regulations of the European Union and the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law, we do not vote on this second one, we have first accepted to go to first reading. We are going to vote on the urgency of the procedure on the other laws. Please engage and see the quorum. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we can see that many MPs didn't bring the keys, so they didn't even get involved. We can't determine the quorum, except to ask, here it's numbered in the meantime that there are 117 MPs in the assembly, so we have a quorum. So we're going to decide whether or not we're going to raise our hands? There's no other way. Any of the MPs, it's already been the law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions. It was an observation by the representative, Mr. Shima Luchin. That's what the Prime Minister said. So, the proposal remains to be followed by an emergency procedure. Who is for an emergency procedure on the agenda under the urgent procedure of this law, please raise your hand. Yes, Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions No. 248. Thank you. Against? The application of the emergency procedure was accepted, 77 votes for and 40 against. So this point is listed as an emergency procedure. Law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities in connection with the National Programme for Croatia under the IPA programme – a component of transition assistance and strengthening institutions for 2007, P.Z.E. No. The Commission notes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, Who's in favor of the urgency of the procedure? Thank you. Against? I find that an emergency procedure has been adopted unanimously with 117 votes. Law on the confirmation of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the State of Qatar on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax avoidance, P.Z.E. No. 241, point 19. Who's in favor of emergency procedures please raise your hand. Thank you. Do you mind? I find that, unanimously with 117 votes, the urgency of this bill has been accepted. Law on areas and seats of criminal courts P.Z. No. 238, point 20. Please, who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that most of the votes are 114 votes for and 3 against the emergency procedure. Law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Morocco on the avoidance of double taxation and prevention of income tax, P.Z. 239, point 24. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? Unanimity accepted by 117 votes. Law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on a multiannual operational programme for the development of human potential to assist the community in pre-accession assistance instruments within the human potential development component in Croatia, P.Z. 245, point 27. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? The proposal was unanimously accepted with 117 votes. Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Marco Polo II programme. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? The proposal was unanimously accepted by 117 votes. Law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on mutual protection and exchange of classified data, P.Z. 247, point 29. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Do you mind? This proposal was accepted by 117 votes unanimously. Law establishing the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, P.Z. 249, point 30. Who's in favor of the urgency of the procedure? Thank you. Against? This proposal was adopted by a majority of 116 votes in favour and 1 against. Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Montenegro on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal, P.Z. No. 251, point 33. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? This proposal was accepted by the majority of votes with 116 votes in favour and 1 against. Ladies and gentlemen, the representatives, the written objections to the agenda I proposed with the call for a session, were not present, and this agenda was in accordance with Article 203(4) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. In accordance with Rule 203 of the Rules of Procedure, only those points which did not contain the draft agenda may now be submitted to the meeting. In the act referred to in point 36... We made a statement on the occasion of the emergency decision and it was included in the agenda. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Any of the representatives have objected to points 45 and 47 of the final draft agenda which did not contain the draft agenda that you received with the invitation to this session. These are the proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee to determine the facts regarding the purchase of 39 military trucks by MORH in December 2004, Proposer: 38 representatives of SDP club members, and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Relations, First Reading, P.Z. No. 250, Proposer Dragutin Lesar. Are there any objections to these proposals on agenda points? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda has been established. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure should now publish the established agenda. I suggest if you agree that I do not read it in full but allow me to announce that the agenda set out is as I suggested in the final draft agenda, while changing the urgency of the one we accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24894	The conditions for going to the next item of the agenda have been obtained Now, yes [[When, now, shall we go?]] We will, we will. Everyone's talking in their voice. [[No, we won't.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24895	I'd like to ask you to pause for 10 minutes on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24896	According to the Rules of Procedure, you're right about that. I'm declaring a recess by 1 9:45.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24897	We're moving on with the session. On behalf of the club that requested the SDP's break, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24898	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished few colleagues and fellow MPs. There is one principle agreement between Parliament President and club representatives on how this House will work. The deal says we'll be working from the morning of half past 10:00 a.m. as the session begins normally until 7:00 p.m. It is also to reach the standard so far when no new point has begun after 19,00 hours if there are no particularly justified reasons for this. It's 19.43, and there's no particular reason. We don't vote the budget with this law, we don't have a deadline. This legislative proposal was sent to the procedure on 6 November three months ago. He hasn't been discussed for three months, so it doesn't seem to matter that he's being discussed just tonight in the late evening. The session is scheduled for next week. There's nothing on the agenda or so much or so important that this law could not be discussed in the follow-up session tomorrow at 9.30. The SDP club therefore requires the same treatment. We are elected representatives here, representatives of the citizens. The same treatment as they have legal proposals, like they have suggestions coming from the government. In addition, the legal proposal on VAT falls within the anti-recession measures of the SDP club. It's a law that concerns all citizens. The public has the right to know what anti-recession measures could improve their standards. We still don't have the right as elected representatives to hide it from the public. We just don't have the right to do that. We're not chosen to hide anything. We've been chosen to act publicly. For all these reasons, Mr. Vice President, the SDP club is now asking for the agreement between the club representatives and the president of the parliament to be respected. We don't see any reason not to respect him. In addition, there are no representatives of a number of clubs, there are few representatives from the largest opposition party. Let me count one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve of all from the ruling party, only twelve. I am convinced that a much greater number of them are interested in participating in this debate, to hear our arguments. So are the club presidents. I haven't seen anyone since HSS. The HSS Club has the right to discuss this, has the right to hear our arguments, and I'm sure they'd like to discuss it, I'm sure of it. But there, it's late. People work at half past ten, so then they'll all be here for sure tomorrow, and therefore we demand that this be discussed tomorrow at 9.30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24899	Thank you for your presentation. We agreed to finish today with the seventh item of the agenda, and that's the plan for today, because tomorrow we're having a session, tomorrow we're going to agenda, tomorrow we're going to expand by another 10 very important points. So we have exactly the plan we're working on and we simply can't give up on that plan because otherwise we'll find ourselves in a situation where we won't finish the work of the Parliament. So, as you now say nicely this agreement we have fully respected the session is meant to be scheduled today for that part of the agenda, the session is public, transmitted on the Internet. No one's hiding anything. So we move forward with the work of today's session. Your Honor, I'm sorry, we're moving on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24900	Mr. Vice President, it's not a good decision. We have time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24901	Here we go to... If you're tired, get some rest, and watch it. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Look, please don't. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Don't obstruct the session, the work of the Parliament. You can, I'll hold out longer, I'll sit down here. Please! Don't. ... It doesn't apply discriminatoryly. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Please leave, Your Honor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24902	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24903	Analyze today's session and you'll come to the conclusion that you've obstructed all today and now you're obstructing. ... Do you think this is a democratic gain that you're doing? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Break 10 minutes. Thank you very much. Yes, we continue to work with the session and please do not obstruct the work of the Parliament. If you do not allow it to continue with points 6 and 7, since we are really in the grip because of what we have to implement, we have the conditions for point 8 and we continue with item 8 of the agenda and please do not obstruct the work of the Parliament as you have been obstructing it all day and now you want to interrupt the session. Thank you very much. Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24905	You have to announce what starts tomorrow?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24906	Please, let's go to point 8. ... But with what right do you obstruct work? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] All right, well, then sit there and be. Here, there will be a break until you move. Because look, you don't want to work, but you obstruct and you will. ... No, I won't discuss it anymore because it's an informal debate and I won't discuss it with you. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We won't discuss it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Sit down and then we'll continue the debate. ... I agree with you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's all right. ... Look, there's a Rules of Procedure and I'm working as chairman now, so I'm asking you to step away from the table, make it possible to work, and if you don't, I'm going to declare a break until you move away and create conditions. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Pause until further notice. I'm sorry there's been such a violent interruption of the session. It's a violent interruption of the session and it's not good, it's not according to the democratic gain we created in this House, it's not according to the Rules of Procedure that you've all voted for here and I'm sorry that it happened. In consultation with the President of the Parliament, we agreed to continue the session tomorrow at 10:30 with the voting point Thank you very much, good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24908	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Before I go to the vote, I will propose an addition to the 8th session agenda. First, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal of the Law, it is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 258. Second, the Proposal for a Law on Noise Protection with the Final Proposal Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 256. Third, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Agreement on Plant and Genetic Resources for Agricultural Food with the Final Proposal of the Law, also an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 257. Fourth, Report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2008. Fifth, Proposal for amendments to the Employment Intermediation Act and the Rights of Unemployment with the Final Proposal of the Law, also emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 253. Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Sixth, Proposed law on the prolongation of housing loans since 2009 with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 254. Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Seven, Proposal for a Law establishing a basis for calculating the salaries of government officials in 2009 with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. number 252. Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Eighth, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 255. Proposers of the SDP Representatives Club. Ninth, a motion to postpone the National Day of Persons with Disabilities. Proposer of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. 10th, Proposal for a decision on the payment of funds from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 to core capital, interest subsidy and share in the loans of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I stress that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal for the Law, P.Z. No. 258 points 1 and Proposal for a Law on Noise Protection with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No 256, paragraph 2 is in line with the European Union rules, and we do not vote in the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws. I note that the supplementation proposal is divided into benches. We are therefore going to vote on the urgency of the procedure on the other laws. Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24909	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Here's two suggestions. First, we vote by hand, because a whole series of MPs didn't bring the keys. Because the voting term has been moved. Secondly, we have an objection to points 5, 6, 7 and 8 regarding an emergency procedure. We believe that the laws under paragraphs 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the SDP Club should not go according to an emergency procedure, because it is a matter that is agreed in expert groups so that we can get time, get all the suggestions, that we can be more objective in our judgments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24910	Does any of the representatives have the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the International Treaty on Plant and Genetic Resources for Food in Agriculture point 3? There isn't. Who's for emergency procedures please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? The result? For 114 unanimously. The application of an emergency procedure has been passed for this law. Do any of the agents have an emergency procedure? There's a Mr. Andri Hebrang. Is there anyone else? Law amending the Employment and Rights Intermediation Act during unemployment. That's 253, point 5? The complaint was filed by Mr Andrija Hebrang on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Any other objections? If there isn't anyone who's using an emergency procedure to pass this law? Thank you. Against? This proposal was voted in favour of the emergency procedure of 40 MPs and 75 against. So it's not included in the emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the prolongation of housing loans in 2009, P.Z. Point 6 is replaced by the following: Mr. Andrija Hebrang has made an observation of the urgency. Any other suggestions? If not, who is to apply an emergency procedure for the adoption of this emergency procedure law? Thank you. Against? 40 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, against 75. So it's not included in the emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure on the Law establishing the basis for calculating the salaries of government officials. Any objections besides Mr. Hebrang? There isn't. Who is to apply an emergency procedure to the adoption of this law? Thank you. Against? 41 for emergency procedure, against 75. Therefore, the application of the emergency procedure has not been voted upon. Does any of the representatives other than Mr Hebrang have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009, P.Z. 255 points 8.? If not, who's in charge of the emergency procedure? Against? I find that 41 MPs voted for the urgency of the procedure, 75 against it. Therefore, the application of the emergency procedure has not been voted upon. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion of other proposed points in the session agenda? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the addition of the agenda has been established. Thank you. We move on to the agenda and have a need to give reasons and explanations in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Yesterday, we had several agendas on the agenda, and there were MPs, some MPs, obstructing the work of the Parliament. As I have announced several times, the Parliament's work is usually about 1900 hours but when it is necessary, it should be extended. As we did in two, three times. Please, please, I would like to emphasise that I have tried to maintain such a rhythm and that I have succeeded more or less. For the 8th session of over 40 agenda points, you have also adopted the final agenda and then the agenda that has been consolidated. Today we adopted a dozen new agenda points, and 11 points out of 50 were discussed within two weeks of the Parliament's work. I've scheduled a session for another week and it's obvious we're nowhere near discussing the points we've been planning for three weeks of work. You will agree that it is necessary to see and plan within the possibility and rhythm that is desirable in the Assembly but should also be monitored and intervened if there are any disturbances. I also announced that these three weeks that we had announced, or called upon, the Parliament that it would most likely be extended. If there's a debate in the Parliament, we can't finish this in two months. So we're going to have to not only extend for one week but maybe for another. In addition, according to the rhythm and dynamics of the debate at the Assembly, we may need to introduce a session of the Parliament on Tuesdays and even Mondays. If some clubs think that agenda points need to be discussed in front of television in no way can we challenge the right of other clubs and representatives to also demand that their points be assessed because they are highly important to debate in front of television cameras. If so, and I am a bit of a cartoonist but this is possible theoretically and practically, it can happen that many MPs are asking not to discuss their agenda points but only when the transfer takes place. The transfer takes several hours, so the Parliament should work as long as the assembly sessions are carried out. I am not contesting the importance of this agenda item that was working on yesterday's inappropriate replicas within the club to extend the debate on the agenda point that was under way and continued in front of the cameras this morning. If that's how we're gonna do it, I'm not saying it's anti-business. I'm just saying that in this way it has extended needlessly and the replica means challenging certain views and opinions in the debate within a club is not appropriate. Please, like I'm saying to you, I'm telling other clubs because that's what happens to them. We tried to amend the Rules of Procedure in that sense, we failed because there was opposition. So, we're actually late for the Parliament's work dynamics. You cannot dispute the request of any representative to discuss his agenda point which he considers important within this space when broadcasting television. I'm asking you to behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The only weapon the president has is the Rules of Procedure. We have no other option. We're not going to push, we're not going to know how and in what way we stand up because I'm arguing if the Parliament doesn't decide the different session of the Parliament is going on until the established agenda is exhausted, Article 201. Article 205 states: During the sitting, the President may exceptionally change the order due to, we know the reports or absence of a report from the Government, the Proposer, the Working Body and, at the end of the sitting, the Chair will, as a rule, publish on which points of the agenda will be discussed during the session of the current day. This is Article 205. Article 207 says: "No one can speak at a session before asking and receiving a word from the president.". Yesterday, there was talk, shouting and shouting, and some MPs were breaking in without getting a word from the chairman of the Jarnjak vice president. Article 213 says, I must warn you about this and for the record: "The session's order is provided by the chairman. The MP is told a warning if he speaks and has not received the approval of the chairman, his incursions or otherwise distracts the speaker" which was also, "by his behaviour of a deviation from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly.". If yesterday this behavior was in line with the general rules of conduct in the Assembly if we do not create a precedent so that others can do so, come before a pay phone and prevent debate in this House. If that's common behavior, then let's make a note of it in the Rules of Procedure. So far, it hasn't been, even though there have been cases like this before. And the seventh, in another way, disrupts the order of the session. So it can be said, and in another way, the order was disrupted at the session. Furthermore, Article 223: "The President is concerned that the debate on a particular item of the agenda takes place according to the planned programme and gives interpretations or clarifications in the process of passing laws and other regulations.". 224.: "The President concludes the debate when he finds that there are no more registered speakers and the chairman concludes the session as a rule when the set agenda of the session is exhausted.". No one has disputed the consolidated agenda, it was going along that agenda, and there is nothing written except that I announced it with the possibility of exceptions to work until 7:00 in the evening. I say all of this not to bring oil to the fire, not to potentiate any conflict, but to warn all MPs that we have a duty to stick to the Rules of Procedure that we adopted ourselves and to allow the presidents to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and not to interfere with the Parliament's work. I'm now moving on to the amendment bill. ... Mrs. Opacic on behalf of the club. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24912	Can I say something on behalf of the club? You have so far, Mr. President, here on two occasions, said that there has been a practice so far that it's usually up to 7 o'clock. After 7 hours, it would only continue to work until speakers for a particular topic were exhausted. Yesterday, at about half past eight, we exhausted the speakers for one law and the chairman said he was moving on to a new agenda. We stood up to it and said we didn't see any reason to move on to a new agenda now.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24913	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24914	Look, Mr. President. Just let me finish it. So what we've been looking for we've been looking for the same criteria for everyone. We don't see any reason why some criteria apply to government laws and other criteria apply to the SDP club. Yesterday morning, it was your urgency that all three laws, even though they don't have some big touch point, join in a united debate. You wouldn't think of such a thing for the government's laws. All we're asking is for the same treatment to be for the laws of the government and for the same treatment to be for the laws when proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club. That wasn't the case yesterday, and that's why we reacted. And this is not the first time that the laws that come from the ranks of the SDP do not have the same treatment as the laws of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, you said we obstructed the work of the Parliament last night. We just asked to be with our law, that our law has the same criteria and the same status as the government's laws. On the other hand, we were accused of obstructing Parliament's work through a day-long debate on citizens' problems. That's the assessment we got from Vice President Jarnjak, so talking about citizens' problems, talking about the laws in this assembly means obstructing Parliament's work. We at the SDP Club can't agree and we won't. On the other hand, Mr. Baby, just one remark. It's not our fault, for example. Today, out of the 10 points that are included in the agenda, five points has been proposed by the SDP club, only two laws have come from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and these two laws that really do not matter and do not. And yesterday we were told that we would complete the agenda because, therefore, there are some extremely important laws of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Once again of 10 points 5 is the point written by the SDP club. It's really not our fault that in the last two weeks, the SDP club produces more laws than the entire government produces.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24915	I understood, please, please, I did not claim that the replica inside the club was anti-business, I did not claim it but I said that it was inappropriate, that it was illogical and that it was used to repay with a point of the agenda so that it would be in the rhythm of the transfer of the Croatian Parliament. You're saying government laws aren't about what's proposed and yours are important, everyone's saying their proposals matter. Who's an arbiter to decide which laws matter, which are not laws that matter. If you think all your suggestions matter, others think they're not important, but they're important. You don't have a foothold in the Rules of Procedure that you interrupted the Parliament's session last night because the Parliament was supposed to go further in line with what I announced by 7:00, and when it was necessary and I explained that we now have 50 laws on the agenda and that we passed 11. We've been through two weeks of debate, and please, I've said this objectively no offense to anyone. So far, if you're going to be objective and Parliament's work has been appropriate. We remember the time when he ended up at midnight and after midnight, and every time, every session there were cases when, the MPs would come out and read all the names quickly so that he couldn't come back, etc. We all know that, and you can't tell me who's been through six parliamentary tours here, the sixth now, how anyone's been acting in the past. And don't make yourself a victim, suggest the law as much as you want, will be included in as you know in the agenda and in the order you see yesterday you were second because the law that proposed and announced the gentleman ended the debate at 10.5 hours. At 10.5 to 19 o'clock, you didn't first accept to connect those three points, which I appreciated, you're right, but don't, please, replicas, a few replicas to your neighbor sitting next to you. What's that? Let's not act and pretend like we don't know what we're talking about. I didn't say it was anti-business, but it's for the purpose of what I was talking about. I'm begging you. I announce that if it comes to these cases that it cannot be accessed by the speaker and that it cannot be accessed by the speaker and that it cannot be spoken by the chairman and that it is demonstrated in such a way. Please, I won't, I won't cause any further problems and conflicts here, but I'll also have the vice presidents conclude the session and continue when conditions are made. This will mean extending the work of the Parliament, it will mean Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Tuesday and Monday, it will mean that the Croatian Parliament will fulfil its task, will work within the framework of the law and the rules of procedure and we will work in accordance with that and some good tradition that we have established for this year and now there are these phenomena. I ask you that no one declares their laws important and important and that no one else insignificant has the right to do so. And as much as you're going to propose legal proposals, go at 10, 15 each day for as long as you like. All will be included in the agenda as we have done so far. It was, here it was debated about some laws when this side wasn't inside, they were passed, it's your right, you leave, etc., but here to create a crowd and that can't work Parliament, that's it, we won't let it. And accordingly, perhaps the time has come to change and supplement and amend the Rules of Procedure to ensure the normal work of the Parliament. And now please don't answer again. This is my explanation for which there isn't, my explanation for which there isn't, that's my explanation! You can get along or disagree, but you can't comment on it. Please, Proposer, please, and well, let's go now, here's who can predict when some point will come to the agenda. So who will make corrections to false allegations, who will predict how many replicas there will be. Well, my people don't have any insight into the possibility of predicting when we finish something. Now, here's what's gonna happen to 10 hands up, they're gonna talk about this, about that, and then we're lost, and now we're not gonna discuss this agenda point. Please, nice. What do you want, Mrs. Pusic?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24916	Then give me your word. Give me your word to explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24917	Are you looking on behalf of the club or as a representative?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24918	On behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24919	Here you go, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24920	I'm asking that, quite technically, you give us 10 minutes off because since voting was the first thing that wasn't the custom, we haven't done so yet. We did not think that they would continue to argue on the agenda, but that voting would then be the only thing that would be done today so that we could bring our preparations for the debate to the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24921	I'm announcing a 10-minute break, okay. Is that what you're looking for? Ten minutes off, we're looking for the president of the HDZ Club, we're all looking for a club president, so we're all gonna lose again. We're not going to discuss the sixth item of the agenda. You have a break of 10 minutes, and we will continue with the 6th point of the Amendment Law and additions of the Value Added Tax Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 186, Proposer of the SDP Representatives Club, as soon as you finish this address. Thank you very much. Ten minutes. Now Mrs. Pusic should get her word, but she's not here. On behalf of the HNS Club, does anyone want to take a word? ... I know, but... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There's a word from Mrs. Vesna Pusic on behalf of the HNS club. Here you go. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24923	Thank you, Mr. President. So the HNS Club was looking for a break because of the fact that we could continue our work and thank you for giving us that break. But I am taking this opportunity to warn all of us and to ask that, in the planning of the sessions, as far as possible, we hold some order and order so that as representatives we can prepare ourselves for certain points and know, at least indicatively, because that is the purpose of the agenda, when certain points will come to debate, because in this situation it is very difficult to predict and certainly has an impact on the quality of the debate and the possibility of debate in Parliament. And I also think it is important, especially since in this House we have just passed the Law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions, to refrain from clapping and cheerleading atmospheres and to stop what Charles Fourier would say, butterfly passions, because it degrades the integrity of this institution. So thank you for this stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24924	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Ms Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24925	Mr. President, I am sorry that this debate has opened today because I think this Parliament could have discussed some far more important issues for the citizens today, and this should have been something that should have been discussed in the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament. And that is our proposal, for the Presidency to deal with the way Parliament works, not as many Rules of Procedure as with the implementation of the Rules of Procedure itself and some of the standards that are being violated here from situation to situation, as is the case with the majority in Parliament. Parliament is the place to be spoken, where arguments are discussed, where laws are being passed. Therefore, this is the only place where this kind of debate is being held and therefore the debate should not be limited. We're all professionals here, and we're all getting paid for our jobs, and it's completely irrelevant whether the Parliament will work two weeks, three weeks, six weeks in a row. As long as there is a need to discuss issues in this House, laws, citizens' problems, parliamentary deputies need to work. In this House, the application of the Rules of Procedure, as is the case with the ruling majority, cannot be ignored by the club of 56 MPs. You can't ignore anywhere around 800,000 voters who voted for us. These people are asking us to talk in this House about their problems and we are doing it, and then when we do it, it is said that we are obstructing the work of the Parliament. This means that each and every one of us wants to open a topic that is important to the citizens of this Republic is interpreted as an obstruction of Parliament's work. We're a constructive opposition all the time. An opposition that has proposed more than 10 laws in the parliamentary procedure in the last two weeks alone. We are the opposition that started writing since 9 months last year the first measures to mitigate the decline of citizens' standards and to mitigate this recession that has arrived in Croatia. The fact that these laws have been waiting until now for them to be discussed, it's a matter of running the session itself. We are constructive, we propose solutions to citizens' problems and we are not violent. And we can't accept the assessment that was said here last night that we were violent here. No, I don't. We didn't organise any protests, we were just here to protest peacefully and say, so in our own house we protested peacefully and said that we couldn't accept the different treatment of laws that come from the order of the SDP and those laws that come from the government. And in the end, I can only say that the announcements of amendments to the Rules of Procedure in the context of last night's events can only make us think that these changes will go in the direction of abolishing therefore and reducing freedom of speech in this House, because it has obviously become a key problem to talk about things that the ruling majority does not want to hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24926	It's not about anything, it's about the respect and conduct of the Rules of Procedure, and who's going to propose some laws to propose them, so we're going to discuss them. And it's not just a 56-seat club, it's one of three MPs. It's the same important club, and that's why I don't think it's appropriate to build on this and that. If we're going to watch what club you think would have the greatest right if we went by that logic. All clubs are equal and have the right to talk about every question. That's one thing. Secondly, you prevented the transition to the eighth item of the agenda, which Vice President Jarnjak announced, and when he said that if you prevent the debate from happening on the sixth and seventh points, given that we are really in the grip, and we have to implement the plan, we have the conditions for item 8 and we continue with item 8 of the agenda and please do not obstruct the work of the Parliament as you have been obstructing it all day and now you want to interrupt the session. So then Mr. Cain came in, please I'm reading what Mr. Jarnjak said. So then Mr. Jarnjak said please let's go to point 8. You didn't let him. What does that mean? Who is it, so you've protested here peacefully so that no one can come for the pay phone and that the chairman can't say what he has to say. Please, nice. Let's not play around here and play about some things that we all know. No one can bluff anyone. We all know why you were raising replicas, correcting incorrect allegations to your own representatives, and I want the Croatian public to know that. Just like some others did. I'm not shutting anyone down. But you did it all the time yesterday to get this agenda point on TV. Please, nice! Everyone has the right to show themselves on TV, not just you. And it started at 10 and a half yesterday your agenda points and let's not blur things out. I will propose to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System if they do not take the initiative themselves to arrange the Rules of Procedure so that this Parliament can work without any interference or such miracles as was happening here. So please don't! We know what we're talking about, we can just pretend we don't know, and we know. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24927	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, here's a problem, and it's better to discuss it than to have it happen again. We heard a vision of one side. We have the right to hear the vision of the other side. So yesterday, when we saw that the three points on the agenda were going to take all day of the debate, I suggested to my colleague Opačić that we unite all three points, since they are literally consistent and they go side by side and side with each other. That was rejected. And I immediately announced, but then let's get ready for an all-night debate, because we have to finish those three points because of the length of the agenda as President Bebic has explained now and because of the deadlines that limit us. Therefore, it was announced that we would debate until the end and end all three points and there was no SDP's objection as far as this is concerned. We thought it was a gentlemen's agreement that eventually turned out to be a problem. He resulted in a physical obstruction of the continuation of the session, which means that the SDP colleagues literally surrounded this pay phone and that a representative of the Government could not come to explain point 8 which the chairman, Vice-President Jarnjak, proposed. It's a physical obstruction of work. And I congratulate Mr. Jarnjak for not going further by force, which was not applied by the Rules of Procedure, Article 216 of points one to four, and he had the right to react by force, call the guards and allow the session to continue. And I congratulate him for not doing it. I am proud that we have proven a high civilizational level and a high level of democratic debate on at least one side. Why do I think this whole set of things that happened isn't good? Because we all send together, once you, once we're blaming the press. You will see, and you have already seen on the web pages the echo of this event – obstruction in the Parliament, non-democratic methods. Once again, MPs are something that they are not – bad guys. Unfortunately, part of the media makes us the bad guys for probably reasons of circulation, maybe some other, sometimes political ones, and we're giving them a cause. It's better to agree that dirty laundry doesn't go out, because then it happens that we're really bad guys, and the vast majority of the representatives of all parties are consciously acting their duty and this kind of misunderstanding can't give a positive picture to the public. The result was yesterday on HRT when they spoke the most, so they said that on behalf of the HDZ I speak the most, and in the next sentence I'm one of the leaders, I don't know her name, they call me HDZ blabber. It's a picture of how positive work, in this case happens to apply to me, can be turned into negative. Let's not give them any more cause for it. Let's make a deal. In agreement we can solve 90% of all problems as we have so far, so please let us forget this and continue the normal work of the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24928	Thank you. The other one didn't answer? That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24929	I did, but I'm gonna keep my mouth shut because I'd fight with both HDZ and SDP. What can I say? Obstruction is a parliamentary struggle.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24930	Parliamentary struggle within the Rules of Procedure, not outside the Rules of Procedure. That's what I always stress. I don't have any weapons but the Rules of Procedure, and I'll stick to it, and then replicate to your colleague 70 times, but he's a Rules of Procedure. Please, nice. Good morning, everyone! Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. Mr. Lesar, come in. What do you need?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24932	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. I'll be very brief. On the first day of this session at the end of the current morning, Article 189 shall apply. You informed the Rules of Procedure that the government still, or the Prime Minister, did not answer my parliamentary question asked on November 19th last year. And you've set an additional eight-day deadline for the government or the Prime Minister to respond. Until this moment, I have not received the answer, so please, in accordance with article 189, but also paragraph 180, you will bow down and assure me, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, of what you specifically pointed out on Friday at one point...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24933	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24934	An explanation of how to conduct a session to get an answer to the parliamentary question since 19 November of last year. I repeat, the eight-day extension you gave the Prime Minister has passed, the answer is still missing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24935	I understand. She also didn't get Mrs. Maria Lugaric. The government, to put it this way, has been reminded of the need to give those answers, so I'm going to hurry it up again, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24936	I hope the Prime Minister doesn't ignore you when the MPs ignore us.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24937	If it's the same, then it's not necessary. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24938	Mr. President, thank you for mentioning that my case with answers is the same. But I would only beg, when you're already intervening with the government to actually deliver a question to us, to then intervene in a way that can provide us with answers within 30 days. Because they basically extend that deadline to the next current morning. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24939	Thank you. The government will be warned and written about what we said. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good morning, everyone. We're going back to work. I see Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar has come forward. Here you go, Mr. Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24941	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President. I'm sorry to bother you again. Yesterday I asked you for an intervention to get an answer to the parliamentary question that the prime minister owes me. There was no answer to the question asked on November 19th last year. The fact that the Prime Minister ignores me as an agent is a minor problem. He's ignoring you because you sent an ambulance in accordance with Article 189. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24942	Okay. Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24943	Mr. President, I'll look every morning until I get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24944	You won't get a word in, Mr. Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24945	I'll still ask for an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24946	No, you raise your hand you won't get the word, because you're harassing the entire Parliament. ... Please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You told me here yesterday I answered you that I would write a letter to the government and I wrote a letter to the government. So, don't come here, somebody else can get up, and now we're gonna lose half an hour about what someone didn't get. I've done my duty. I can't go any further. Please don't abuse yourself every day.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24947	Mr. President, if the ISKUP violates the Rules of Procedure and abuse. ... [[(Speakers speaking out loud) You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24948	Please, I did what I promised.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24949	So I've got to start an impelation on the work of the Prime Minister in order to get an answer. Is that what I have to do?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24950	So do what you want, but let the Parliament do what you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24951	All right, then I'll do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24952	Do what you think is right, but let the Parliament do it. We can't if everyone like that, every morning he gets up, this isn't solved, it's not solved, then they wouldn't do anything to me, they're writing down what's not solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24953	Excuse me, am I in violation of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24954	Please don't take me.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24955	Mr. President, am I in violation of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24956	You can't talk anymore, Mr. Lesar. You've mentioned it four times before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24957	Well, I'll do it 14 more times.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24958	Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I'm going to propose an addition to the agenda of the 8th session with 14 points that you've got on the bench transparently, so please, since these laws have several sentences that I'm not reading the entire text of the proposed laws, but the code of the law by number, if that's okay with you. So first I'm going to propose P.Z.E. The second reading of the law, I have to read this, the final draft law on vocational education. The second is reading and P.Z.E. Second, P.Z. No. 259, so you have the text. Three, P.Z. No. 260, so each other's procedure is an emergency. An emergency procedure is proposed for 259 and 260. Also, emergency procedure for P.Z. No. 261, also emergency procedure for P.Z. No. 262, also emergency procedure P.Z.E. No. 263, emergency procedure for P.Z. No. 264, for emergency procedure P.Z.E. No. 265, also emergency procedure for P.Z. No. 267, emergency procedure for P.Z.E. No. 268 and emergency procedure for P.Z. No. 269. Then, the proposal for a law establishing a paying agency for agriculture, fisheries and rural development, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 260. Emergency procedure P.Z. No. 271. And a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations Peace Mission in the Central African Republic of Chad. That would be 14 points. I would like to stress that the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Industrial Design Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, P.Z. No. 263 point 6, P.Z.E. 264 point 7, P.Z.E. No. 265 point 8, P.Z. No. 267 points 9, and P.Z.E. No. 268 points 10, and P.Z. No. Point 11 of point 269 is aligned with the European Union rules, and we do not vote in the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws. We are going to vote on the urgency of the procedure on the other laws. Does any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Government Financing, etc., P.Z. No. 259? There isn't. Is there anyone, who's in charge of the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law by emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 259. Please engage and first determine the quorum. 112. 95, so many keys aren't on yet. But here, I suggest we vote by raising our hands on urgency. So, who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of P.Z. No. 259th, point 2. Please raise your hand. Thank you. Do you mind? In agreement with 112 votes, the urgency of the procedure was accepted. Any of the representatives have objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of a law marked P.Z. No. Point 3.260. Who's in? Any objections first? If there's no one in favor? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Let's see. 113 votes unanimously. Any of the representatives have objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of a law marked P.Z. No. 261st point 4? Anyone have any objections to the urgency? There isn't. I'm putting it to the vote. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure, please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? It's a unanimous 113th vote. Any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Marked P.Z. No. 262. point 5? Anyone have any objections? There isn't. I'm putting this motion to the vote to be adopted by emergency procedure. Who would please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? A unanimous 113 vote accepted. Any of the representatives have any objection to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of a law marked P.Z. No. 270th, paragraph 12? There isn't. Who is for this emergency procedure, please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Adopted unanimously with 113 votes. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the urgency of the emergency, to the urgency of the procedure in the adoption of the law marked P.Z. No. 271st point 13? There isn't. I'm putting it to the vote. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Accepted urgency, unanimous with 113 votes. Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion of other proposed items of the 8th session agenda? These are the final draft laws on vocational education, second reading, P.Z. No. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013. And a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia point 14 in Chad and the Central African Republic, point 14. If there are no objections, ladies and gentlemen, the addition of the agenda has been established. I'd like Vice President Shakespeare to continue holding a session on the vote on the points of the agenda. Here you go. Otherwise, I am informing MPs and MPs, that the continuation of this 8th session because we have over 40 agenda points again, will continue on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday with a agenda item of the 2008 State Audit Office's work. Report on audits carried out, Report 2007 and attachments 1, 2, 3, 4 and specific section. So on Tuesday, at 9.30 p.m., we continue with this agenda. Now, I'm asking Mr. Shakespeare to continue the session. Thank you very much, and have a nice holiday. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, please quorum let's see. We're going to vote. 110 MPs are present. We can go to the vote. ... We're looking for electronics. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Do we want electronics? All right, electronic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24960	Mr. President, we don't all have the keys.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24961	Okay. Electronicly. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, pursuant to Article 204(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of this session - Proposal for a conclusion in connection with the Border Agreement with the Republic of Slovenia, Proposers: Representative Clubs and Mr Independent Representative Lesar. When the proposal for a conclusion is read, the clubs that supported this will be listed. Any objections to including this point in the agenda? If there is no point in the agenda, we vote by raising our hands. Who's to put this point in the agenda? Thank you very much. Do you mind? There isn't. Unanimity accepted by 115 votes in favour, nothing against. We're going right to this point. I ask the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament, Maria Zubovic, to read the proposal for conclusions that are in line with the clubs of MPs and, as I told the independent representative Lesar. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we begin by asking questions to the Government of the Republic of Croatia or to a single member of the Government, in accordance with Rule 180 to 184 of the Rules of Procedure. The current morning is held at the beginning of each session before the 1st item of the agenda. The first in line for asking questions is Mr. Representative Shemso Tankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24963	Thank you very much. Mr. President. My question is to the Prime Minister, Dr. Eve Sanader. Before... We have marked a year of work by this government, which the National Minority Representatives Club also supports. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the occasion of an agreement between the Minority Club and the Government, among other things, there was also a greater involvement of members of national minorities in all the authorities' resolutions. Of course, let me not be resented especially with this global question of where the members of the Bosniak minority are at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24964	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24965	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, for this question. Not only because of our agreement of the coalition and the government's programme, but also because we are firmly committed to a different policy and a different approach than it was until then, we in our first coalition government launched this process that is unconstitutional. Every Croatian citizen must feel at home in Croatia. And we don't care either, and it has to be a principle for the state administration, but for everyone else and the private sector and for everyone else who's who of the nationality. In this respect, the State Secretary of State of the Central State Administration has the task and he has done so in 2008 how many members of national minorities must be represented, that is to say, at work and in state services as well as at lower levels in units of local and regional self-government. And that program is going on as well as I know it. I also requested a report for the end of 2008 so when I get that report, I will give it to you, and we will see very precisely how many members of the national minorities are employed at the national level and at local levels. Both in executive and administrative bodies. But that process goes on and on and on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24966	Thank you. Mr. Representative Shemso Tankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24967	I really thank you, and I would also ask that, and you have announced that I should receive this answer in writing. But I'd also like to take advantage of the occasion just to remind you that from the three ministries I haven't received written answers and it's been over a month, please remind them of the obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24968	Thank you. Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24969	Thank you. The question is for Minister Shimonovic. Mr. Minister, the Maestro affair is causing a great deal of attention to the Croatian public, when carrying out evidence in the Maestro process, an intriguing video showing that the defendant Matanovic says that corruption privatisations sought by millions of euros of bribes will be achieved with the alleged help of people from the very environment at the top of the government. Otherwise, Matanovic, who was removed in 2000 because of privatisation affairs, Prime Minister Sanader and HDZ returned to the Privatisation Fund. Prime Minister Sanader commented on the video by saying it was about lawyering tricks. But Mr. Ministers did not secretly record Matanovic when he stated what he had said, but rather the law enforcement authorities. So on behalf of the Croatian public, I ask you, have the police taken at least some of the investigative actions to shed light on the potential role of the people in the environment of the top of the government in this case, or are you pretending that you have not seen or heard anything?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24970	Here you are, Mr. Minister Ivan Shimonović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24971	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On the occasion of the press report, I asked the state's attorney, Bajic, to brief me on the action and what I'm about to say now is a quote from the response I received from the state's attorney. So, Mr. Bajic informs that the material of the file in Maestro does not result in a government president being any other person from the government being involved in any way in the illegality of the conduct of the responsible persons of the Privatisation Fund in this case. As far as facts are concerned, in the first talks Joško Kuzmanic, who trusted in this case with the rest of the documentation, gave an insight into the letter of intent written on behalf of Russian investors by the Croatian Privatisation Fund, which stated that they intend to sell to them the land of brick NIN as an expert on archaeological issues to Mirjan Sanader as an adviser to the architectural issues of Jerko Rogin. However, Joško Kuzmanic immediately explained that he had not discussed their possible engagement with the appointed ones at all, and particularly did not agree to participate as consultants in the process. This was confirmed by his statement in the main debate, and he set out how he put it in a letter of intent to strengthen the negotiating position. This testimony of the trustee was confirmed at the main hearing and by witnesses... which was, in particular, a direct representative of Russian investors and, therefore, the State's Attorney General concluded that there are no grounds for treating any other person. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The answer to this question will be given in any case and in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24972	Thank you. Mr. Marin Jurjevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24973	Thank you for this in the end, because I was just about to ask you to try and give us a written answer. If I heard you correctly, at first you said something about a reaction to articles or inscriptions. It's not about that, my question is about what we could all hear on TV. And I'm interested in your written reply to the interpretation of the statement, therefore, Matanovica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24974	Thank you. Now he will ask the question of Mrs. Jerkovic's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24975	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Minister Kosor. On New Year's Eve, you cheered up the parents of babies, not all babies, just some, those who were lucky to be born between midnight and one o'clock in the morning. You gave them money, I think it was about seven thousand kuna, money from the state budget. So it is about money that must be used by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And they didn't, not even the babies, because those who weren't born in that happy hour, unfortunately, didn't get anything from you. All we can do is find out who's to blame for not being born at the right time. But the lawyer for the children, Mrs. Mila Jelavic, immediately called you for child discrimination and was absolutely right. Namely, all children are equal and should enjoy equal rights regardless of the hour of their birth. There you go, Madam Minister Kosor. My question is, is it true, is it possible that after this outrageous move, you also called the lawyer Jelavic on the phone, who is otherwise to remind you of the authority of this same Croatian Parliament and pressured her to withdraw her statement? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24976	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, come in. . /.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24977	Thank you very much, Madam Representative. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Thank you for this question. If I had ordered it, I couldn't have ordered it better. That is why I thank you from the bottom of my heart, in my name and in the name of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, for allowing me to say a few words about what our government has done in population policy and how your government has destroyed the entire population policy in the Republic of Croatia. So, unlike you who reduced your rights to mothers and reduced the rights of children and who didn't think to visit any child, and even on New Year's Eve there wasn't, Madam MPs, on New Year's Eve, but was on the very first day of January 2009 when I visited, of course, how I do traditionally as the minister of the family and vice president in charge of the human rights of mothers who gave birth that night at a maternity home in Petrovo to announce, among other things, new measures, so the new Law on Parental and Birth Support that came into effect this year, the new law that brings new rights for mothers, for families and children in the Republic of Croatia, which we strive to repair from year to year everything that the government under the leadership of the SDP destroyed. She collapsed, of course, some things that absolutely can't be fixed. For example, by abolishing a three-year maternity leave when 60,000 women had to go back to work overnight literally, they didn't have to leave their children behind without saying that you reduced the birth benefits to all mothers and it's amazing that you didn't ask yourself what was right and what was unfair. In this way, of course, you have reversed the whole business in the Republic of Croatia. You gave me a chance to say that we introduced or increased the allowance for the children, but that we introduced so-called. The most promising supplement for each third and fourth children and that is part of the document adopted and that is what is most important, the Croatian Parliament therefore all MPs in this House. One of the measures provided for in this document, which is a document that actually includes all that we are going to do, is the promotion of the most innovative policy. And this act for children born in the first hour is part of it, so please take the document and read it, to which many others in Croatia are called. I don't know how you didn't notice that many mayors, mayors, visited the births on New Year's or New Year's Eve, that they were donated to them by goldsmiths, equipment, etc., so on your word, they further discriminated against other children or other mothers. So it's completely incorrect. As for Mrs. Jelavic, Mrs. Jelavic did not call me and she has no right to do so. She said what she said... He has no right to... [[Applause.]] No, you're wrong, of course, interpreting the powers of the Attorney's Office, not having the right or the right to do so. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] She just said that... She just said... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mrs. Opacic, you have no right to shout. She only said it would be good for all children in the Republic of Croatia to get as much as possible, and that is exactly what this government does. So from day to day children and mothers and families get more and more. So much for the intelligence policy, so much for this government's efforts and for what the government has done under the leadership of the SDP. Thank you very much again for asking. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24978	Please. Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24979	I don't understand you, ma'am, because you're talking about something that I absolutely didn't ask you. And please just don't give me a written answer to this, because once again I would have to read all of what you just said, and that really doesn't make any sense. No one has explained it to you yet, and I hope after this current hour, they will, that you have spent absolutely all your time, blaming the coalition government of the late Ivica Racan for your incompetent policy. It's been a long time, and I think you've spent all your credits absolutely a long time ago. And your beautiful population policy is more than just demographic data that we can find anywhere and anywhere. But to get back to the scale of things, your methods are absolute inadmissible, you cannot say that the authority of the Croatian Parliament cannot address you in the way that it has spoken. The pressures on people in the state service, the threats of layoffs, the wharfing of workers, and the revenge of unsanitary people have indeed become your trademark. And I must say, this is what I'm going to end up with, the Honorable President... Mr. President, for five seconds, I have to tell you that I didn't expect a different answer from you... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24980	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please hold to the time of asking questions and expressing later opinions on this, pleasures, dissatisfactions etc. I, as you can see, have allowed quite a bit of Mrs. Jerkovic, but in advance I do not intend to allow anyone else to overstep the time around the answer. Please stick to it and then we'll finish asking a question within the expected time to finish by the break. Please. He's going to ask Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24981	Thank you very much. I have a question for Mr. Darko Milinovic, Minister of Health and Social Care. Dear Mr. Minister, the question I'm going to ask you is actually going to pass it on to you because I'm asked to ask you from a family doctor who's still not sufficiently addressed to regulations, so there's a lot of misunderstanding and wandering, so I'm telling you all about it and I'm asking you to answer it. He says, in view of the increasingly frequent contradictory statements of various state bodies and officials over the burning problem of billing in the pursuit of health care, to answer whether some legal or sublegal act has established the obligation of a doctor of family medicine as a free profession, a free interest in the collection of these funds by insurance companies personally. Since the tax regulations provide for free occupations, means that family medicine doctors also fall under, operate on the principle of income tax, not income tax, as well as outside the value added tax system, and that these funds constitute income from the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance according to the principle of profit and internal VAT system. Does this mean that it is a tax or legal violation of the payment of funds made up of the income of a third party in the tax system of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24982	Thank you. Mr. Secretary Darko Milinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24983	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. You are really right when you realized that a series of contradictory information has been collapsing these months, two days or more, since this High House of the Croatian Parliament adopted reform laws regarding health care. I'll say it in the beginning. No one has the right to rise above the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, above the law and disobey the law. These days there have been frequent talks on anex contracts, on contract annexes, on the financial conditions of primary health care business, we can, we need and we need to talk. But there's no respect for the law on this matter. I have called on my colleagues from primary health care, and also to inform this House of Highs that the reform is in full swing, that of 70,000 employees 69500 respect the law. So 99.5% and there's a colleague in primary health care who I understand because of misinformation that some associations are sent to the public don't respect the law in part. I think the situation is calming, too, but I also asked for the opinion of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Council of the Republic of Croatia and the Office for the Legislatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, where it is very decadently said that in the provision of Article 23(2). The Mandatory Health Insurance Act establishes that the insured person is obliged to pay the amount of his participation in health care costs personally with the selected primary healthcare doctor. So, the doctor of family medicine, gynecologists or dentists, exactly when using certain health care. I said I'd do anything to avoid any sanctions against colleagues who don't respect the law. But they must understand that no one in Croatia has the right to obey the law. No one is above the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, and ultimately this House adopted those laws, and partly supported by the parties who are here in opposition. So the law must be respected, and the annex contracts that are the financial terms of primary healthcare are the thing that we can talk about 20 hours a day if we need to talk. And these annex contracts are supported by a Croatian medical chamber where they are representatives of primary health care. They are supported by the HUP where they are representatives of primary health care. So hopefully in the next ten days, they'll realize that 120 is more than 100. Today, one problem is the implementation of the reform and the belief that 120 is more than 100. But the situation is calming down slowly and I hope that by the end of the month they will sign these contract annexes so that they can access the formal-legal payment of larger chieftains in primary health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24984	Thank you. Mr. Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24985	Thank you very much, Minister. I believe that you have now been listened to by the doctors of family medicine and have heard your answer and that in principle this is not about any tax or other legal offense and that the Croatian Health Insurance Office is not in the VAT as some think it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24986	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24987	I thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. What I'm about to say is for the Minister of the Navy. Mr. Minister, my story is a reluctance, but unfortunately, life is also very fresh in some segments. It is that teachers of Serbian nationality in Knin cannot be employed in primary schools. Either they're told there's no contests and there's no need, so tomorrow or the day after tomorrow someone comes all the way from another town and he needs to be paid for it, or I don't want to get into it. Either they get it, or they need it, so there's no contest because they're waiting for someone's daughter to graduate. Or someone comes by to work, so the reception procedure is done afterwards. Given the frequency of these events and the ease of doing so, this suggests that there are some signals and cover that this can be done. Now, I'll give up Mr. Minister on the question. But instead of asking, I'm going to give you the freshest example of something that's important. Students of high school, the group wanted to beat up students of the Serbian nationality of primary school, I guess, inspired by the latest events. It's all unfortunately seem very connected to me and the common denominator is there are people who think they can, maybe even think they should work. I said, I'm not asking a question. The only thing I'd love to do is ask you not to shake your hand on what I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24988	Thank you. Mr. Secretary Dragan Primorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24989	Thank you very much, no matter what you say, you don't need an answer. I'll just be brief. In Croatia where we live today, in which I am the minister, this form of behavior is absolutely unacceptable and it does not exist from my knowledge. I'll tell you what the new law predicted. The new law does not even allow the principal to make any decision on employment on the basis of a tender without the prior consent of the school board. So it's another elimination of the possibility that someone can do it. You know that in the system of science and education, we have employed almost 9,000 people through these reforms, which is the biggest employment in general because of the introduction of the Croatian National Education Standard, the obligation of secondary school. You know, for example, in the case of our high school in Zagreb, Serbian Orthodox general high school where there are people who are employed by Bosniaks, both Serbs and Croats. There's never been any comments. But if there's one thing you've said with a name and a name, I'm asking you nicely to give me that sign and the educational inspection is already on the ground tomorrow, and maybe the day after tomorrow, the resolved director who's doing it. But I'm asking nicely for concrete evidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24990	Thank you. Mr. Ratko Gaitica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24991	Mr. Minister, sensitivity can be upside down. Everyone doesn't have to have the same sensitivity, we're different anyway, and our goals can be different, even in this drastic. But the danger is that illegality is often justified by procedural maneuvers because there is no control.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24992	Thank you. I would like to inform my representatives that a session of the European Integration Committee is being postponed today at 14 o'clock, Vice President Dubravka Shuica. The question will be asked by Mr. Representative Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24993	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Polancec. The dispute between Ukraine and Russia has shown the weakness of the energy system of Europe and has also affected the weakness, the weakness of Croatia's energy system. What has proved in this crisis as a good side is that the investments made over the past few years have shown that we now have a good connection of the system, and the remote management system in which much has been invested has enabled every point in Croatia that has been gasified to have the same pressure, so the same conditions as in the centre of Zagreb. It was definitely a pleasant novelty for all those who dealt with it. It was also a well - organized system of excavation. In fact, we have never had such an organized system in the past few decades where it was known exactly who was coming out and the system was valid for all of Croatia, so that the entities belonging to the same category were under the same conditions and there was no discrimination. The warehouse was filled to the top, so it was loaded like no year before. Despite all the good news, however, gas problems could not be avoided in view of this ongoing dispute. However, since it is important that similar things do not happen in the future, I ask what does the Government specifically intend to do in the future to avoid such situations completely?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24994	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Damir Polancec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24995	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. MP, I thank you for your question. I'll start with the following words and the following information, or numbers. The consumption of gas in the Republic of Croatia for this year will be at a level, for the past year, at about 3.3 billion cubic metres. About 60% of all gas needs, Croatia smells its own production, and 40% of its needs must be filled with imports. It's one of the characteristics of our gas system, or gas market. Another great feature that should be mentioned is the fact that we have huge differences in seasonal consumption. For example, spending in winter months is up to 4 times higher than spending in summer months, and when we talk about so-called. Protected customers, therefore to tariff customers, primarily households, hospitals, schools, kindergartens, then the difference in consumption is even 1:10 and 10 times higher in winter months compared to summer months. Croatia's 40% gas demand imports and unfortunately, until recently, we had only one supply direction and this was the supply route through the Rogatec, which has actually connected the gas transport system of the Republic of Croatia to the transit pipelines that bring gas, primarily from the Russian Federation, that part of the world. One of the most important segments of the new energy strategy that we are preparing is, of course, the one relating to the gas business, and there we have made very clear what we want to do, what we want to build in the foreseeable period. First of all, the energy strategy, the implementation of the energy strategy must lead us to the energy independence of the Republic of Croatia, and this energy independence will be ensured if we build new supply routes. That is why we are signing soon, or the governments of the two countries of Hungary and the Republic of Croatia will confirm an agreement between the transport system operator to connect the transport gas pipeline systems of Hungary and Croatia to the Lower Miholjc, and this job should be completed by the end of 2010. Another very important thing, the transport pipeline from Bosilev to Split, we redesigned it, and we increased its capacity with the goal of continuing to build it further towards Dubrovnik, but after that, to connect with the so-called. The Adriatic-Ionian route, which brings Azerbaijani gas and gas from the Caspian basin to Albania, continues with the sub-sea pipeline system to southern Italy. That would be another supply route. The third very important thing and strategic decision we made during 2008 is to select the best location for the construction of LNG terminals. It was this crisis that could show us the importance of LNG terminals, not only for Croatia, but also for all countries that are gravitating, so they have the possibility of supplying gas tomorrow, ingested with oil gas from that, so LNG terminals. In addition, I must say that the special importance of strategic importance is the underground storage of gas. That's why we're finishing negotiations, or rather we're finishing negotiations, so with MOL and INA and Plinacro will buy the underground gas storage facility from INA, it will become its 100% owner and underground gas storage operator and, of course, create a prerequisite for Plinacro to be an investor in a new underground gas storage facility, first of all around 2, also the strategic importance and underground storage of gas Benicans that have commercial significance. We will also buy, or separate part of the trading company from the INA, by obtaining gas from Gazprom suppliers, but this company will also buy gas from the INA...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24996	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24997	...and will be the supplier of the Croatian market. So all of this puts us in a position to ensure our energy independence, to be masters of our own destiny in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24998	Thank you. Mr. Representative Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u24999	I thank you for your answer. Of course, the measures offered should be addressed, and I especially warn that the gasification of the remaining ungasified part of Croatia is under way, so that it would be very important to create these conditions, because it will practically increase our consumption, i.e. double.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25000	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25001	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished members of the Croatian government, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government. I would like to ask a question for the Minister of Regional Development and Forestry, Mr Peter Cobankovic, concerning the wood industry. In the middle of last year, the first to point out the coming economic crisis was just people from the wood processing sector. He even got the impression that he didn't fully trust us, but soon after a few months, it turned out that we were right. The wood processing sector is one of the few that creates a surplus in the trade. It is also very important to change the perception in Croatia in which the final product is increasingly exported and less and less exports of troops. In 2004, exports were about $470 billion and in 2007 billion and 40 dollars. So I'd like to ask a question. What has been done so far to help the wood industry? And I know that you helped, your ministry with significant financial resources. And to tell us how much this helped right now in this difficult situation for the wood industry and what we got if we knew that the wood processors were at world fairs in Germany in Cologne, Hanover, and what happened and what would happen in the next period. What does that mean for the wood industry? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25002	Thank you. Mr. Minister Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25003	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Honorable MPs and MPs. Of course, the wood industry as an export-oriented branch, a branch that around 70% of its total production is placed on the foreign market and a branch that I would say in one period of office or one four-year period, doubled the value of its exports as you said from 464 million from 2003 in 2008 ended up somewhere on a billion dollars in exports. What's more important to emphasize? In 2003, the deficit amounted to 15 million in trade and the surplus in 2008 will amount to nearly 100 million kuna. Or the export coverage is over 110%. This all indicates that this branch is able to produce, that it has a certain level of competitiveness and that it has a quality of product that can be placed on demanding foreign markets. For these reasons, we have long been determined that this is one of the strategic branches of the economy and, accordingly, we have brought a strategy for the development of the wood industry, according to the strategy, an operational programme has been adopted which provides both grants and has started to be applied since 2007 and thus in 2007 and 2008 a total of 322 development projects from the wood industry totalling 94 million kuna. For 2009, the budget envisions 48 million and is expected to launch tenders soon. But of course, it's for a normal time. During this crisis as well as global crises and in line with those facing export, there was a reduction in orders, there was a halt in orders and, of course, the wood industry was in a rather difficult situation. For these reasons we took certain measures together with the Croatian forests, the measures were applied in part to 2008 where for the amount of troops that were for the final production of Croatia's forests we provided for a full year of rebate of 5% and since 2009 we have gone to a reduction in the price of troops that ranged from 5% to 20%. Of course, we will continue to monitor the situation and withdraw certain measures. But as for the performance at the fairs, I would like to highlight a very successful performance and presentation of the possibility of wood industry at the fairs you mentioned in Hanover, Cologne and Munich. I would like to stress mainly in the production of parquets and wooden bases that Croatian producers belong to the very top of world production, that they are taking a respectable place and that so was our fair space from somewhere 600 square meters where the Ministry and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce co-financed the exit of wood processors to these fairs. The result of such an act is also a high customer interest, a high interest in large sellers dealing with either parquet, or furniture, and I expect it to produce results and to open up some new markets such as Turkish, Russian. And accordingly, we will continue with such a practice of going out to fairs where here we will jointly co-finance this date and presentation because it is necessary to open new markets.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25004	Thank you. Mr. Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25005	I thank Mr. Secretary. However, given the difficult situation, regardless of all this information that we have received from the fairs, we certainly think that we must continue negotiations with our respective ministry because we must find solutions how and how we help the wood industry that today has 90% raw materials, domestic raw materials without talking about more than 23 thousand employees. We certainly need to do everything to save the wood industry because that must be our common goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25006	Thank you. Madam Representative Jeljana Kalash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25007	Thank you. Mr. President, Croatian Prime Minister, members of the government. Today, I would like to ask the honourable vice president, Mrs. Djurdji Adlesic. For many years, Croatia has been talking about labour abuse and, of course, insufficient legislation. We are witnessing an increasing number of illnesses in this matter and even labour disputes in our courts, and it has even been found that the victims of abuse are more prone to early retirement. I am interested today, so if you can address this issue and tell us what the Croatian Government is doing to prevent and combat abuse in the workplace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25008	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25009	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I thank you very much for asking because you have spoken about a subject which unfortunately is not spoken much in Croatia and this problem exists. Of course, it exists in the countries of the European Union as well. There is information that says that 9% of employees in European Union countries are exposed daily to mobbing, which is about 13 million people per day. In Croatia, general practitioners, psychologists, psychiatrists warn about this issue, and I am glad that you opened the issue in the Assembly, because you have provided accurate data, 50% of those who address the doctor because of this problem complain about lower working efficiency, loss of concentration and 25% immediately go to sick leave, which, of course, is very expensive for the work process. We have established a working group where representatives and employers and trade unions and governments are aware of this problem, but not the government's mobing association that is very systematically dealing with this issue. And we're preparing an amendment to the law that will simplify the process, facilitate the position of the victim, I believe that we will be able to prepare the law in a few months because so far this procedure has been very hard to prove. Many have given up proving their actions, precisely aware of the shortcomings that exist in the existing law, and their lawyers have often advised them to do so. So I expect this spring to prepare a law to protect the victims. I have to say that they're mostly women over 50 who are hard-working labour, then there's no other way than to give up. I believe we've found the right solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25010	Madam Representative Jeljana Kalash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25011	Thank you for your answer. And I thank you for actually supporting the working group of the government that was actually founded on this issue, because, as you yourself said in your answer, this is today a very current social problem, whether we speak of it or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25012	Thank you. He will still ask Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25013	I'm asking Vice President Kosor. Local elections are approaching, HDZ pre-election activities are in full swing. The first thing to do is to raise the money. The former parliamentary representative was obviously in charge of this, and now the HDZ chief in Petrinja Zeljko Nenadic and four other HDZ leaders. But they didn't go exactly as planned, so the state's attorney's office filed charges against them. They stole 121 thousand and 105 kuna. But there's no ordinary membership left behind, and they're campaigning on the ground. So, let's say, the carlovic youth of HDZ, after breaking down cafes and singing Ustasha songs, began to raise money on falsified social security certificates. Then... Hodak and HDZ's head of the municipality... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He's drugging his friends with a ruse. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then a member of Zvonko Shalom, otherwise a councilman in Lošinj, beat you up by the hunter who caught him in the poaching, imagine. Then Drazen Perakovic, HDZ chief... That car crashed into an electric pole and left the whole place out of power. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, your member, representative Mario Zubović, firstly illegally parked and then physically attacked an employee of the Zagreb parking lot, who came to do his job and remove an improperly parked vehicle. Mrs. Kosor, can you tell us what further activities you are planning in the campaign and in what cities? So the citizens could get away in time?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25014	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Assembly is neither a state's attorney nor a court. Let's refrain from both charges and convictions. But from this question, we have heard several verdicts and claims that are not justified, at least as far as the judiciary is concerned, because it has not made its decisions. So I ask you to be moderate, measured when asking questions, and not to put yourself in the role of prosecutors and judges. And now I ask Mrs. Jadranka Kosor to respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25015	Thank you very much, Mr. President, so here's the question from Mr. Representative, who certainly asked nothing about the work of the government, or me as a member of the government, but I'm glad you're asking this question, because in fact, most of the people you mentioned, of course, you've condemned, hanged and done everything you've done in some former times, and I hope that this spirit of former communist times will come out, finally come out of the party that you belong to. I am personally pleased that you are engaged in the Croatian Democratic Community, I am pleased for one single reason, whatever you do more and longer you will be less or in no way engaged in the programme of your party and the activities of your party, and you will, of course, be in opposition for longer. Mr. Representative, that's certainly a fact. Fortunately for who will win the local elections, who will be mayors, mayors and mayors will not decide the SDP, the Social Democratic Party in Croatia, but will be decided by voters, Mr. MP, therefore, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And about who would be in charge of anything, any body was decided in communism. Those times have passed and I'm sure they never, but they'll never return to Croatia. And as for what member of the party is doing, we could do that, Mr. Representative, long and wide. So we could mention how, for example, in some branches of your party, strippers are brought to party, birthday, etc., we could remember some of your members who run drunk in front of the police, offer money, etc. We could think of some people who took pictures with counters on their heads, etc., but we're not going to talk about it right now. But I'm going to conclude, Mr. Stazic, you're just still dealing with us, analyze us, maybe learn something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25016	Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25017	First. The current morning is the moment when MPs ask questions to members of the government rather than to the president of the parliament. Therefore, President-in-Office of the Parliament, your intervention between my question and Mrs. Kosor's answer was not only unnecessary, but also business.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25018	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25019	Second. Mrs. Kosor, this isn't about any communist methods, I didn't teach them at the party school in Kumrovec, but as far as I know, you attended. Third, we can't, you say we look up to you, to HDZ, so we can learn something. We don't want to say anything about what I've said, but we don't want to learn anything at all. This is about robbery, fraud, naked violence. If you think these are the methods you're going to get local elections, I personally think you're wrong, but to you at will, you continue with these methods.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25020	Mr. Representative, since you're my... to note that you have not referred a question to me, it is my duty as chairman of this session that the current clock also takes place in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] The Rules of Procedure do not provide that MPs take the position of a state attorney and judge as you have done in your matter and that is why I intervened. Mr. Representative Anto Djapic has the following question.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25021	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Croatian Government, I would like to inform you that I will leave this assembly session after 17 years of the bench of the Croatian Parliament, so this is an opportunity to thank everyone for good cooperation and I want a lot of success and for the representatives of the Croatian Government to work for the rest of the term on the welfare of the Croatian state, Croatian people. And for the end, I've been thinking between the two questions I've been asking for years, and I've decided to be the strongest. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, we know what they are like with Slovenia. There's no need to elaborate them. These relations led to a blockade of Croatia's negotiations with the European Union. It is not a big surprise for me or for the Croatian public. I believe that you have stuck tightly with this situation as Government, but my question is about to track down the announcement that the European Union is planning to form some kind of intermediate commission that should do something about it. I am afraid, and I hope that you will convince us that this may be about trying to create some political arbitration, a compromise that would go beyond those true Croatian... I am therefore only interested in the end of the question whether the Croatian Government, as so far, will insist that border relations problems with the Republic of Slovenia are resolved exclusively by international judicial legal institutions, not by political arbitration which would in any case be harmful to the Croatian state and Croatian people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25022	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25023	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Mr. Djapic, since you have announced that you are leaving the Croatian Parliament and as a former colleague in the Parliament and as Prime Minister, I would also like to thank you for everything you have done for Croatia from the opposition benches, because serving your country and in opposition is an honor, not only in power. I will join because this is a very serious topic, before I answer your question which is absolutely much more serious than this, but I must join the President of the Parliament in commenting that it is unacceptable in democracy that anyone so well as he was the Minister of the Croatian Government, the President of the Parliament, the President of the State, the Prime Minister or a representative can tell if a criminal procedure is initiated and say these are criminals, he made a verdict before the court. Whether it was HDZ members, SDP or no one, not party members, it is inadmissible as it is inadmissible to replace the issue earlier in the matter of the Minister of Justice. Because when I'm mentioned in the case of a dependant, it's the thesis of a defense. The thesis of the defence goes that in the case of the Croatian Privatisation Fund official he mentioned the names of my and some other people in agreement with us and the state's attorney in order to get HFP officials to commit criminal acts and thus arrest them. That was the defense's thesis. Therefore, I ask that this be very clear and I will say one more time, whatever they say will not prevent us from fighting crime and corruption. Neither me personally, nor my government, nor the parliamentary majority in the Parliament. And now it's about Slovenia. Croatia and Slovenia are two countries that have been in the communist dictatorship for many years, the Yugoslav communist dictatorship, and I will say here today because the story of what antifascism is and what is communism and what was Yugoslavia and also because of these young people who have come here and who may not have experienced it. Yugoslavia was a communist dictatorship that killed those who thought otherwise, in which Croatians were killed and imprisoned who sought an independent and free Croatia. It was Yugoslavia and Tito was headed by such Yugoslavia, the communist dictatorship in which the crimes he was responsible were committed. And there's no doubt about it. That antifascism is in the foundations of the Croatian state and there is no doubt about it, but we share antifascism from communism and we say, antifascism yes and we are proud of our antifascism, but Communism is not and never again in Croatia. Therefore, in those times we were closest to the Slovenians. [[Applause]] We shared the most advanced and advanced ideas and were the most advanced in the economy. And there is one friendship between the Croatian and Slovenian people. And when I was asked by journalists two weeks ago to comment on the announcements of the Slovenian political leadership so that a referendum on Croatia's entry into the European Union could take place, I said let them make it freely, most Slovenians will be for Croatia's entry into the European Union. The survey was conducted two days ago and showed that the majority of Slovenians are for Croatia's entry and that they fully support Croatia and are against the referendum. When I said that, I would like to say that then the Slovenian prime minister's explication that they blocked Croatia and Croatia's negotiations in order to act preventively so as not to have a referendum that would then go negatively to Croatia and that is why the blockade took place because they are completely pointless. It's about this. Slovenia and Croatia have a border problem. Open question. The border problem does not date from the time after 1 May 2004. Why do I mention May 1st, 2004? Because then Slovenia entered the European Union. The problem doesn't date from that date to here, it dates back to the collapse of Yugoslavia. In other words, if Slovenia could enter with an open border issue in the European Union on 1 May 2004, then Croatia can enter with the same open question because it is not a Croatian problem, it is a common Croatian-Slovenian problem. That's what we stay with. Secondly, a very important principle that the European Union has repeatedly affirmed. This is the principle that bilateral issues cannot be put into the process of negotiations with the European Union. The open border issue had Slovenia with Croatia. Never in Slovenia's negotiations with the European Union did we encourage this issue, nor did we put obstacles to Slovenia entering the European Union. We could have been a country that had submitted an application for membership at the time of the coalition government. We could have said wait a minute. Slovenia has an open question with Croatia and cannot enter the European Union until the issue is closed. We didn't say that. As much as we supported Slovenia and were very pleased when Slovenia entered the European Union. And that the entry of Slovenia into the European Union with an open border issue with Croatia is much more difficult than Croatia's entry into the European Union with an open question with Slovenia is the fact that the entry of Slovenia into the European Union with an open border issue was the external borders of the European Union. Croatia's entry into the European Union with an open Slovenian border issue is not an external border. Even we are in a better situation than the Slovenians are compared to the European Union's external border. When I say all that, then I will affirm the principle, which is the European principle. Bilateral disputes must be settled bilaterally and have nothing to do with the process of negotiations with the European Union. I therefore welcome the involvement of the European Commission. That was what I asked for in negotiations with Slovenia about the deblocking. But I also remind myself at this point while we still do not have an official proposal on what it is I will not comment on and stick to the agreement with the European Commission and the words I have given. And the President of the Commission asked both sides not to comment until we're done. But I also remind the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public that on August 25th 2007, Prime Minister Janša and I agreed to go to Bled before the International Court of Justice in Den Hague. That this date, I'm asking Madam Vice President you're raising the sign because you obviously see that time is up, but given the importance I'm asking extra minutes. The deal at Bled was also supported by Croatian and Slovenian opposition. Two joint committees have been formed, one to define disputed points at the border and the other to define the legal framework and there is no reason for us to give it up especially because both governments, both oppositions, supported it and welcomed it by the European Commission. That's our position. Giving up on it would mean that someone doesn't feel strong enough, that his arguments aren't good and that he has a worse position. I don't want the Slovenians to feel that way. Make them feel safe. We will come up with arguments before the International Court of Justice and who has better arguments let the court rule, and both parliaments should be bound by the word of the court. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25024	Thank you. In any case, I've allowed myself to assume that this is an interesting and very current topic for the Prime Minister to get a little more time because we're all interested in it, regardless of the position and opposition. And that's why I'm asking you to respect such a single circumstance. And now I'm giving my word for lifting a plate on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You're giving up? Here you go. Vice-President Željka Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25025	Well, I was actually going to suggest something because, as you all know, I, as you all know, noticed that it was really a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but it wasn't the point of lifting my plate. Since all of us were really interested in the relationship between Croatia and Slovenia, we were able to include the agenda point, so the prime minister could also give more time and more extensive and detailed information to the Parliament, which I think would be a duty rather than jumping into our own mouths. Because the procedure is still the essence of democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25026	Thank you. We may have been able to, but I think we better not, because the times when we need to have a sense of measures, responsibilities and not to potentiate differences that could be negatively reflected in the negotiation process in the Croatian Parliament. I think this is enough as information and we can move on. Mr. Anto Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25027	Thank you very much. I am pleased with the answer to the question, the more with this response the Prime Minister clearly and distinctly and differentiated the relationship between communism and anti-fascism. That was supposed to be my first question, so he basically united the answer to that. I hope that's the attitude... The fact that, finally, in the Croatian judiciary, someone also takes action against the crimes committed under communism against the Croatian people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25028	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Mato Bilnjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25029	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ministers. My question is Minister Calmetti. The conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia was held on 22 September 2005 in Slavonski Brod, in connection with the construction of the southern bypass of the town of Nova Gradiška, i.e. the first phase of the southern bypass of the town of Nova Gradiška, from the highway to the industrial park. Mr. Minister, several production plants have been built in the New City industrial park in the last three years. Six are already in office, eight in construction, and built and equipped a business-innovation support centre for lifelong learning of older students and education in secondary schools. 10 million kuna were invested in construction and equipment, and a large international contract was signed with the car industry with the company Paulana, which produces cargo car seats and the company “IG” from Brussels and “IC” from Zagreb and the town of Nova Gradiška, where the construction of a production plant on the surface of 24000 square meters should begin in the spring and over 700 workers would be employed over a year. It is my question when entrepreneurs and the town of Nova Gradiška will be able to expect the start of works on the road and when it can be in office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25030	Thank you. Minister Mr. Bozidar Kalmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25031	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Representative, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This problem, i.e. this need to build this connecting road or south... The city of Nova Gradiška is known to me for the reason you said so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Among other things, it is that at a session of the government that was in Slavonski Brod there were discussions and conclusions about the construction of this important section of the road because it opens up a further possibility for the expansion and construction of the industrial zone that you are also talking about here right now. So far, a lot of work has been done to prepare the project documentation. She's not finished yet, unfortunately, but she's almost done. Therefore, as soon as the project documentation is completed, as soon as all the necessary permits are obtained. The local license has already been obtained, I mean by the way. Construction is about to begin, and I think it's two and a half miles of roadway. Here, thanks for asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25032	Thank you. Mr. Mato Biljić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25033	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I only note that there is currently no way into the industrial zone with a boot, and it is over 80 acres and it is a vessel of housewives for 80,000 inhabitants in the area. I hope she's still going to start construction this year and we're going to put her in office by the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25034	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25035	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister and members of the government. My question is to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Polancec. Namely, the fact that after the long-standing maesteral leadership of the Privatisation Fund, musicians still play their shares in investigative prisons. The fact that with the long-standing concern of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for shipbuilding as an industrial branch, and employees in shipbuilding today are the only ones they have, and that is their uncertainty in preserving jobs. The fact that in today's time of recession, the number of insolvency companies is increasing rapidly. The fact that you allow, or at least you didn't oppose that the state, with its task with domestic banks, literally prevents the possibility of borrowing our economy at least to refinance their obligations, not to talk about development opportunities. The fact that your ministry welcomed this gas shortage with a semi-empty underground gas storage facility, with insufficient amounts of gas and reduction caused damage to the Croatian economy by approximately 2 billion kuna. The gas crisis, the truth not only couldn't be predicted, but the real moves, above all the responsible government could have completely avoided. Slovenia, which is not a gas producer, and you said yourself earlier, 60% of the need we produce ourselves, Slovenia does not produce anything, but it has managed to avoid this gas crisis, it has had no reductions, and especially, it has preserved the damage in its economy. Mr. Vice President, since I personally believe that you are one of the few in this government who knows how to connect facts. I repeat again, who knows how to connect facts, are you really, really ready to take over the role of gravedigger of the Croatian economy or are you willing to take responsibility for the damage your policy has caused to Croatian citizens and the economy, above all, and resign from membership in this government?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25036	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Damir Polancec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25037	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Representative, as you started asking your question, I had the impression that it was still a question for the Minister of Justice, and since you were going to ask questions, your view went to another side all the time, not to me. When you ask me a question, you can look me in the eye, as I always look into the eyes of the one I give the answer to. So, as far as the situation in which the Croatian economy operates today is concerned, it is not simple at all, but this situation is much more conditioned by something beyond reach or beyond the possibility of the Croatian Government's influence, rather than what you want to admit or what you might be aware of. The fact is that at this point the world is harassing a global financial crisis, but also an economic crisis, that's a fact. This crisis is conditioned and is caused by so-called The second-rate mortgage loans that financial institutions, primarily in the United States, gave to their citizens and the fact that after that, such derivatives and such non-refundable claims in the interbank sector have started to be traded globally, and therefore not in Croatia. The fact is, that's why banks came to great difficulty, that there was a huge mistrust and that in fact, mutual business and money trading between banks were gone. This has caused a huge indifference which, of course, has also caused a global economic crisis. Today, at this point, all the leading countries, the economic countries of the world are doing new assessments of their own achievements in 2009, just under that pressure. The fact is that, therefore, some of the consequences of reduced orders, reduced production, reduced real estate trading, which is then a fall in the construction sector. All this is a fact and all this is caused, so something the Croatian Government has not and cannot influence. Just as the Croatian Government is not and cannot be responsible for Mr Putin's actions and closure, so the gas valve that is being delivered to the entire European Union is. That's why I talked before explaining the energy strategy and what we're doing and what we're going to do to never put ourselves in such a situation again. Now, if we're talking about recession, 18 European Union countries are currently in recession. 60% of trade exchanges the Republic of Croatia has with the countries of the European Union. Of course it will have an impact on the economy in the Republic of Croatia, but neither did this government welcome it unprepared, nor did we sleep, nor did I have the ambition to change my business and become a undertaker. That's what I leave for those who decided to do it a long time ago. In such circumstances, under such circumstances, Mr. MP, if the Croatian economy delivers a final result that will be positive, or if we have, and I believe that we will have GDP growth, it will be a success. If, once again, 18 European Union countries are talking about being in recession today. Inflation last year was at 6.2. We believe it will be at 3.5% this year. Industrial production in such conditions in the past year, so for the first nine months at a level of 1.7% growth. And I'm referring to the building, let's say it's a bright example of 11.2% of growth. Tourism despite all the problems...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25038	Vice President, try to finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25039	Thank you very much. So, tourism, announcements are good booking and solid season. Mr. Representative, we have provided liquidity to HBOR, the state will not be in debt on the domestic market leaving the possibility of borrowing companies from domestic banks, envisioning programmes for small and medium-sized enterprises for skin, textiles, shoes, wood industry, with the aim of helping and giving results, and our economy will do positive business in 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25040	Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25041	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. Obviously, I misjudged that you know how to connect facts because I can't agree with you that the financial crisis on the global market conditioned that we welcome the gas crisis with a semi-empty warehouse. You know that our warehouse has a capacity of 600 million but that we welcomed it with 370 of which 40 million were Slovenian gas that we keep for Slovenia. Therefore, the damage to the economy has been done. The fact is that we heard a whole set of nice words but it's also facts and the Croatian public knows that you predicted economic growth a year ago 6%, so in 6 months 4%, now we're at 2%. Very likely we will soon be which is a damage to the Croatian economy and minus 2%. I don't know if you've ever been involved or involved in the work of a cultural and artistic society, but I think any cultural artistic society with this kind of performance would get a lot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25042	Thank you very much. Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25043	Thank you. Mr. President. I will refer my question to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. Mrs. Kosor, I come from Sisak-Moslavina County, which is one of the largest in the Republic of Croatia, but indeed one that has the largest number of nursing households. More than a quarter of our population is a nursing home. Of course, the most endangered parts of our country have suffered by war the area of Banovina, Pounja, Pokuplja, Posavina and part of Slavonia. There are largely living nursing households, and they really need help and help. I must tell you that at this point, there is a lack of room available in homes for the elderly and the powerless. About 900 people in the town of Sisak are waiting for this help. In your ministry, at least the programme in intergenerational solidarity, assistance and care programmes of old households has been accepted in our field, so I ask you, on behalf of those who are not yet units of local self-government and regional self-government, and a large part of them has been assisted like Croatia's Kostajnica, Petrinja, Iron, Dvora, Sunja, Jasenovac in this programme to answer me whether or not this year the ministry, units of local self-government expect help from the ministry in these two programmes, means a programme of daily stay and assistance and care for older people in the house.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25044	Thank you. Madam Vice President Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25045	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam MPs, thank you very much for this question that allows me to present basic information, which is that in March this year we will launch a tender for new intergenerational solidarity programmes in 2009. Namely, we started with these programs as you know at the beginning of our last term, so in 2004, they proved excellent and here we are going to the competition simply because it is such an interest in these programs and living rooms but also to help in the house. So two programs are part of this unique big program. One is the opening of living rooms for elderly people where elderly people can stay all day long, so they are those who do not have the possibility of staying in a retirement home or simply live alone so they want to find company, accommodation, food and everything else that is necessary and the other is the help in the house, so going home to nursing homes and helping to do everyday jobs. We today have 74 such programmes throughout Croatia in 20 counties and after a new competition I repeat in March this programme will certainly expand. So far, the programme covers more than 13,000 elderly people. And what's very important is that we've hired 887 people through these programs right up to today, mostly women, and they're mostly women of that age when they're unfortunately harder to hire than 45 years, so we're achieving two goals. When we realize the programs in this year we plan to cover this concern with more than 14.5 thousand older people and, of course, employ an additional around 950 people, so we plan on doing these programs. Therefore, take the area to your county to everyone who is interested in expecting a tender to report but I repeat probably not this year simply because literally almost every city, municipality and county wants this programme in every corner of their county, city or municipality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25046	Thank you. Mrs Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25047	Thank you. Madam Vice President, I am pleased with the answer and this news that it will come out here for the undercharged in a month and a half, we have until March. That's good news for all those community chiefs and chiefs of municipalities who wrote to me and begged me for such news and information as MPs, the more some of them are and I've listed them here in my question extremely pleased with this cooperation. And it's really a big help in solving these big problems for old people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25048	Thank you. Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25049	Thank you, Mr. President. The question was addressed to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Polancec. Namely, the Trade Act closed on Sundays by large shopping malls and small neighborhood shops. But that's why gas stations become stronger trade business but not by selling oil derivatives, but by for example coffee, edible oils and other food and hygiene products and those in those places reach a price that is 50% higher than in other stores. For example, if the mother forgot to buy baby diapers and goes to buy them on Sunday at a gas station then the sweaters that stand in the store are 95 kuna there will pay 137 kuna. At the same time, a large domestic retail chain advertises to deliver an online purchase that is not allowed by law and that says, "We deliver more than 20 thousand products on Sundays." Which means if you order on Saturday, you have an order, they'll deliver it to you on Sunday. At the same time, the law protects workers not from working on Sundays all year long but only during a certain period of the year but trade owners still fire employees for not working on Sundays. That's why I'm asking you. Who is this law protecting? Who are you protecting with this law? Certainly not the workers, because they must be protected throughout their working hours, but they are still exploited, because of this law they are left without a job. And the question arises as to what inspection services do not control such procedures in the implementation of the Law on Trade.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25050	Thank you. Mr. Vice President Damir Polancec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25051	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The law on trade is far more than the law that regulates Sunday's work. The law on trade has been preparing for many years. And I have to say that when I talk about him, I am happy and proud because many parts of that law greatly improve the current legislation of that activity. Trade is an extremely important activity with more than 250,000 employees. And if you ask me who is protecting part of the Law on Trade that regulates work on Sundays, then I'll tell you, first of all, those 250 thousand employees in the labor store, it's usually a woman's labour force, which has greatly welcomed the adoption of the Law on Trade, including the ban on working on Sundays. And I ask you if you do not believe me to go to Zagreb to any store, ask and talk to these women, ask them if they are satisfied with the fact that Sunday, therefore, they do not have to work anymore. So you'll get an answer to the question we're primarily protecting. On the other hand, as far as possible, the expansion, the aortams at the gas stations, you addressed the issue to the right address. The right address, therefore, the State Inspectorate, the inspection services should do their job, inspection services have not only our full support, but the inspection services are already encouraged by the Ministry of Economy when we realize that there are these phenomena to prevent them from happening at the very beginning. As for that line of purchase, therefore, I must be amazed by your observation I didn't know that the line of purchase is therefore prohibited in the Republic of Croatia, it's news to me, this is news to me, and the country itself is smart, developed, and so Croatia is just the opposite of that line buying, so we have to do the same. So, dear Madam MPs, as for the effects, positive or negative, work on Sundays, I must say the following. Today is the 28th day of January, the 28th day of application of the new Law on Trade. Of those 28 days, there were many national holidays, there were many days when malls worked and the temperature in them because of the gas crisis we talked about was far lower, so it had a major impact on traffic. We, like any other law, will monitor and analyze the impact of this law, but 27 days of January is not enough to draw any excessive conclusions. So, we're going to follow the effects of the law, and the law as I said protects all those who work in the store and, in particular, employees in the store. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25052	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25053	I'm not happy with the answer. The fact is that the Working Time Act does not protect employees because they will work on Sundays for almost half a year under the same law. He's not allowed anywhere on Sunday, so neither is our law. I'm talking about on-line shopping on Sundays. At the same time you say you're not in charge of inspections, but you've sent them a message saying they need to do it, that's good, if you did it. But what's the problem? Some have called this Trade Act a law like Swiss cheese, full of holes and then it is actually possible to happen these phenomena that are happening today in Croatia, because you have allowed some to sell all the products that have not sold until then, and to those who live out of it, whose activity is basic, they cannot do it. This is the problem of many of our laws, and man is beginning to think that it is not an accident, but that it is done on purpose to please someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25054	Thank you. He will ask a question Mr. Representative Zdravko Kelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25055	I will refer my question to the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, Mr Pankretić. Today in Croatia we have more than 32,000 acres under the orchards. And it is absolutely certain that this is a major advance, looking over the past few years, because Croatia has one, as one of the priorities, put an increase in fruit production, because we are a major importer of that fruit. At the same time, production and vegetables increased, which is also good for Croatia, because we aim for one goal, which is that we do not have to import fruit and vegetables. At the same time, a fear arises from the fruit and vegetable producers, fear of having nowhere to store their products and thus fear entering new plantations. Mr. Minister, I ask you, what has the ministry done about this problem, and what will it do in the next period that a certain and greater number of interested parties can be involved in the production and production of fruits and vegetables?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25056	Thank you. Mr. Minister Bozidar Pankretic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25057	Thank you very much, Mr. President, thank you, Mr. Representative. And at first I'll say that it's extremely important to have certain storage facilities to store fruits and vegetables because we're all convinced when some fruit comes out of season that are the price of that fruit compared to the season. That is why in 2003 we launched a project that was supposed to solve the storage infrastructure for long-term storage and fruit and vegetables and in this part of the construction of ULO coolers. And I have to say, it started with about 10,000 tons of existing capacity. And when we see today's quantity that we have a hectare of orchards, you said over 32, 33,000 acres, our goal is to get to the European Union up to 40,000 acres of orchards. Then it's very clear that we need to track it in that part with storage facilities, especially with ULO coolers. To this day, cca was built. 27 thousand tons of ULO refrigerator storage capacity, which is definitely insufficient. We also opened a public tender in the last year, talked to many of our producers, but also to those involved in storage and in the public tender received requests for eight new projects, of which 4 projects for ULO coolers and construction and reconstruction of logistics centres and certainly in this section for reconstruction of warehouses and logistics centres for vegetables. In that part, I can now point out, given the existing capacity and with this which I believe will be built with this 25 million kuna support for 2008, that we can welcome in the future the rise of new orchards, but also new vegetables production with storage and storage capacities that allow even lower prices for fruit and vegetables when it is out of season. I believe that in this way we have secured enough capacity and that we can wait ready to raise new orchards and new production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25058	Thank you. Mr. Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25059	I thank Mr. Minister, and I believe that your answer will come to the ears of all those who want to enter into new production, especially those who have their own production right now and who were worried until they heard your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25060	Thank you. Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25061	Mr. President, my question is to ask Foreign Minister Gordan Jandrokovic. We heard from the prime minister talking about the European Union's external border in Slovenia. However, my question moves to the external border, the future, of the European Union, which is at the border with Montenegro, i.e. the issue of the Bokokoctor Bay. We remember the time when, as a cause of attack and aggression, Dubrovnik was mentioned just that border and the issue of Prevlaca. As far as I can tell, and as far as I'm monitoring the situation, I can see that you're very successful in holding negotiations with the neighbouring country and I believe that there are results as well. And this was held by the first commission and the meeting of the Croatian-Montenegro Commission to prepare the legal procedure for demarcation at sea before the International Court of Justice in The Hague. I believe you can report some results to this House. However, regardless of what the prime minister said about us and Slovenia, I hope, in a satisfactory way, I cannot help but wonder whether we are solving the border problem with Montenegro more easily than we are doing with our northern neighbour, Slovenia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25062	Thank you. Mr. Minister Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25063	Your Honor, I thank you for asking. Relations with neighbouring countries, the development of better and more content with neighbouring countries is one of the priorities of Croatian foreign policy. In this context and the development of relations with Montenegro, we find it extremely important. Of course, there is also a question of relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia and other neighbouring countries, but I would especially like to emphasise Montenegro as a country that has recently gained its independence and since the moment of Croatia-Montenegro's independence, relations are getting better. This is also important because there are a number of issues raised during the collapse of the former state. We are well aware of Montenegro's role in those times, but we heard the apology of Montenegro's top officials, and that apology was also a good basis for continuing all kinds of bilateral relations. One of the important topics in our relations is finally resolving the issue of the border between the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro. Of course, you mentioned that it was that part of the border on the Prevlaca peninsula. Therefore, on January 14th of this year, the first meeting of the commission, the Mixed Commission of Croatia and Montenegro, which is tasked with preparing a legal procedure for demarcation before the International Court of Justice in Den Hague. We held the meeting on the basis of the initiative of the Croatian-Montenegro government's president, Dr Sanader and Mr Djukanovic. The meeting was held in March 2008 and it was agreed that the two parties resolve the issue before the International Court of Justice in The Hague in a way that these committees prepare a legal framework, so that they give one, to sign a special agreement that would then be accepted by the two countries, and that would lead to the International Court of Justice in The Hague. The first meeting was held in a very good atmosphere, very open and it is clear that both sides are ready to find a final solution, so from this stage in which we are now, and this is the stage of a temporary regime that is defined by the Protocol on the provisional regime in the area along the southern border between the two countries. He was signed in 2002. It was signed by the then Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Croatia. So we want to turn this agreement into a lasting agreement, of course, based on the arguments that both sides will submit to the International Court of Justice in The Hague. Why is it important to resolve this issue? Of course, it is good and important to continue the development of bilateral relations. That's the basis on which we can also base all the bilateral cooperation. It is important, as I said, to turn the temporary regime into a permanent and permanent regime, but it is also important to send a message that both Croatia and Montenegro are ready in the European spirit to resolve a very complex political and legal issue. In this act, therefore, by continuing and implementing the ideas of the two prime ministers, Croatia and Montenegro testify that both in these areas and such complex issues as the issue of borders can be resolved in a civilized, European way in front of an international judicial body and I believe that we will see concrete results in the very near future. At this first meeting, we agreed on how to act, we tasked persons from the Croatian and Montenegrin parts who will be in charge of each other's contacts, and we very soon expect to continue the work of the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25064	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25065	I believe that we will work very successfully and achieve results that will be in the interest of both countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25066	Thank you very much. Mrs. Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25067	Mr. Minister, looking at this from a Dubrovnik perspective is very encouraging what you've just told us. Given the events that didn't happen so long ago, '91 and '92. year, compared to Dubrovnik and happy that you found a way and would still like to start to solve issues with the neighbours of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25068	Thank you. He will ask a question, Mr. Representative Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25069	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. I would like to refer the question to the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, Mr Pankretic. In fact, I'm curious about how much funds were allocated from your ministry last year to finance rural development projects, or how many public procurements were called for projects. Whether local self-government units participated in these projects and what was the objective and intention of these programmes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25070	Thank you. Mr. Bozidar Pankretić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25071	Thank you very much, Mr. President, thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Of course, when we defined the formation of the ministry last year, so I would say the very name of the ministry wasn't by accident either if we had put rural development in the name of the ministry. Aware of what is happening to us in the rural area that unfortunately a large part of our villages remains almost empty, aware of the need for more equal development of rural space compared to urban and urban space. We've defined the most specific tasks. I must point out that in the last year, we launched 17 public procurements involving 1967 subjects. Of these 1419, 143 million kunas have been distributed for these purposes. Just to point out that some of the most important competitions such as editing and equipment programmes for the processing of their own agricultural products, where 57 million kuna is divided. Then, part of the measures relating to the restoration and development of the village and rural space and a series of other measures, as well as the measures you mentioned, and concerns units of local self-government where they can point out that over 150 units of local self-government have appeared which are municipalities of what cities. Of this, 119 municipalities and cities with an average amount per municipality or city with more than 200000 kuna have been positively resolved where I stress the rehabilitation and modernisation of unclassified roads where we had 37 projects over 25 projects to rebuild social homes, 16 projects to invest in kindergartens. Of course, part of the project relating to street lighting, water network etc. The aim of the competition is to help the rural area, invest in infrastructure, invest in that part of the possibility of better living in the rural area and stop in some way leaving rural space. I can announce that the measures have been adopted extremely well and also announce that we will continue with these measures in this year 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25072	Thank you. Mr Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25073	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, of course I am pleased with your response, and I will be even more pleased if this dynamic investment in rural areas continues in this and in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25074	Thank you. The question will be asked by Ms. MP and Vice-President Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25075	Thank you very much. My question is intended for the Prime Minister. In fact, the crisis is and the fact is, unfortunately, poverty knocks on many doors. During the whole 2008 Croatian economy was operating under difficult conditions. According to some GFK surveys for Croatia, 1/3 of households barely combine the end with the end, and it already saves on food. The fact needs to be taken seriously, an indication that 12.6% less people were employed in 2008 than in 2007. At the end of 2008, there were 15,000 more people at the Employment Service than expected, and official forecasts for 2009 talk about a new 5%, an increase of 5% and 12,000, respectively. We've got tough times ahead of us. For the economy, this means a possible increase in loss and profit reduction, and for employees a possible loss of jobs and a drop in living standards. That is why I ask you very seriously, Prime Minister, what concrete measures the Government of the Republic of Croatia means to take to affect the halting of further job losses and the decline of living standards in 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25076	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25077	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Vice President of the Parliament. This issue is very current and I will say that the government is doing everything possible to continue the policy we had in last year 2008 in this fight for the standard of citizens. What policy was that? We are just for that layer of Croatian citizens you speak of rightly raised that untaxable part of the salary from 1600 kn to 1800 kuna. We made it all last year, although someone was going to tell me that they were not market measures or a market-based way of acting on the free market. We managed to keep the price of gas for households from rising the price of gas all year round. The price of electricity not to rise by summer, and after HEP had to do so not to fall into losses then in the government we brought measures to keep those most vulnerable, to subsidize their electricity. We've passed a minimum wage law. It's something where I really take off my hat to social partners, primarily employers, businessmen who have agreed to the Minimum Salary Act despite having had a terrible... according to that law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also appeal to trade unions that in this situation today, when nothing else will save our jobs but the economy and entrepreneurs, we have understanding for them. And the government will do everything for itself, and that is what we are thinking very intensively and what will be adopted, or proposed to the Economic Council in ten days, to see how it will help the economy to have this crisis that we share with Europe, which we share with the world gone as little as possible, with as little ticks and problems as possible. And in that sense, the Government for this budget, which this House adopted in December, predicted something that was going on to trace your question. And that is that the budget guarantees salaries and pensions and that will not be touched. This is the biggest contribution because today you have highly respected experts, economists, and even from your ranks and ours, we are talking about parties, we are talking about economic schools that propose budget rebalancing and, above all, decommissioning on the part when it comes to salaries. We heard before the start of the current morning and representatives of the IDS Club, the respected representative of Cain, who even asks us to withdraw this law on the salaries of civil servants because it costs 800 million kuna to the Croatian state budget. So, what I can tell you one more time. We have in the budget guaranteed salaries and pensions and that is something that will not be touched. Will there be any rebalancing? Probably will. When will this rebalancing be? Then when we see the currents of the 1st and 2nd months, according to whether the rebalancing will be in April, in May. He's been somewhere in June or July all these years. It'll probably be earlier this year. But at this point in time, calling for budget rebalancing, as some, including members of the economic council, are asking me and the government to reduce the cost side of the budget... First of all, it's not defensive at this point and it's not justified. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If that moment will come tomorrow, we'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25078	Thank you. Vice-President Željka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25079	Mr. President, I expected a concrete answer, though, because the question was both serious and polite. But we're still telling ourselves a story. They'd say in Dalmatia they'd go to the compartments, the other one to the spas. Three months of global and Croatian crisis, there are no new measures. And these so far, let's not pollemize, they haven't really produced any results. Perhaps I should face you this directly with the results of these measures the way our citizens see them. A year ago, at the beginning of your term, you could have bought this many apples, today just one. A year ago, at the beginning of your term, you could have bought a cheese like this today, only this much. A year ago, you could have bought this kind of bread, and today only a little more than half. That's how our citizens feel, and we can still waste time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25080	Thank you. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25081	I invite you to cheese and bread later.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25082	Okay. This was very visibly depicted. A little out of the ordinary, but what can we do? It's Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25083	Mr. President, I ask Mr. Shimonovic the question, although there may be some other resolute ministers who might be involved in this issue, but here, given his competence and well-meaning, the question is for Mr. Shimonovic. In fact, as the owner of apartments in the town of Vukovar, about 4,800 of them are obliged to pay the reserve to the forced manager at the apartments she has appointed, and according to the housing fund management regulation in areas of special state interest to keep the apartments neatly and properly kept. However, the question of resuscitation is raised, therefore, by housing reserves that were charged by the users of the apartments in Vukovar by the forced administrator with lawsuits at large court costs and repression, all disputed by the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 20 February 2008 when the provision of the city's headship was declared illegal. Requests for a peaceful settlement of housing reserves have been submitted by about 2,000 depositors and this is not so controversial, but it is a controversial way of using the State Attorney's Office in Vukovar and a two-way way of describing the reasons for the same problem, and with a time-out of only 8 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25084	Finish the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25085	I can deliver, here's a question, and I can provide you with pictures of these different answers. One answer can draw very bad impressions of this body in which citizens should trust. So I'm asking a question. Is the municipal state attorney's office in Vukovar legally entitled to interpret the Constitutional Court's decision? And secondly, will the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia be allowed to pay a multimillion-dollar return of housing reserves to citizens, residents of dwellings, about 2,000 in court and legal costs and possible interest, all due to the stubbornness, tenacity of the city administration in Vukovar and companies Technostan owned by the city of Vukovar who do not agree to a peaceful solution to the dispute or to a settlement? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25086	Thank you, too, but we're way past asking questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25087	Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25088	We have more, gentlemen dear 23 questions to ask, and we've all gone over 19, including this. Please, here you are, Mr. Minister Ivan Shimonović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25089	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I will provide you with the answer in writing, but his statement is like this. Of course, neither the state's attorney's office nor anyone else is authorized to disobey the Constitutional Court's decision. It's simply a matter of different interpretation of the Constitutional Court's decision. Namely, the Constitutional Court said the reserve must always be paid by the government. However, the Ministry of Regional Development found that the minimum legal amount of the rent would be at the level of the reserve. So what the state's attorney's office says is that people are asked to pay rent. Only that rent is as the lowest possible rental at the level of the amount corresponding to the funds of the reserve. I would ask that, therefore, these documents you were talking about be delivered in one copy to the state's attorney's office, in another copy of us, so let's see what can be done about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25090	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25091	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Namely, rent and reserve aren't the same thing. So that's first of all. And secondly, I have apostrophe and this dispute that will develop where 2,000 people are looking for a return of their reserves, which will really be one multimillion dollars which, clearly who will pay, is our taxpayers, is it? If that's where it comes to, yeah. And a peaceful solution and a settlement is offered, which I think is acceptable to the city administration of the city of Vukovar, is it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25092	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Damir Caine's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25093	I'd like to ask the Prime Minister Mr. Sanader. When I've already been called several times for these 750 million kunas for public servants, I don't know what Minister Shucker thinks about it, but I'd say again with caution. Gross social product falls, employment declines, purchasing power drops, VAT revenues drop, imports fall, exports rises, shipbuilding costs rises, loans drop, interest rises, foreign investments, liquidity rises, external debt is over 39 billion euros, etc. However, this issue concerns tourism land. In Croatia few but therefore chosen I dare say they own more than the Roman emperors possessed. I am sure that a Vespasian who had built a grand arena, Diocletian Diocletian's Palace in Split did not control as many shores as they control some Istrian or Croatian tycoons, some private investment funds and so on. They control more coasts than there is, say, one Slovenia that Djapic spoke of. The fact that Slovenia does not have has to be clearly none of our business. But what am I saying? There are companies that control 200, 300, 400 hectares of so-called. tourist land. They're all trying to record it clearly in their own name and nobody's asking how long it's gonna be like that and why they have to be privileged to this extent that they've been using hundreds of acres of them for 15 years. tourism land without paying anyone anything. So, when is the question going to be Croatia will pass the Tourism Land Act? When the state begins to earn some revenue on this basis, not that our corrupt judges are in the north and south of Croatia or Istria, they still make decisions that someone can register on their own behalf at 100, 200 hectares so-called. tourist land. So, is Croatia simply going to pass the Law on Tourism Land and to whom should this tourist land in some way belong or that these revenues should be shared or distributed between the state and local self-government?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25094	Thank you. The Prime Minister, Dr Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25095	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Mr. Representative, I was here in this House of higher education a few months ago saying that by the end of 2008, we would have sent a proposal for a law on tourist land to the Croatian Parliament. We didn't do it. The Secretary of Resort knows for one reason. We consult the European Commission before we send the law to the Parliament. In these consultations with the European Commission, there have been some issues they have raised and these consultations with them are still ongoing. So, I want nothing more than for the commission to finish the job so that we can refer the law to the Croatian Parliament as soon as possible along with our team from the Ministry of Justice. If this doesn't happen in the next two weeks, we will be here during this session, announced several weeks, we will refer this bill to the Croatian Parliament during this session. So, by the end of this session, the government will refer the law to the procedure in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25096	Thank you. Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go. So by the very fact that individuals use 200, 300, 400 hectares of so-called. The tourist land makes me deeply unhappy. What the European Union now has with our tourist land makes me equally unhappy. We were promised that the law would be in the process by the end of 2008. He wasn't brought in. They used one tourist season to pay no one, and I guess the free gratis will get the opportunity to use 200, 300, 400 hectares of so-called "free" in 2009. tourist land. To be clear, I'm not on some new grand scheme to jeopardize the tourism economy, God forbid because all the eyes of this country are against the tourist season itself, but I am sure that once again, I should like to express this land under "general property". So, state property, ownership of local self-government, not that, as I said, corrupt judges either in northern Croatia or the south leave it or transfer it to these or those owners of these hotel-tourism complexes. It's just not fair and it should be defined once. And that we should not endanger the tourism economy with new imposings, it also stands.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25098	That's what we're gonna discuss about the law. It's not about the answer now. It's about the law. It is up to Madam Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25099	Thank you very much. I'm giving my question to Mr. Shucker. In charge of Croatian citizens, there is an increase in interest rates on loans. That's what all banks are announcing. There is almost no family in Croatia without at least one mortgage. People were in debt because they had to provide a particularly young family roof over their heads and you promised them economic growth and a higher standard. Now they're fooled. Not only do they not live better than they are threatened and homeless. My question when banks raise their interest to 13% announced which would make credit rates for many of the citizens in charge intolerable will you, as did the prime minister, start calling banks or will you watch calmly when banks start taking over the property of Croatian citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25100	Thank you. Mr. Minister Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25101	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Madam MPs, I am pleased that you have discovered something that no one in this country knows, which neither does the governor of the Croatian National Bank, which is not known by the presidents of the largest and all other Croatian banks that the interest rate will be 13%. Perhaps it would be your personal desire to laugh at the eventual failure of this government. But unfortunately, it won't work because as the Zagori would say, "It won't work.". You must know that since the start of the financial crisis, this government has reacted exactly the way it should react. By making a decision to increase the security of 400 thousand kuna deposits, she sent two clear messages. The first to guarantee their savings to Croatian citizens. And the other thing is that he believes in his own banking and financial system. So these are two messages that were sent and then you said it was a financial crisis, that Croatian banks would fail, that the financial system of the Republic of Croatia would collapse. However, you have also seen domestic assessments and, according to international financial institutions, Croatia has gone through this financial crisis quite painlessly. So do you think that it is opportune, that it is not good if someone wants to impose new burdens on Croatian citizens, and it can break the burden of their own gain? Don't you think it's normal for the Prime Minister and the Resort Minister to talk about it? If that's what you think, then we're glad, because given that kind of policy, you'll be in opposition for a long time. And please don't scare Croatian citizens with interest increases, with this or that. The Croatian National Bank and the Croatian Government are doing everything possible to ensure that this does not happen, as well as to provide funds to the economy so that they can refinance their commitments and finance new projects. Therefore, this announcement of good luck by Croatian citizens is false and incorrect and I do not understand what your motive is.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25102	Thank you. Mrs. Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25103	You didn't answer my question at all because you obviously don't see your responsibility, you promised citizens a better life. And now it doesn't matter, this isn't about who's in power, who's in opposition to what you're saying, it's about the fact that people are getting ready, that they're on the street. That's the biggest problem. And besides, I can't activate that famous guarantee card of Prime Minister Sanader, which you pulled out of circulation after the election as completely worthless paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25104	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we've crossed 21 parliamentary issues, and there are 20 more parliamentary issues left. We will now take a short break by 12:30, please, continue with the parliamentary issue and will first ask the question of MP Mario Zubović, then Nedelja Klaric and so on. There. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're continuing to ask parliamentary questions. Please, we've got 20 more MPs and counsel. I ask you to ask a question concisely, and so that the response of the members of the government is also concise and to shorten. Most of it's out of time by now. We need to rationalize the weather a little bit. There is a word to ask Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll try to be brief as you say concisely. I ask the question of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. It's about NATO. We know we have two main foreign policy tasks. It is receiving NATO alliance and receiving into the European Union. NATO's alliance will appear to be very soon, meaning 3rd, 4th month in Strasbourg and Cologne, Germany, there will be a NATO conference and Croatia will be accepted there hope for a NATO alliance. So far, 7 countries have deposited their documents, 11 countries are awaiting deposit, so ratification is over and only 8 countries have not yet ratified in their parliaments. But my question concerns Minister Jandrokovic, to tell us what we in Croatia should do until we join the NATO alliance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25107	Thank you. Mr. Minister Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, you've said it yourself, Croatia has two major foreign policy goals. It is one entry into the European Union, the other is joining NATO, and I am pleased to say that when it comes to joining NATO, we really share very little more steps, very few days, and Croatia will achieve this great goal and become a full member of the NATO alliance. As for what we must do at home, I am pleased to say that the assessment of all member states, that the evaluation of people working in NATO's alliance that Croatia is on the inside, when it comes to reforms both military and civil, has done everything necessary and fully meets the standards needed to achieve full membership. I'd just like to correct you on the ratification. So far, 18 countries have ratified, but 10 countries, not 7, 10 countries have already deposited the signed protocol in Washington because the United States is the depositary of the contract and we expect that the process will be completed by the end of February or early March, so all countries will ratify and deposit contracts in Washington. Afterwards, the process that we have to do in Croatia consists of drawing up a draft bill on the approval of the North Atlantic Treaty. It is the task of the ministry that I am at the head of, the foreign ministry and European integration. After that, we shall send the draft to the competent state authorities, from the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia, the Office of the Prime Minister, the Office for the Legislatives of the Government, the RES, the Ministry of Finance, the Defence and all others involved in the process. Afterwards, it is delivered to the Government, which, after the working bodies of the Government, referred the bill to the Croatian Parliament for adoption. After the Croatian Parliament adopts and votes by majority vote, the North Atlantic Treaty is signed by the president of the state and after the signing and the Republic of Croatia deposits a ratification instrument with depositaries of the North Atlantic Treaty, so it is the State Department, which is Washington, the United States. In this way, the process ends, Croatia becomes a full member, and at the summit that will be held on 3 April and 4 April in Koel and Strasbourg there we will celebrate, so we will not become a member at the summit. We will probably become a member of the alliance two or three weeks before the start of the summit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25109	Thank you. Mr. Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25110	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I am glad that this is going to go so well, so I hope that our negotiations will go on as far as the European Union is concerned and that the blockade we now have will be resolved as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25111	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mrs. Representative Sunday, Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25112	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister with ministers, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to refer my question to the Minister of Health and Social Care, Mr Milinovic. Namely, an important part of the reform, the health reforms of the complete system are waiting lists. According to some of my information, waiting lists at local levels have been received extremely well by our citizens, by our own patients. Mr. Minister, can you let us know what the results of the National Waiting List are? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25113	Thank you. Mr. Minister Milinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25114	Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, one of the spaces of perception and real corruption in the health system is also long waiting lists. Two, three, four months ago we saw that on the ultrasound of the breast, the STAND magnet, the ultrasound of the heart, the hip endoprothesis was waiting, I would say, for Croatian occasions an inaccessible lot, somewhere around 8,000 patients. In two and a half months after we went into the formation of the National Waiting List, some were against forming that National Waiting List now on these seven-counted searches, of 8 thousand people, 8 thousand patients, waiting for 4,000 patients, so we cut by 50%. As far as I'm concerned, here's the latest data we got yesterday from the National Waiting List Office that was formed at the Ministry of Health, which works in a month ago on two shifts, that CT scans are down by 55%, magnetic resonance by 33%, heart ultrasound 45%, hip endoprothesis down 25%. I can tell you a few details of what you said and local. Here's what we're going to say for CT, Slavonski Brod, the average day of waiting was 60 days, now there's no waiting list. Well, in Vukovar, it's been waiting 90 days for a CT scan, and now there's no waiting list. A 150-day rat for a CT scan is no longer a waiting list, if we take if a man waits until 20 days that no waiting list. So let's go to the magnetic resonance. We'll say, General Pozega Hospital, it was 78 days, waiting lists are down 60% to 25 days. KBC River at 81 days is no longer waiting for a magnetic resonance. Here's to the ultrasound of the heart. The Rijeka Clinical Hospital Center from 65 days down to 40 days. The stand that's been waiting for three months doesn't have a waiting list for the stand. And that's the answer to all those who said that the principals kept the chair and the finances at the heart of the patients because we said you were working overtime. And that's what we're gonna pay for. Zadar has no waiting list for the Split stand that solved 3256 patients on the waiting list. So let's go to Zagreb for a while. Holy Spirit with 60 days. The wait list for the stand is now 30 days. Heart ultrasound by 50% reduced waiting list. It's been waiting 180 days for the network. Now you wait 70 days. And for CT, there's no waiting list. For hip endoprothesis from 425 days, it was reduced to 250 days, etc. etc. etc. We are, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has announced a sharp fight against corruption, and accordingly the health minister against corruption and the perception of corruption in the health system. All these indicators show that we are determined to do so, but determined to build this reform for the benefit of our patients in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25115	Thank you. Mrs. Sunday, Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25116	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Here, I'm really very pleased with your answer, because the results of the national waiting list are great. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25117	Thank you. The word has to ask a question Mr Krešimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25118	Your Honor, Mr. President, I would like to address the question to Mr. Vukelic, the defence minister. Dear Mr. Minister, full membership of the Republic of Croatia in NATO provides new opportunities for the Croatian economy. The opening of new markets in the defence-security sector is an opportunity for new jobs, for the growth of our exports, and for the balance of our trade balance. Croatian exporters are therefore given a new opportunity. Croatian exporters should take that opportunity. The right to participate in NATO's logistics agency's tenders is a real challenge. More than 10,000 companies are on the list today, and the annual turnover of NATO's logistics agency is over a billion euros. Croatia is therefore in NATO within 60 days. It's a chance to take advantage of it, but it all depends on our companies. What do you do to take advantage of these opportunities? Who's got a chance? Who doesn't have a chance? ... And who else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What to do to increase the number of those who can achieve results on such a demanding market. We need new products. How do you get to them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25119	Mr. Minister Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25120	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Your question, Your Honor, is very important and important in our time. Because the times we are in when it comes to the economy are very challenging. We all know that. There's been a lot of talk today, and the challenge is always a chance. Challenges are a chance to take advantage of the possibility of coming to new markets. This opportunity is also our membership in the NATO Alliance, and you mentioned the strongest NANSU logistics agency from NATO alliances that primarily perform jobs for NATO members when it comes to countries that have the same military equipment, weapons, in the purchase of spare parts, in maintenance. But not just that. It's about the construction business, it's about the food industry, it's about the transport. So, about many areas where we have domestic companies, companies that can be included in that market. There is a clear need to meet the standards. It should have quality and therefore be organised by the Ministry of Economy, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Small Economy Agency, employers' associations. On July 3rd last year, a large conference was held where our economies were presented that it was NATO's alliance, membership in the NATO Alliance, which are economic opportunities, and at that conference I repeat were NANCE representatives who presented opportunities for our economies. It's up to them to prepare. That's true. But in this matter, you mentioned some companies, companies that are still good today in Croatia, and which today produce military equipment or weapons that are present on markets around the world. Therefore, I would say that not only NATO membership, not only this NATO NANSA agency, but modernization, the equipment of our Armed Forces is a chance and a challenge for our companies, companies. These companies you mentioned when it comes to the production of guns, when it comes to the manufacture of demining machines, when it comes to the production of helmets, when it comes to the production of our ships and so far achieve significant results in exports. In the last five, six years, the export is about a billion and 800 million kuna. Last year, that amount was about 70 million dollars. So somewhere around 400 million kunas in countries, not only countries, which are not markets in the United States, but also exports to Algeria, Saudi Arabia, Italy, etc. The equipment and modernization of our forces is therefore a chance to also technologically strengthen our companies, companies and, in fact, go out to some new markets that they may not have been on before. And that's why we in the ministry give this particular great importance and attention. That is why it is also in all preparations for further equipment and modernization of our Armed Forces. It is about preparing such tenders that will actually give the Croatian economy a chance, which will give them one and stability through long-term bargaining. But who will give them a chance to be ready to go to new markets through and technological development. When I talk about it then I'm sure you should always mention the offset program one of the important elements of the supply of weapons and equipment to the Armed Forces. So, including our economy where we don't have production. It's an example of a combat armored vehicle. I will remind us all together that in this example, Djuro Djakovic has become able to transfer technology or will become able to produce something he could not or could not have had so far. In this direction we will continue to develop programs when it comes to equipping our army and our members of the Armed Forces in uniforms, boots,... All of which, therefore, can result in the development of our industry, domestic industries and its export capabilities because industry, production, is the basis of the strength of every economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in challenging times like today, it is also the cornerstone of the stability of every country's economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25121	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I ask everyone that when they speak or answer and ask questions they still pay attention to this red sign here that is systematically ignored.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25122	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, for this exhaustive, detailed answer. What I should especially point out, some of our companies that have been excellent so far have not unfortunately had opportunities for these markets. In particular,... He had a chance to win on many... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] tenders, but it wasn't possible because it wasn't registered as a company that was eligible for participation in these tenders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the real participation of the Republic of Croatia in this economic aspect of NATO is also important and deserves attention, and I would say long-term care and the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Economy and the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, as you mentioned, is an extremely successful international conference on the subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25123	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25124	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The decisive measures and procedures taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding the financial and economic situation in society suggest that certain difficulties exist. Economic analysts are announcing problems and the state of recession we heard today has already hit a large number of European Union countries. But they also point to the existence of certain opportunities and opportunities for action in these crisis situations. Since the importance of tourism, or tourism in our society as a whole, I am referring to Secretary of State Branko Grgic at the Ministry of Tourism as your assessment of the past tourist season, or have we prepared ourselves for the announced recessions for this year and what are your expectations regarding tourism this year?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25125	Thank you. Mr. Byce. Here you go. State Secretary, Mr. Grgic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, it should be noted that the year before is the most successful year ever in tourism. 11 million registered arrivals of tourists, almost 57 million overnights. This is also an increase of 1 and 2%, respectively, compared to 2007. However, what is particularly looking forward to is data from the Croatian National Bank related to tourism revenues. In fact, in the first nine months of 2008, 6,806 billion euros of revenue were achieved, while 6,739 billion euros were achieved throughout 2007, which gives us the right to expect that when the data for the whole 2008 year, revenues will exceed 7 billion euros. It should be noted that these results are achieved despite some facts at global level, primarily I think of high oil and fuel prices, high food prices, so the season is very successful. Croatia has long brought its entire tourism legislation into line with EU legislation. I primarily think of a package of laws on tourist communities that creates assumptions for improving the work of the entire tourism community system and the same, a new Golf Act has been adopted that will allow for significant progress and development and enriching of Croatia's tourist offer. The global economic crisis that hit the world in the last quarter last year touched tourism, of course. According to the World Tourism Organisation's latest forecasts, it is estimated that there will be stagnation in the next 6 to 9 months, and in some areas and the decline of tourism traffic, which was best felt by countries competing with us, Italy and France. However, Croatian tourism, all this is influenced by global players, our competitors have already launched investments of significantly higher amounts in tourism promotion and the preparation of measures on other economic occasions if significant declines occur. Croatian tourism should not fear for the time being for data, but with its comparative advantages such as the proximity of the main market, emitting markets for Croatia, excellent transport infrastructures, moments of fuel price we hope the season will be the same as last year, which is the main goal of this ministry. In addition, the government and the ministry have already allocated a significant amount of funding to the tourism promotion for which more than 200 million kunas will be allocated at the state level this year through planned support together with hotelers, travel agencies, foreign tour operators and other private sector partners. I primarily think of the measures of joint advertising that are already under way and according to the results we have already been used quite a bit, given that it is already January this year. Our main goal, I repeat, is to strengthen existing positions on the international tourist market and repeat the 2008 results. We in the ministry will monitor the situation at global level and all individual broadcasting markets, and we will do everything possible to achieve the full co-operation of the private and public sector that is now very much needed in order to achieve the continuity of further growth in Croatian tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25127	Thank you. Mr. Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25128	Thank you to the Secretary of State for announcing these indicators that, here is hope and encouragement and I hope that these very announcements and indicators point to the existence of these opportunities and I believe that we are going to know and take advantage of them, so I am pleased with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25129	Thank you very much. He will ask the question, Mr. Representative Ante Kulusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25130	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, I have a question for the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Djurdju Adlesic. Now in the Republic of Croatia, the area of governance in emergency situations and crises is not fully regulated. There are currently individual solutions to the response to crisis situations within the area of jurisdiction of a single portfolio there is no single system at the country-wide level. A presentation of the concept of a system of governance in emergency situations and crises was recently held. To what extent it comes with the adoption of the concept and what is the issue of the system of competence, i.e. how effective integration of the national crisis management system will be achieved in NATO and European Union emergency situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25131	Thank you. Vice President, Mrs. Djurdja Adlesich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Representative, for this matter. We have indeed seen some shortages of the existing model. Our goal, of course, is to choose between the best European models and the most effective practices adapted to NATO standards. That is why several possible solutions have been prepared. It was held at the meeting to discuss between three possible models. I think I can say responsibly that a model has almost been chosen which is acceptable to both the ministry and the President's Office, but I certainly want to tell you that the biggest part of that job that's been a big job has been asked for a lot of expertise has been done by the Ministry of Defence and Minister Vukelic with his team, and I think we are really ahead of a good solution. But I'm going to try to answer you to one very specific part, so how imagined. The crisis management system would be divided into two parts, operational and administrative parts. This administration would require the establishment of a new centre for emergency situations and crises and this operational part is really well developed, well-developed, and I certainly want to take advantage of the opportunity and tell you that during our visit to NATO in Brussels, we also visited the shrimp part that deals with crisis management, and I must tell you that it is precisely our employees who are working in the State Department of Protection and Rescue who have received great commendation. Somehow, it seems to me that we are too little in Croatia to know what the real value of our people in doing these jobs is, so I thank you for the opportunity to commend and part of the people who are already doing this job, and you can expect this spring, I believe as the minister has started a new law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25133	Thank you. Mr. Ante Kulusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25134	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'm happy with your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25135	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25136	Thank you. Mr. President of the Parliament. My question is for Mr. Health Minister Dr. Milinovic. The recent director of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, Dr. Bergman, is being investigated by USKOK. In fact, the investigative authorities are trying to determine where even four new dwellings of the total value of a rotating million euros are coming from. It is clear that this amount of money in the state service could not have been earned. My question is, Mr. Minister, do you agree with Mr. Hebrang, who, defending his friend Dr. Bergman and his million euros, claims that this USKOK investigation is the most common communist persecution? Do you, as Professor Hebrang, think that USKOK is some secret communist organization designed to persecute those who think that the HDZ card gives them the right to cave a million euros in each term?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25137	Thank you. Mr. Secretary Darko Milinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25138	Thank you very much. We come from two different political options. You belong to a political option that condemns, suspects and convictions and I come from a political option that I ask the institutions of this country to do their job and nothing else. You've condemned the former director of HZZO here. All that you've been reading in the media, Professor Hebrang has said one fact on a television show, but I really can't comment on those thoughts and that conviction of yours, but we haven't heard the verdict. So 50% of you have proven that you accept the manner of communist thinking until 91st to charge and judge. We heard the charges, but we haven't heard your verdict yet. Please tell your verdict in response.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25139	Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25140	Well, Mr. Minister, you probably didn't listen well, and you didn't answer my question at all, so I'm going to ask you to answer in writing and get the answer in writing. I was talking about the investigation. I didn't say a word about a conviction. But now it's much clearer to me, I'm no longer surprised why you insist so much on participations, on the harbinger of the sick, on forced supplementary mandatory insurance because it is necessary to make up for those huge millions that have been sucked out of health, from Brodosplit, to remember Imostroy, to remember the roadwork, the construction and all the other millions that ended up in party pockets and pockets of people close to HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25141	... Yes, go ahead. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25142	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President. This kind of violation of the Rules of Procedure should be sanctioned, I beg you, because according to the Rules of Procedure, there is no insult to the parliamentary representative. My colleague insulted me because he said that I never said that BUSKOK was a communist form that took revenge on someone. I just said what I said in public, and I'll always say that you can't judge a man who's not proven guilty. Your system is a past colleague after 90. Dr. Bergman, the newspaper that defamated him is not going to release the correction of the incorrect quote and the painting for two weeks now, the image of his property card. That's what I said, and that's where I stay.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25143	Okay. I've already warned, I hate to say it. You don't need what's written in public as a fact, so you show up both as a prosecutor and as a judge, I don't think the assembly should use it. It's a matter of consideration, and it's necessary to have a stable attitude to say so away from what's in public and what's not proven. Therefore, I ask all MPs to comply with this and the Rules of Procedure and to say to adapt their questions to one normal communication so that a question can be asked but also not to be offended in some way and to say so to put into a difficult situation that no parliamentary representative can defend himself because there is no business opportunity and remains what is said. I'm asking you to stick to it, two or three times in the course of asking questions we have cases like that. I think it should be overcome and acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and one normal courtesy in the Croatian Parliament. I ask Mr. Jerko Roshin to ask the next question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25144	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'd like to ask Minister Calmetti if you'll excuse me and I'll try to be as brief as the president recommends. In the circumstances in which we are witnessing that the Croatian Government is helping working types of incentives to develop the economy, entrepreneurship to make the economy any better, so that there are no more jobs. I have the impression that one segment that comes from the sea might be a little neglected in that or I don't know how much it is or how much it isn't and that's a shipping segment. The illustrations for example of Split's Sailor or some other shipowners, what is their place in the Croatian government's development programme and development plan? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25145	Thank you. Mr. Minister Bozidar Kalmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25146	Thank you. Mr. President. Mr. Representative, I said a few days ago that Croatia has much to raise and certainly what can be raised are Croatian shipmen who have been working on the international market for many years and decades in world conditions in one harsh competition and, as we can see from year to year, are doing better and better. It is clear that we should thank them and their staff first and foremost, we should thank the Government which has made it possible through the Maritime Code for Croatia and de jure to become a maritime country and for our shipmen and seamen to get conditions, as all in the world have recognised and maritime countries of format to say so. In this context, this one ship-building programme for the period from 2011, under which 9 tankers would be built, the capacity of a total of 528 thousand... and two different cargo ships, and the total investment is somewhere around $560 million. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it is really one economic project that will happen by 2011 and where Croatian shipers will invest this much money in building and modernising their fleet. The government participates with 30% of the eligible costs to equip double-plating tankers to protect the environment, install special tanks and other technical measures again related to the safety and protection of the environment and of ballast water treatment devices. I must say that this problem is fully in line with all the directives and regulations required by the European Community and that the Competition Protection Agency has approved and supported the content of this programme because they are in accordance with the State Aid Act. Just a few more words when we talk about what conditions, which conditions should be met by the shipowner in order to obtain these support, then we have to say that there are three conditions among other things, which is to cover no more than 30% of the eligible costs for additional investments, that the newly built ships will be registered in the Croatian register, so they will not wave any other flag but will be under the Croatian flag to say so and that the crew are made up of Croatian sailors. Here are the conditions that a shipowner must meet in order to get these support. By getting 9, 11 new ships, the most modern, I believe that in the competition match and our shipyards will then get a job on the construction of these ships. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25147	Thank you. Mr. Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25148	I thank you for your reply, thank you for what you are doing, with one comment on why the Croatian public is not clear enough and why such information comes more so that we can know what efforts you are doing in this field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25149	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25150	I would like to thank Mr. President, I would like to address the question to Mr. Shucker, the Minister of Finance. Mr. Minister, about 10 days ago, the press was just beginning to write, of course, until today it's not even denied, even more precisely, that the state budget at the beginning of this year is filled with holes, or rather one big hole of about two billion kuna. The budget is getting weaker than necessary, but we warned you and the government, if nothing else and during the debate last year, at the end of last year about the budget. However, as soon as it started to be written, it was not a day or two in Croatia that accumulated oil derivatives, from gasoline to lye oil, by an average of 7%. And as the people would say, they've collected nothing caused. Because on the world market, oil prices are constantly falling, and somewhere now it's about $34. As far as we know, even in countries in our immediate environment, oil derivatives prices have not risen. But they would tell me those countries don't have the HDZ government. And the citizens, of course, are thinking why, in a sound sense, the government came up with a way to patch up budget holes, reach back into the pockets of ordinary citizens, squeeze them all the way. Because they are always there when incompetence needs to be covered, but rather the government's irresponsibility, when it comes to planning and even more spending on the money of its own citizens. Of course, in the meantime, he pulled an ace out of his sleeve, why did that happen, that's the price of oil on the Mediterranean market, and last year we talked about the world market, the Mediterranean nobody mentioned. Mr. Minister, most of the citizens of this country are becoming increasingly difficult to bring to an end, they are getting closer to poverty. So what did they deserve, Mr. Minister, when you offer false explanations for purchases in this case of oil derivatives that can, by the way, cause a chain reaction to the prices of other products that we have already been and are witnesses.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25151	Thank you. Mr. Minister Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25152	Thank you very much, Mr. President, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So I'm going to try one of your own layered questions to answer with arguments. So what you're saying about the budget happened on January 15th, after we had practically 10 unwork days behind us and the normal thing is that it's not any reference time or reference indicator. Today, the situation in filling the state budget is far better and far better. And I'm going to tell you one more thing, the minus for VAT is exclusively the result of VAT collection on imports because the company's activity in terms of working days was far less and God forbid it was a trend in import cuts. But I'm saying that's something, when you look at how much was charged on imports last year, how much was charged this year, you're going to get that's basically the difference in budgeting. So when we talked about it, we didn't say that we weren't worried about the situation, that we weren't aware of the situation, we also said in the budget rebalance that when we had the reference indicators for it, it took at least three months, that we would then approach it. And also, the Ministry of Finance on a daily basis monitors that the income and such expenditure side and we have prepared certain measures that we will propose to the Prime Minister and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and to our coalition partners, which should be taken at the moment. So it's simply the truth that some things don't happen. It's not my fault that you're living in the delusion that state finances are in a terrible mess like you left them. Today it looks quite different. And as for the price of oil derivatives, the formula for calculating the price of oil derivatives, I don't think it's a change in the last or 2 or 3, 2 or 3 years, and the average price of the Mediterranean has been talked about in the century. Therefore, do not deceive the Croatian public because of petty political interests. So, the formula has been constant for two or three years, there has been no price hike, because those few VAT drops they would eventually pick would not change anything into a budget, because they would fill the state budget. The second thing, what I said last year several times, I'm going to do it again and again, as some have used as a reason to increase the prices of oil derivatives, let them now also use it as a reason for reducing prices. Because if there was a reason for a plus, let that be their reason in a negative. And that's what this government, the Prime Minister and all the government ministers say all the time. Therefore, Madam MPs, because of the Croatian public and Croatian citizens, Croatian state finances are stable. The Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has precise measures that we can react at a certain time. It's another thing. The income from income tax and income from contributions most clearly shows that all these stories of layoffs and wage cuts are not true, because to be true then these revenues would fall and not grow. Therefore, this is a topic that is not for daily political bickering. This is a topic that affects neither HDZ nor SDP or HSS, which affects all Croatian citizens and this is a topic that we should all think about together how to get out of it, not trying to collect cheap political points. [[Good job, good job.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25153	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25154	Mr. Minister, what is for you is the collection of cheap political points and how you said petty political interests, because I dared to ask you to explain as Minister of Finance to the Croatian public why there was a collection of oil derivatives in Croatia. You call it petty political interests, and the citizens of this country feel it every day in their own pockets not only by buying gasoline or buying a lot of oil, but also by buying it in our shops. That's what this is about, Mr. Secretary Shuker. You have absolutely not answered my question, and if you are already mentioning the world Mediterranean market and in this sense you are trying to explain, then perhaps you too have read the statements of experts who have said if there was already to be a collection, this collection should not have been more than 1%, so perhaps we could talk about these fines. I repeat, what you have in common is a small slip, for the citizens of this country, a way to survive from day to day and to scrape the beginning and end of the month, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25155	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25156	Your Honor. Your Honor, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a question. So, going to the Parliament meeting today, I stopped by the store. I wanted to buy something from home products. Everyone's talking in their voice. Will you make it up to me?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25157	Please! Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25158	I wanted to buy something from home products. I was amazed. The garlic is from China. It's a radio from Italy. You can choose Canadian, Argentine or Chinese beans. Pickles, Italy. Carrot, you can choose Austria or Italy. It's a blitz from Italy. A paprika from Spain. Flowers, Italy. The pear, Spain. Nuts from Turkey. A silver onion from Spain and a clump from Russia. My question is where 6 billion kuna was spent to encourage agriculture if most of what we can buy today in shops in Croatia comes from imports.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25159	Prime Minister, come in. Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25160	Dear Mr. Representative, I welcome such an interesting performance on your part as you may have seen earlier from the vice president, your colleague from the party. But I don't understand one thing, so I'll come to the answer, why didn't you buy and ask what the Croatian product was and give the money you spent... Because we all, including you, so at least I understand your initiative, support the purchase and consumption of Croatian products, so I don't understand why you didn't ask there what Croatian product and bought it and gave it money....... [[Applause]] [['Cause he was looking for these. He was just looking for these.]] There's, there's, there's just a need... There are Croatian products, but there is something else and it is the fact that more and more people in Croatia have joined this action "Bought Croatian" and it was given yesterday by the Chamber of Commerce and Statistics. Therefore, I see no reason why we would now, and I suppose this stems from your question, a suggestion that the government closes its borders to foreign products. That was during the five-year-old. In the modern social market economy, this cannot happen. To protect our production, we will. And that's why those six billion or something less, which is what you were talking about. That we'll be buying our own because we're free people and I can buy for my money what I want, so I feel bad that you spent that money on foreign products, not on Croatians, and that's true. But to close the border, it could have been during the five-year period, but today you can't. Today it is a social market economy and only to the awareness of citizens, including representatives and mayors, to take care of it, not to perform a show and propagate foreign products. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25161	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25162	Dear Prime Minister, I respect you, but I ask you that often as I go to the store, you go and you, then you would see.../All speak out loud./... Then you'd see...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25163	... from Neretva this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's all there.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25164	Yes, and with great effort sometimes you can't buy a Croatian product, and that's most of what I put on my desk here. That's most of what I put on the table here. I listened to you. ... No, no, no. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So I didn't ask you about whether or not to close the borders because I'm against it. I asked where 6 billion kuna went to encourage Croatian agriculture. Obviously, it went more to buy votes than to encourage agriculture because there may be some votes in the elections, but there will be no full shelves in Croatian shops. And let me finally, bananas are not produced in Croatia, but I'm afraid Croatia is in bananas. .../All speak in voice./...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25165	Oh, thank you. Thank you very much. This is interesting, though, to listen, etc. I think it's okay. I'm looking for goods from Neretva or Zadar like this when I'm buying them. Please, let's move on. Ms. Representative Biljana Borzana.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25166	I'm giving the question to Mr. Prime Minister. The media has called for the last month on the existence of a contract between Ante Djapic and the government of Zec. To remind you, it is a business co-operation contract between Ante Djapic and the company "The Stone Ingrad" and Vlad Zecom, signed on 30 January 2004. The contract committed Djapic to lobbying with the government and Prime Minister Sanader in order to reduce the debt of the Zeca government, and in return, Vlado Zac committed Djapic to build a house or apartment. It's a typical corruption contract. A few days ago in the media, information appeared again that the original contract could not be found. But even if he didn't find it at all, it wasn't crucial. The consequences matter. Observed what was happening next, Djapic apparently fulfilled the obligations under the contract. The government thus reduced the original debt of 78 million kuna to 34.1 million. “The Stone of Ingrad” won the concession. “The Stone Ingrad” at that time had nothing, neither location nor building permit nor was it allowed to obtain a concession, which was specifically warned by your Minister of Environmental Protection Ms. Marina Matulović-Dropulić at a meeting of the Government in December 2006 and the public had the opportunity to read the transcript from that session in 2006. Despite your secretary's clear warning, you disobeyed. You insisted that the concession be issued and reduced by a man who was later convicted of crime. What Djapic got from the Zec government for the announced service, the lobbying service we learned these days. But we still don't know what you've got to help out the state budget and make one of these corruption contracts come true. So I'm giving you a chance to answer now what your share was in this business.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25167	Thank you. Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25168	So, Madam MPs, you from the stained veins, you and your colleague Jovanovic and others are trying to impose the party's court as a key institution in this country. You can climb out of the stained veins to accuse a political rival of this and that, but you won't succeed. You had until yesterday a chance to ask it, that question to ask your partner. You were the mayor together with HSP in the government of Osijek, the city of Osijek. I ask the question to the Croatian public why Mrs Biljana Borzan didn't topic while she was in the coalition with HSP.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25169	Mrs. Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25170	You didn't answer my question at all, first of all. Secondly, I didn't accuse Mr. Djapic. He doesn't matter at all in this whole matter, he matters to you. If I wanted to ask if he was guilty or not, I would probably ask Minister Shimonovic and he would answer me if the proceedings were ongoing or no one was to blame until proven otherwise. So I didn't condemn anyone or accuse anyone, but I'm just saying facts that you obviously don't have any answers to. And the question... Okay. They'll tell the judiciary. [[- Intruder, you don't understand.]] Be careful, it's been retreating since 2004. If you were your government, if she had the will to solve it, she would have solved it by now. So, the answer you didn't give me is that forgive me gives me the right to think that you're feeling very guilty about this whole thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25171	Thank you. The question will be asked by Ms. Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25172	I ask my question to the Minister of Health and Social Care, Mr Milinovic. Mr. Minister, do you know that children without proper parental care are children of second order in this country? Do you know that when they're 18 and when they're in college, and it's extremely small, they have to choose between state scholarships and housing in residential communities. Those who are located in foster families must likewise choose or receive a scholarship somewhere in the amount of 2,000 kuna or will leave the foster home. I'm sure you kids won't be able to set up an ultimatum like that, that if you fund them at the study they have to leave the family home. So my question is what are you going to do as minister of social care to change this kind of crazy law that discriminates against those kids. They're children who don't have their own home, they don't have their own family. They're children who are alone in this world, and then we discriminate on them this way and ask them to choose between the scholarship and the roof over their heads.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25173	Mr. Secretary Darko Milinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25174	Thank you, Mr. President. What I can say as a minister is that there are no children in Croatia, there are none of the citizens we can call second-class citizens, and in particular there are no children as you say second-row or who belong to the group of second-rows. But I welcome your awakening, I would say out of sleep, because these are the topics we discussed when I was vice president of the Parliament. I attended the 47th session of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. We've discussed these topics as well. And I've often asked where Parliament's MP Opacic is. Of those 47, you were only at 4, so on one committee we discussed and reached certain conclusions. By the way, since that's kind of a question and the sociale I have to say that I saved you today, and maybe it's about the sociale, when you got out of the store with that HDZ basket. One of the parents who works with these children ran after you to thank you for not reducing the salary of such parents in these difficult times and raising your salary in these difficult times. I'm saying no, no, no. Don't run after Mr. Lobster, he didn't do it. They cut their salary. So why does he say he has a HDZ basket? Therefore, the SDP must not enter the trade, so there is no second-class citizens in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25175	Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25176	I have to admit, Mr. Minister, I'm really surprised by your response. I couldn't believe you'd come down to the branches to politicize the fate of these kids who really don't have anyone. You know your answer is above all boastful of those children, because you have not been able to say that you are going to change something there and that you are going to change their living conditions. Second, Mr. Milinovic. You won't call me for my job, but here as a parliamentary representative I'm going to ask you why you're not doing anything in the welfare system, which is why you're not in the social care business at all. Which is why the other day you weren't at a board meeting where the profession was talking about the state of social care. And in the end, Mr. Minister, do you even know that you are the minister of social care?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25177	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Ms. Ljubica Lukacic will ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25178	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to Mr. Minister of Health and Social Care, Mr. Darka Milinovic. In fact, Mr. Minister, the Croatian public is in one doubt these days, and it is related to primary health care. In fact, there is a number of information in the public on how primary health care is burdened by the application of health reform. And other information as to how, of course, it is not true, how the health reform has led to administrative discharge. Please tell us for the sake of the Croatian public, which is true and if it is an administrative discharge, what does that mean for patients? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25179	Thank you. Mr. Minister Milinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25180	I thank you, Mr. President, and I apologize to you, I didn't know about it, and here I am, and you will confirm that I have called you personally and expressed my condolences. At the time, I didn't know that the session was delayed, so my apologies if I hurt your feelings. Indeed, this reform of the health system is going towards discharging, administrative discharge of primary health care team before a tender for the information of primary health care is launched a few days ago, which means that somewhere this year, primary health care must be without paper. There have also been attempts to declare participation in primary health care as a burden in the administrative sense. We also have data that 50 patients from 2 to 5 have to pay for the participation in their own pocket, so 15 kuna. Also, I would like to point out that the reform and in the segment of the stabilisation of the health system is going a full step forward tells us that in a month there are about 500 thousand new insurance companies in the additional health insurance policy. Yesterday at the board meeting, we made another decision, and this Parliament created legal frameworks for it, that is, that chronic patients who take a continuous one therapy don't have to come and pay every month, possibly if they don't have a 15 kuna supplemental insurance policy, but get a prescription in 6 months and so, 6 months don't have to come to a primary healthcare doctor. And that's now the dispensation of administrative primary health care. You've heard that we've also simplified the procedure for orthopedic aids. You no longer need to go to the Croatian Health Insurance Office on board to get confirmation that you can lift this orthopedic aid and a number of other things that we will do in accordance with health system reforms this year. And what else are we thinking, that doctors in the SKZ can sign up for red instructions and thus relieve primary health care. So there's a series of good things, and I'm saying, next year at this time, there's got to be primary health care without paper with one smart one, they'd say card.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25181	Thank you. Mrs. Ljubica Lukacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25182	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I'm very pleased with your answer. Thank you, and here's the name of people with disabilities who most often use orthopedic aids. This information that you've brought here now will mean a lot to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25183	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr. Representative Zlatko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25184	I'm referring my question to the Minister of Finance. Mr. Minister, I'm sure you're aware that recently in the city of Varazdin, there was a craftsmen's savings-credit cooperative that had about 150 investors and slightly less credit users, and the amount of funds in circulation would be about 16 million kuna. The members of the cooperative were mostly small craftsmen or pensioners, and the cooperative had an 80-year tradition in both the city and the wider in the county, so that it enjoyed residential trust. There were no affairs, and investors had an additional reason to trust on their part, so they invested their modest roles in this savings-credit cooperative, and they had confidence because, due to similar cooperatives that were not in such status, the Republic of Croatia also adopted the Law on Savings and Credit Cooperatives, which it had done business for such cooperatives and established a legal obligation to operate according to the principle of liquidity and security, to provide reserves for the possible write-off of debts and so on and so on. All of this was to be supervised under the law by the tax administration, i.e. the financial police. Last year, however, the cooperative stopped working and failed to transform itself into a business bank or some other form of business, so it broke out to the surface of an illegal business in the cooperative that led to bankruptcy. Of course, there's no money in the account, and the little investors asked me a question like this. They're of course concerned about their savings roles and they've also sent a letter to the Ministry of Finance, they haven't received any answers so far, so I'm curious, so my question actually refers to the following. Will the Ministry of Finance find opportunities to help these small investors to come to their roles, or at least to get an answer to their questions, or how they will treat responsible persons in this society who have clearly abused their position and will there be liability for compensation for those investors?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25185	Thank you. Mr. Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25186	Mr. Representative, I share with you and concern and in a certain way I feel for savings for savings cooperatives in Varazdin. But you know well that exactly, in order not to have such things happened in Virovitica and in some other cities in recent years, we have changed the financial laws that went towards the maximum protection of the savings roles of Croatian citizens and so we have determined that practically banks, savings banks, housing savings banks should be credit institutions in the future and their owners should, in accordance with the law, secure savings deposits to those 400 thousand kunas, as we have brought the amendments to the law in the 10th month. You know very well that the crafts-credit cooperative in Varazdin failed to reshape. They tried this with a craftsman's savings-credit cooperative from Zagreb, tried both with Zagreb's savings woman and unfortunately failed. And as you say, at the moment the liquidation was launched, the liquidator noticed that certain things were happening inside, I say he noticed under quotes until the investigation and the inspection report were completed, we can't say anything. There's already been an inspection by the finance ministry for six months. I would also like to say that a large part of this cooperative's claim is being sued. And it's been sitting in court for tens and more years because the total claims are about 12 million, of which 5 million kuna is the principal and 7 million kunas are interest, it clearly says how old these claims are. So, unfortunately, until the process is over, we will see how much of this will be done and who will succeed from how much of the savings will be managed because you know that, under the old law, savings-credit cooperatives were not obliged to provide savings, and that clearly should be referred to by citizens that there may be some greater interest, but the risk is far greater because no one guarantees you for your savings. If a memo has come to the Ministry of Finance and if it is not answered, I publicly apologize to all those who sent it, I promise that it will be held accountable as soon as possible, and also when the finding is completed, what can be made available in accordance with the positive regulations, you will be informed of what has been found.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25187	Thank you. Mr. Zlatko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25188	Well, I think the least important thing is if I'm satisfied with the answer, it's whether it's going to be these little investors. The point was that it was all happening in front of the tax administration or the financial police and that there was no monitoring done that was due in due time to detect these negativity and to prevent this extreme damage. I'll tell the investors your answer, and I'll ask for a written answer in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25189	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zdravko Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25190	I'm going to ask Mr. Prime Minister a question. Namely, the Government of the Republic of Croatia was known in the period 2004-2006 to have braked all control mechanisms towards Požega-Slavon County and based on this with 310 million kuna damages financially broke and went into bankruptcy so that the county went to all its companies and institutions. After the 2005 extraordinary elections The SDP's power through redefining commitments, through reprogrammes, through settlements began to resuscitate, so the settlement of creditors and the extraction from the liquidation, bankruptcy and inert business of certain companies. It is important to know that during these three years, we have filled up the creditors with 40.3 million kunas, which, together with the remaining 270 million, we will try to collect from the state budget most likely by judicial means because the settlement does not give results so far. The public is also known that in the county we managed to stop the madness that reigned, that today, for example, the company "Zupanski Radio" is profitable, that there are no donations from the county budget. It is known that we have completed the winding-up procedure over the county centre as it is known that we have completed the seven-year bankruptcy over the only pharmacy in Croatia that has managed to go bankrupt. The public needs to know that we have left to complete the bankruptcy of ZUC, that we could have ended it three months ago but today they are blackmailing Croatian roads and they are making it impossible for us. Namely, for your signature on the agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25191	Ask a question, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25192	The question is there. The agreement on the transfer of demand is only 919 kuna and under the pressure of MP Lucic, who is a member of the Croatian Road Supervisory Board, is also asking us to transfer some land to them. That's why the question to Mr. Prime Minister. First, will you or won't you be refunding for the time being the first tranche of those 40.3 million kunas we've eaten? And secondly, will you reason with Mr. Lucic not to prevent the director of the Croatian Roads who wants to put his signature on getting ZUC out of bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25193	Thank you very much. This was an elaborate that lasted far longer than was foreseen in the Rules of Procedure. But please, you've indicated here that you're asking the Minister of Finance a question, so now you're re-adresting it to the Prime Minister. There's the finance minister here and he'll answer that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25194	Excuse me, I asked the Prime Minister a question and delivered it seven days ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25195	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25196	I don't know, it could be a press error.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25197	Ivan Shuker will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25198	Thank you very much. Mr. President. This is a story that's been going on for a long time and it's been discussing this Parliament and Mr. Ronko keeps telling some kind of story of his own. Now you can think of what a county that has an election budget of 20 million would look like and is invested in 270 million. Where would that be? That's what you need to see. After all, if that happens then the roads and everything else are done. The second thing, both the state audit findings and the budgetary surveillance findings showed something else entirely. Thirdly, you tried to reroute the money that went to school and other institutions of social care into these political accounts in accordance with the Budget Law and the Budget Implementation Act. We took advantage of the possibility and direct money from the state budget directed towards schools. Therefore, both schools and social institutions in the Požega-Slavon County area all these years function most normally just because we stopped you from doing what you did in the town of Požega and later in the county. Therefore, it is simply incorrect to do so all the things you claim to be true. The second thing, the Supervisory Authority of the Central State Administration has found to you that those decisions on your credit reprogramme are against the law because you did not ask for the consent of the one to be sought. Therefore, you have made a series of actions that are not in accordance with the law, and now you expect again before the local elections that you will achieve something. I repeat, a county that has a budget of 20 million can't go into a year, two or three to cut 270 million, and how would they find that kind of money? The second thing is that today, something of the HDZ's is standardly repeated, the HDZ's are at the edge of the law or against the law, the HDZ's are putting pressure on you, and you didn't step away from it, so you started accusing your fellow Parliament colleague Franjo Lucic of something you don't have any proof of. So, Mr. Ronko, if we believe in the rule of law, if we believe in legal institutions, you have the State Audit report, you have the budget control, you have the Central State Administration Office's findings and they're all diametrically contrary to what you claim. Well, after all, and the debate in this House that was initiated by the SDP's Club of Representatives, and then the late President Ivica Racan party at one point withdrew all SDP MPs from arguing no longer because you simply didn't have the arguments for what you're saying. So you can talk as much as you want. The government is helping Požega-Slavon County, helping the city of Požega. However, it will not help you to solve strange acts because you are ultimately accusing of something Bagaric. You've done exactly the same thing as Mayor Požega.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25199	Mr. Zdravko Ronko, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25200	Everything Minister Shuker said, I sign is false, from beginning to end. But although I did not get an answer from the prime minister and asked, I am happy with the answer because I asked the first question in order to warn of the possible millions of damages that will arise for the state budget when we enter the suit. Namely, interest alone, Mr. Minister, you can laugh, but interest alone will reach not tens but hundreds of millions of kunas. Just like you, as minister, forced the force with Pozeg and the city of Pozeg and the government and you didn't want to settle that purchase deal, that 14 million. Now, now, my dear minister, when you're done now because the Supreme Court verdict has said yours, now you have to settle 14 million kuna and 11.5 million interest, it's a damage to me in the state budget. But if you're not doing well, don't rush, I'm doing better than last year, and I have time to wait. And second question, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25201	Well, thank you. You took before and after more time than it belongs to you, I beg your pardon. And besides, besides that, Mr. Representative. You claim to have asked Mr. Sanader, the SDP Club has sent a question that raises the 8th question of Finance Minister Ivan Shucker, Internal Policy, Representative Zdravko Rocco. Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Josip Djakic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25202	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Vice President, Mr. Minister. My question is addressed to the Secretary of Defense. Mr. Defence Minister, the question is whether the Department of Defense plans to do what it plans to do with apartments owned by the Ministry of Defence at locations that are now... The Ministry of Defence and where there is no longer a need for military facilities that have been given to cities or other purposes, which these dwellings that have remained empty, which are no longer needed for the staff of the defence ministry, which you think to do with them in future time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25203	Thank you. Mr. Minister Branko Vukelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25204	Thank you, Mr. President, I'll be very brief and clear. At the very beginning of last year, the government made it clear that it wanted to raise the standard of living and working on members of the Armed Forces. The pay is raised, other announcements of raising standards of life are also apartments, solving dwellings, any of those official apartments, for which they have the needs of our Armed Forces, where we are located, in those cities and municipalities where we have our own units, whether they are talking about apartments needed for those personnel and professions that we find difficult to attract Armed Forces. I often mentioned, spoke, an example of a pilot. Payments in the Armed Forces far less than in the civil sector, one of the models is to give the possibility of more favourable arrival and resolution of a really residential issue. To do that, we need to find sources of funding. One way to find the source of funding is to sell apartments for which there is no need in the MRL itself because their locations do not correspond to the deployment of our units, and besides that in these apartments are people who have rent solutions and cannot be thrown out onto the street. So, the sale of 1900 is such apartments, it will enable us to provide financial resources for building apartments for the needs of the Armed Forces, and on the other hand it will also be possible in a favourable way to resolve, to deal permanently with the housing issue of people who are in those apartments. So, it's 1900 apartments, it's a model that when the regulation lives its final form to go into procedure towards the government, and very soon, it's going to be a possibility of a favourable purchase of apartment with value and investment in those apartments, if people have invested in apartments where they have a discount of 25% if they're bought once and paid off for 20 years with favourable interest. So it's a model of solving the issues of the housing of these people who are in the apartments, but also financing the construction of our apartments for the needs of the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25205	Mr. Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25206	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, for the specific answer. I believe that you will be very helpful to all those who were members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, and you will also help those who are future personnel and... In the Ministry of Defense, you will provide them with housing; then you will give them a better will both for life and for the work of the Ministry of Defence itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much for the specific answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25207	Thank you. They'll ask a question, Mr. Representative Petar Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25208	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, gentlemen of the Vice-Presidents of the Croatian Government, ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Republic of Croatia is looking for 1062 people from the Homeland War, the Vukovar-Srijem County is looking for 471 people, and the City of Vukovar is looking for another 360 people. My question is to Mrs Jadranka Kosor, vice-president of the Croatian government and the minister of the family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity. On behalf of werewolves and all mothers from all over Croatia looking for their loved ones, my question is: missing persons, or better said captured and violently taken, what did the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity do in last 2008 in connection with the search for missing persons in the Homeland War? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25209	Madam Vice President Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25210	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I thank you for asking, because here I can say a few words about a job that is constantly going on, which unfortunately is rarely spoken out in public, simply because it is not particularly interesting to the media or here are many. However, the job that is extremely difficult is certainly the problem of families of imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders, but also of civilians is definitely one of the biggest humanitarian problems in Croatia that we continue to deal with. We, as I believe you know, you who are from that area where unfortunately we're still looking for a larger number of those on the 91s list, or 92s, so together we have this data, so from the 91st, 92s. 1062 people, but also 827 people on the 95th list. Over the past year, the activity has been very intense. Among other things, I will mention that we have received information about 55 possible sites of mass and individual tombs. I mention that number because every indication, all of it, was signed by letter or our number to which it can appear anonymously, is taken absolutely seriously and acted on it. Based on all the research we've taken, so based on this information, we've found 14 individual tombs, so we haven't found mass, but 14 individuals from which 14 remains have been exhumed. What is a big problem in this business, among other things, is that many of the information that tells us about the possibility of being an individual or mass grave is related to areas that are further polluted by mines. So we had to demand a demining on more than 29 thousand m2 of surfaces which, of course, takes time and, of course, I won't mention the costs because I think that would be completely inappropriate when it comes to looking for prisoners and missing persons. We also organized an additional action, one additional blood-taking activity from the family of people who are still on the lists. Namely, what is the fact that thanks to God science progresses, the more members of the family of the person we are asking for blood, the greater the possibility that, based on finding the remains of the mortal and getting DNA analysis. So here we have organized such an action in 28 Croatian cities, taken additional blood from 658 family members, and here, I can inform you that based on what we've been doing parallelly to identify that 102 persons have been identified. Of that 39 from the '91, '92, and 63 from the other one. Of course, we're always talking about the unique number of people we're looking for. We also received information in collaboration with neighbouring countries and then took over the remains of 7 people wanted or sought from the territory of the Republic of Croatia, but were found in Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. And in conclusion, I would say that here I am as vice president, but also the minister whose portfolio is doing this job...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25211	Finish it, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25212	Here, Mr. President, I'm done. I would have a lot more, but here I have sent letters to my colleagues who deal with these problems, so both in Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina-Montenegro for a joint meeting to see what else can be done to speed up the process. I'm expecting an answer, and I believe we're all going to make sure that these problems are solved as soon as possible. And finally, Mr. President, I want to say on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because there were some rumors completely unfounded that Croatia will give up the search when the number of those we are looking for falls below 1000. I absolutely deny it. We'll keep searching until the last or last of the list is found. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25213	Thank you. Mr. Petar Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25214	Thank you, Madam Vice President and Minister. I had a chance a month and a half ago to be in front of the Croatian Parliament at a conference in Belgrade of all the states of the former Yugoslavia. And everyone pointed out that the only Croatian and Croatian ministries, headed by Mrs. Kosor, were that they only fulfilled their mission both financially and financially, and that they had done a lot, that they had gone a few steps ahead of others and expressed hope that they would try at least as much to catch up with Croatia. And there was a presentation of our ministry that was very well accepted. Here, we will continue to work together, it is still our obligation for all of us to until the last one is found missing, because it is our obligation, us all Croats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25215	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mrs. Representative Bozica Solic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25216	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer my question to the minister of the family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity, Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. Namely, in the last two terms of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, how much has the victim of the Homeland War been taken care of and how much has been spent for their housing during that period? It is also important to say when the 2009 housing championship will be published.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25217	Madam Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam MPs, I thank you for asking because it also allows me to give one important piece of information, of course, to all those who expect to publish the list of housing. It will be published in all public administration offices throughout Croatia by the end of this month, so it is the usual procedure under the law that we do every year and on that list, on that list each of the Croatian wartime disabled people and families of the dead, imprisoned and missing, because they, by law alone, have the right to organised housing, to find out where they are on the list. I would like to warn you that this list is variable in this sense that there are still those Croatian military disableds waiting to come out of the so-called war. temporary HRVI status changed to permanent. So it can happen that someone who's in a certain place on the list that someone else who's got a bigger percentage comes after that on the list something more. There's often a lot of misunderstandings. What I am pleased to say to you, here since 2004, so in these five years, a total of 5032 members of the family, or Croatian wartime wartime disabled persons, have been taken care of. I have to mention that it's total, so from the beginning since the HRVI and, of course, the family are taken care of somewhere around 12,000, so one good, one big part right in our term. What I am pleased to point out is that 100% people with disabilities are fully resident, 36 during this period I am talking about building specially planned or adapted houses or apartments and here, in these five years for this purpose from the state budget through our ministry, but also from the Ministry of Construction which in cooperation with us is building apartments, about a billion and 500 million kuna have been invested for this purpose alone. What's also important to say is that this job continues, that the funds are planned this year. And if I may, Madam MPs, I would eventually take this opportunity to remind the cities of their obligation, so on the obligation under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence and members of their families to secure land and infrastructure for the construction of these apartments. If this is not secured in a city because of negligence, ignoring and disregarding the law, then we cannot comply with our legal obligation, but then we go to another variant that is of course much more expensive, much longer, which is buying apartments on the market. You know it's not the same. Therefore, I appeal to everyone to fulfill their legal obligation. Soon we expect the award of 60 new apartments in Trogir. Recently, there was a large division of 90 apartments in Kaštel. It's currently building more than 600 apartments, and about 350, 360 is preparing to build at the moment. Here, Madam Representative, I believe I've answered your question completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25219	Thank you very much. Mrs. Christmas School.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25220	Thank you, Madam Minister, for a very detailed explanation. Here I am, as a representative, a little bit and really surprised by the figures, the amount of giving and how many victims were solved and their families. This is the fact that it confirms that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but of course the Resort Ministry is taking care of Croatian defenders, victims of the Homeland War and their families, takes care of those who deserve the most that we have independent and free Croatia. So thank you, Madam Minister, for your great work and certainly the most demanding work compared to the rest of the ministries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25221	Thank you. He's going to ask Mr. Attorney Gordan Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25222	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm still Goran, but it doesn't matter. I'm giving my question to Minister Polancec. The “VUPIK” agricultural combination from Vukovar is the last unprivited agro combination in Croatia. It employs over 900 workers who process more than 7 and a half thousand quality fertile, Croatian countries in the currently poorest county in Croatia. The previous three privatisation bids for VUPIK failed. The last one, about a year and a half from today, has also failed, and the economic and social situation in Vukovar-Srijem County, especially in "VUPIK". Aware of these situations, VUPIK workers have found on their own, have taken the initiative and have found a high-quality investor in Osijek's Zito company. Business results and complementarity, activities of the company, and capital that is ready to invest in the development of VUPIK guarantee a quality privatisation which is in the interest of VUPIK workers, in the interests of the region, and I believe in the interests of the entire country. The company fully guarantees the preservation of the integrity of VUPIK, accepts a valid collective agreement and the condition that labour contracts cannot be changed without the union's consent. He accepts to buy "VUPIK" for one kuna and then transfer 25% of the shares. Therefore, the control package plus one share in the ownership of workers and guarantees investment in the development of combinations of at least 250 million kuna over the next 5 years. A joint letter of intent for the purchase of VUPIK shares was sent to the fund by Zito, the VUPIK company, the VUPIK Workers' Council and representatives of the two border unions. There's no answer. Mr. Minister, you've been sent a letter to hold a meeting to read about the possibility of such privatisation. There's no answer either. My question is why there is no response to the "VUPIK" initiative. Is the reason that "VUPIK" workers proved more capable of finding a solution than you and people in the fund. Are you Mr. Minister just incompetent or hiding something else in the difficulty of privatizing. So, are you waiting for “VUPIK” to go bankrupt, so that again... like some previous combinations... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25223	Mr. Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25224	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I will start by answering your question in a way that there is a Privatisation Act in Croatia, that the Privatisation Act should be respected until we change it, and the Privatisation Act implies and clearly defines how some companies can be privatised and should be privatised. I would like to remind you that the Privatisation Act says that a nomination must be opened first, so if there is no buyer then by discount, and then, of course, under the so-called. specific conditions which I hope will not have to be applied in the case of VUPIK. You said the three tenders were called and I'll tell you it was of interest back then, it was of interest and there were purchases of the offer documents. Unfortunately, what happened was that during the new diligence, i.e. deep recording, interested potential buyers determined the level of dubiosis in the company much higher than what was officially shown and what was contained in the offer documentation of the Privatisation Fund. That's why we didn't get the final offer. So I'm going back to the Privatization Act. I'm going back to the letters you mentioned. Of course we did. Of course we're preparing, so all relevant documentation for the call for tenders. I believe that the competition, that the subject of "VUPIK" will be held at the first session, the next session of the Management Board of the Fund, that the competition will be opened afterwards, and of course I expect more than one offer, and that offer that will be assessed as being best for that will be decided by the potential investor. Here, I answered you very professionally, and I don't want to go down to the level of what you last said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25225	Thank you. Mr. Gordan Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25226	Still 905 workers and their families living off that salary are at the edge of the abyss thinking about when they will fall into that abyss. It's obvious, though, that it's waiting for everything to go to waste there, so someone to come and take over those 7 and a half thousand acres of land, take over all the cattle, the agricultural machinery, the new administrative building, the Danube Hotel, the chain of commerce and everything else, and finally see what we've seen so far. The question is just, and I'll be free to say it again, who's going to benefit from all this and are there going to be one among the members of the government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25227	It's Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25228	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask the question to the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Damir Polancec. Dear Mr. Vice President, from the beginning of the second pillar of pension insurance, so from 2002 to this moment, more than 23 billion kuna has been paid into the 4 pension funds. 4.5 billion last year. The peace funds recorded solid revenues for 6 years and increased the value of the insurance company's assets. In 2008 due to the collapse in the financial market, all the positive effects were cancelled and the value of the insurance company's financial assets at this point is barely 4% higher than that paid. A negative trend in financial markets continues and a million 475 thousand 729 insurance companies, future 2nd pillars of pension insurance justifiably frights for their assets. Mr. Vice President, what is your intention, or are you going to suggest and do to protect property in the mandatory second pillar of pension insurance because, if it is to believe the forecasts for 2009 and 2010, there is a real danger of irreparable damage to the property of Croatian citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25229	Mr. Vice President Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Parliamentarian, you said exactly, since 2002, when the so-called "so-called" was introduced. public-private pension system. Retirement system holders in the second and third levels are pension corporations operating pension funds in the second and third pillars. You mentioned 4, I'll say 4 are mandatory pension funds with a total of 475 thousand, so insurance and property 22 and a half billion kuna. We also have six voluntary pensions, so open fund companies with a total asset worth about 730 million 125 thousand insurance companies. That's also very important to say. And in the third pension column, so we also have 14 more closed pension funds with 13,000, 17,000 insurance companies. So one very significant property was created. The management of this property is quite conservative precisely because of the fact that it wanted to protect the insurance companies and their assets. Investment management, investment management control controls in HANFA. HANFA is like an institution and designed among other things to and in this challenge to make an answer. Thanks to HANFA's control, thanks to the legislation which, as I said, only allows conservative investment. More than 90% of the investments were made by these funds in domestic assets, primarily in securities issued or guaranteed by the Ministry of Finance. Thanks to that fact and now that there has been a stock break, now that there has been a stock price drop of more than 50% compared to the value or capitalisation of the company a year ago, it has not happened that the property of pensioners has been injured, but it is still 4% higher, as they have said, slightly more than 4% higher than paid thanks to the legal framework which enables conservative investment and thanks to control by the HANFA which has proved to be extremely effective. It is precisely because of the risks that are still forecasted in 2009 and 2010, that we are not, therefore, intending to amend the legislative framework and leave such conservative investment principles. What today-to-morrow will be, therefore, a major shift related to the second pillar and pension funds in the second pillar, will be a change in the method of payment, so a contribution. The moment the conditions are created to increase payments in the second pillar, there will also be more significant investments and a new development cycle of pension systems. But it's not the time at this point to talk about it. We will therefore remain within the same legislative framework with conservative investments in order to preserve the property of pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25231	Thank you. Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25232	Mr. Vice President, I understand very well what you said and I have no intention of obstructing anything. I just want to underline the government's responsibility for the property in mandatory pension funds. It's not the same as voluntary pension funds because it's a personal choice and anyone with their money can do what they want. I just have to visualize the overall problem. I confirm that you said they were conservative investments, but it turns out they were right, I don't want to advertise anyone, and it turns out they were right for the second pillar of pension insurance that advocated it as life insurance. You know, life insurance at this point has better protection. He's got a foreign exchange clause, he's got resecuritisation, and he's still covering certain risks more than the second pillar of retirement insurance. Therefore, I agree that the government must take care of it, about the property of citizens. As a Croatian party of pensioners, we will pay particular attention to this and constantly encourage you to protect in every respect the property of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25233	Thank you. And as 41st, the last question will be asked by Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25234	Mr. President, my question goes to the Home Secretary. Mr. Minister, in a radio interview on the issue of why it is concerned with the staff changes in your portfolio, which is why, in their old places, personnel who have been ineffective and reluctantly causing a catastrophic security situation in Croatia, you said that the shifts in police are not now imperative. When you took over the home affairs portfolio last fall, you said otherwise. Here's what you said. Staff changes in police management at the level of police administrations have been made non-transparent with a huge impact of various political structures and stakeholders. And you were right. So everyone knows that the chiefs of the police department have been elected to the HDZ headquarters. Well, everyone knows the party doesn't want to give them up right now, especially not to meet the choices that are ahead of us. My question, Mr. Minister, are you aware that with this kind of personnel structure burdened with party counterparts, and without professional trained and impartial personnel, you will not be able to contain any street violence, robbery, or organised crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25235	Thank you. Mr. Minister Tomislav Karamarko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25236	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Look, you remember two and a half months ago, around here, I put out a program to control, overcome organised crime, reduce that rate, reduce its risk and increase the level of security of our citizens. You remember we said we were going to operate in several dimensions and the Ministry of the Interior took over those jobs. One of those dimensions is legitimate. You know that's when we said that we were going to bring changes into the CAP. So I have to inform you that the Police Authority Act is over and that next week it's going to the government, that's the part that we were supposed to do. Also, we are training at this point and police officers who will be in the post of police investigators by harmonising their work with the new CAP. I'm talking about organizational forecasts as a little introduction to this. We've also committed ourselves to some organizational changes. I also have to inform you that the police BOOK has functioned, that he is now in the teaming phase of the best people we have and the technical equipment that is very important, and by 1.7 he will be fully ready to function. We also mentioned that we would change our actions, our tactics of action. We made a commitment and we brought something that we can call a new style in our work, which is a proactive and preventive action. That I'm not going into this topic right now, but we saved three lives because of this kind of action. You know, we've had a few actions, we've had a few arrests, we've saved three lives in the last two, two and a half months. Just so much about it. As far as personnel are concerned, of course, that our expertise is actually a basic criterion and I have to say that the shifts in personnel are not imperative, I'm afraid you didn't get it right. They're not imperative in terms of a mass phenomenon so that someone would like me and that it's a good marketing product. No, personnel shifts, shifts are the need for our efficiency. And believe me, they happen at this point. I have to tell you that 40 people have been replaced by being at the M.O.P. Central, which by the police departments so far. This process goes on but I say it will depend on our needs and needs of our efficiency, nothing else. Therefore, these processes that we then indicated would start, quality and good processes continue in the MUP. Also, this personnel renewal is based on expertise.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25237	Thank you. Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25238	Mr. Minister, I am pleased to see some positive developments in the work of the Ministry of the Interior. Surely neither you nor I and it is not as important as how important citizens are to see these positive shifts. I asked this question for reasons because you and your police director put it on almost the same level as the legislation when you were presenting your vision of work in the coming months before this house, and I don't think that without professionally quality and political party unburdened you will certainly be able to deal with organised crime and violence, such as Miljuš, Radjenović, Hodak and Galinec if these things don't change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25239	Thank you. We're done asking questions. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its I would like to inform you that the Government has not delivered an answer within the prescribed deadline to MP Dragutin Lesar's questions since 19 November and representative Marija Lugaric of 17 and 26 November 2008 so I would like to ask that the answer be delivered within eight days. Continued session is at 16:00 with agenda item Annual report of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia. Continuing at 4:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25240	We continue with the work of our session of the Croatian Parliament. Moving to the agenda, the first item of the agenda is: 1. Annual Report of the National Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia Carrier: National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia; In accordance with Article 17(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, Law on the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia. The Management Board of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia submitted an annual report. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. The government has delivered its opinion. Would the proposing representatives like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. ... - Proposer's representative! [[You can't hear the intruder.]] E, Proposer yes. The Honorable Chairman of the Management Board of Pero Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25241	Mr. Chairman, Madam Representatives and Representatives. The 2007 Report is ahead of you so the 2008 report is already being prepared. Since I consider the development of the National Foundation for Science an extremely important topic to be the more I do this job. I would like to point out in a few minutes what we were doing in 2007 and what we continued in 2008, and the 2008 report will soon appear. So, in 2007, the foundation continued to develop the programme as the financial instruments of the foundation according to the strategic plan, and above all, the programmes that were related to the inflow of brains, so we developed a whole panel of programs related to the inflow of brains and support of young scientists in Croatia and programmes that support the arrival of scientists from abroad in Croatia. We have developed a program of guest seniors, a program of feedback for the maintenance of our scientists returning to Croatia. We've moved on with the POS program. Doc. and the doctoral programme where we have awarded over 60 scholarships to post-doctoral and PhD students in the last two years, and we have started with a programme together with a European molecular biological organization, a programme that installs or establishs support as we translate it into Croatia and in 2007 we have granted our first establishment support to absolute European standards. And last year, so in 2008, we started with Croatian establishment aids and yesterday the board of directors selected three Croatian young scientists who passed the same selection as our colleagues in the European molecular biological organization, but for all scientific areas. In 2007, we worked intensively to develop a programme relating to the social humanities field, so we launched a programme together with the European Science Foundation, the funding of the programme, European social research or european social surveys, and we launched a programme to build a Croatian professional title because we estimated that in these times of intensive integration in the European Union it is extremely important to develop Croatian terminology. And that programme is already under way in 2008 he fully revived. In 2007, we also launched a programme for the involvement of Croatian scientists in the European Science Foundation programmes, and about now about now a dozen of our scientists are involved in the European Foundation programme and last year in 2008 we also received our first programme to participate or act as part of the Eurocore, so the first Croatian Eurocor, or the first participation of Croatian scientists in the european programmes. Secondly, we worked intensively in 2007 to present the foundation and presentation of the results of people on foundation programmes, so we held several workshops, above all, presentation of results on workshops, above all, on those programmes related to support for the reform of higher education, because the aim of our programmes was to create knowledge, create experience and benefits in higher education reform, especially in doctoral studies, joint studies, quality assurance. In 2007, we intensified our international activities, so there were extremely many international activities and the aim was to include the Croatian National Foundation for Science in the European Foundation for Science and in this we succeeded in late 2007, so from the 34th session of 2007 the Croatian National Foundation was a full member of the European Science founding or European Foundation for Science. This, of course, opened a whole series of possibilities and a whole series of initiatives and the key initiative that we were carrying out in 2008 was to create it is called the coalition of 11 Central and Eastern European countries, a coalition where enough pulses of resembling and evaluators would be created that all the evaluation programmes carried out by the national foundation, i.e. to be implemented in Croatia at international level. In 2008, we started a workshop where we gathered these 11 states, we called it IPRO, or international... In fact, the initiative that originated together, which was developed together with the Hungarians, i.e. with a Hungarian-like organisation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2007, we worked on the evaluator, built the evaluator base, and in 2008 we filled it. In 2007, the same important achievement was the development of a document and regulation relating to the prevention of conflicts of interest in all the procedures developed by the foundation and, of course, we adopted this document in 2008 and the development of this document was supported by the German Foundation for Science because it was essentially in the same business in 2007 when we did. So, in all these activities, we have actually tried to develop identical standards that are used primarily by similar institutions that are in our advice, so it is the Swiss Foundation for Science, the German Foundation for Science, the Finnish Academy and the Irish Foundation for Science and, of course, the European Foundation for Science, whose members we are now full members. As regards finance in 2007, there was no additional revenue from public funds, therefore from the state budget. So the only income we had was from interest on that property we had until then. In 2007, we approved about 13 million funds for projects. In 2008, a little bit more so that a total of 100 million, 109 million as at the end of 2006, around now about 39 million were assigned or distributed to projects. Not all money has been spent because it is being allocated as project dynamics are forecasted, but for each of the programmes we must, of course, have financial coverage and therefore we cannot develop further programmes if we do not have financial coverage for it. So short, out of the 100 million kuna we had at the end of 2007. 49 million kuna is the basic property that is registered and not to be spent. We had about 50 million at our disposal for the program. Of those 50, we've deployed or assigned about 39. At the end of 2008 and in 2009, according to the programmes scheduled, these funds have, of course, been allocated, which have not yet been spent, so we expect that in this year, if all our programmes and competitions pass, they would actually allocate all the resources available as funds for trust programmes other than basic assets that we cannot touch. So, in total, somewhere at the end of 2007, 124 projects were realised or approved, and we evaluated them in total about 350. Now that number is somewhere around 160 projects. Our permeability is about 45%, or passing on our evaluations about 45%, with it looking like a good transition, but 45% is usually after the second or third round. In the first round, it's usually about 20%. So we're intensively working on all those who report projects to us. We are working intensively not only on evaluation but also trying to get them to fix and create the best possible project, and I particularly consider it an important procedure and all that we have developed and what we are practicing is monitoring the progress of the project through half-year reports and through final reports. Of course, the following can be best seen in the result that we achieved, which is of course not a report, which is that some projects, a lot of projects had to pay back money because they did not use them properly or did not have coverage in the results achieved. Now in 2008, we have worked intensively and our intention is to fully introduce an international evaluation, and therefore we have just come to an agreement with these 11 countries and 11 similar organisations from the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, and we are now working on a common basis of the evaluators and the way in which we will share the evaluators. In 2007, we worked intensively to promote the foundation. In fact, Split, Osijek, Zadar, Dubrovnik, proved not to be using enough funds from the treasure. Therefore, in 2007 and 2008, we went to institutions and interpreted them. The picture in your report for 2007 is now very different and much better is the competition and use of funds from Osijek and Split, much better from Zadar. There is still work to be done in Dubrovnik so that they can compete more. We also worked to promote students through the Science Award that we developed along with our partner "New List". It is a reward for students who publish scientific work, so for the published scientific work of students. We award three awards for three fields of science for students because we believe that the innovation capacity of Croatia cannot be increased if it does not expand and it does not start to involve students in scientific research. This is why we want to reward and encourage our teachers to hire students and students to engage in research at our universities. And of course, in 2007 we presented everything we do at the 2nd Congress of Croatian Scientists. In 2008 we developed until the end of the evaluation process and now at the end of 2008 and in early 2009 we are ready to take over fully competitive competitions and research for projects in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25242	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Ivan Bagarić, Committee... I'm sorry, I'm sorry. First of all, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, but not the respected Selem, but the respected Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25243	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Since this is the parent board, I thought I had to get out first. The Education, Science and Culture Committee at its 7th session, held in July 2008, considered this report as a parent working body. The opening argument was tabled by a representative of the rapporteurs of the report and we argued in the debate the following. The annual report on the presentation of the representatives of the report after the debate has been carried out showed that further growth and development of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development have been demonstrated by the number of funded projects and the corresponding amounts of appropriations, as well as the organisational consolidation of the forms of the operation of the Foundation, including the formats and bodies of international cooperation. Thus, the National Foundation for Science, and today the proposer himself, said in this opening report, has so far achieved 20 of which in 2007 for which the report 13 was submitted was open for registration. These are programmes from the area of higher education reform, so-called the inflow of brains, education of PhDs, partnerships in basic research, mainly with economic operators, sociocultural transitions, international programmes and awards. For this purpose, the foundation approved a total of 12.6 million kuna in 2007. Reporters have justifiably pointed to developments from the beginning of 2008 which are strictly chronologically not entering this reporting period, but also points to trends in further movement, which is certainly beneficial for the assessment of which a further development of the National Foundation for Science can or should be made. In the final part of the report, this indicates the position of the Foundation established by the Government of Croatia's Action Plan to encourage investment in science and research. The National Science Foundation is listed in financial, programming and organisational terms as one of three pillars of the development of science in Croatia last April, including the envisaged establishment of the National Science Foundation Investment Fund. By investing in people, ideas and by promoting cooperation, promoting excellence and helping projects that directly contribute to the development of the Republic of Croatia's foundation thus achieve the preconditions for contributing Croatia to the inclusion of so-called Croatia. The European Research Area helps transform Croatian society into a knowledge-based and knowledge-based society. In a special achievement, the promoter himself, Mr Lucin, said that he was assessing the fact that the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development became a full member of the European Science Foundation in 2007. The debate also assessed that the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development for several reasons is a novelty in itself in the world of science funding. The Foundation is harmonising the circumstances of scientific research in Croatia with standards in the advanced world, and the impact would be even greater if it were to be more determined, so the Committee found that from budgetary and other sources it had more resources for its principals. The Foundation should also carry out special care on representation in its programmes, i.e. competitions of projects from all scientific areas and, therefore, it is good that what you said in the introduction this year 2009. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously reached the next conclusion. The Committee proposes that the Croatian Parliament accept the report on the work of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development for 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25244	Thank you. The Committee for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, President-in-Office Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25245	I thank Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development. Therefore, the Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia discussed this report as an interested working body at its 10th session. After the introduction of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia, a debate was held with special reference to the parts of the reports concerning programmes that encourage Croatian scientists to return to Croatia as well as the joint cooperation of Croatian scientists in their homeland and emigrants. It has been assessed that the Foundation's task and all that the Foundation has done in the year in question is in line with the strategic provisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to the importance of human potential and investment in knowledge and science as a prerequisite for the development of the economy and for achieving full social stability. It is also particularly important to assess the promotion of scientific activities in young and talented students. Support to Congress of Croatian scientists from both home and abroad has been welcomed both by the foundation and by the competent ministry and Croatian universities. Support is given to the regularity of holding these conventions as an instrument of meeting and cooperation of Croatian scientists who aim to achieve their kind I would say among Croatian cooperation, but also international scientific cooperation that will ultimately contribute to the inflow of brains in Croatia. In this regard, the Committee supported activities such as those held in December, called "Mobility and Inflow of Brains", and the construction of a Croatian professional title with the aim of preserving Croatian language. The debate highlights support for projects such as "Returner, Guest, Senior and Post Doc" and the need to coordinate activities with the competent ministries and with the aim of maintaining such projects or re-establishing similar projects if some are shut down in the meantime. In the follow-up to the session of the Foundation's representatives, she made clarifications regarding the work of the Foundation in response to the question of the representatives, and presented difficulties primarily of administrative nature, which are often a cornerstone of stumbling along the path of better scientific cooperation of Croatian scientists in Croatia and abroad. For example, Croatian scientists who decide not to stay temporarily in Croatia or to return permanently against unfavourable financial and other circumstances face further difficulties related to work permits, permanent stay, and even citizenship, both for their members and their family members, considering that a large number of them have made a marriage to foreign citizens, i.e. citizens. Experience shows that efforts need to be coordinated between universities and the general academic community and the Ministry of Interior and Science with the aim of removing the mentioned difficulties, it is also necessary to consider and adopt the practice of some state administration countries and universities that have an effective model of regulation of these and similar issues in a way to help and encourage the return of scientists. Some of them also have national strategies that, in a systematic and lasting manner, regulate, among other segments, scientific cooperation between the country of origin and the country of emigration. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously concluded, the Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to accept the report on the work of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia for 2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25246	Thank you. Do government representatives want to further explain their opinion? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. They're clubs first. On behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25247	Mr. Vice President, Professor Lucin, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. The National Science Foundation's report is for 2007. What is the purpose of this report? The purpose of the report of such agencies in Parliament is parliamentary oversight. What Parliament has to monitor in January 2009 is what ended, so the report is submitted on what ended a year and a month ago. So, 2007. To the truth, this report, as it stands in it, was written in May 2008, when there was still reason to debate in Parliament and as far as financing concerns possible suggestions, but it did not come to the agenda, as far as it is, for 8 months. What is this reason, for me, is unknown, but I ask those who put points on the agenda in this House? In principle, speaking on behalf of the HNS club, all reports that are read or discussed with a year and more than a year of delay are pointless. So I'm using this opportunity to talk about an institution that is a very unusual plant in the Croatian institutional space, possibly so that we can learn some lessons and conclusions about how it would be good to structure individual institutions, but as regards the possibility of parliamentary supervision with a year and a month late, that's of course pointless. Therefore, this is a platform in the Assembly that if we have, and we have to have reports on the agenda, then those reports must make some sense and be in the function of parliamentary oversight, which means I cannot come with a year and a month late. So, the Report of the National Science Foundation for 2007 begins with a review of activities per month, which is a good example and a good form because it can be clearly seen what has been done from month to month, and the whole activity is not covered up or covered by general sites and general findings, but rather by one type of inventory of activities. In my opinion, the most significant contribution from the National Science Foundation in the period 2007 is, and in general, what it has done so far, the establishment of a new transparent evaluation procedure for scientific projects. That's not what we've had so far. There have been a lot of scandals about this, as you remember about the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and a lot of different completely unexplainable procedures in the evaluation of projects, later complaints, conflicts, conflicts among scientists, everything that has even grown beyond the frameworks of Croatia itself and this foundation's efforts to establish transparent evaluation procedures, so the way the projects that will be financed is certainly quality, important and praiseworthy contributions and is seen from this report how people in the foundation worked on this programme. Other interesting information from 2007 is the foundation programme. Unlike almost anything else we're discussing here, the program can actually show a vision, or not to say so patheticly, a vision can be seen intent, you can see what the foundation is trying to achieve. So the foundation is not in the function of developing everything and everywhere, so it means nothing and nowhere, but it is in function and financing projects in the function of developing certain points or directions that are relevant to us. So, one is a reform of higher education, which is obvious and necessary because the government is now a common known chaos, another is the inflow of brains, so imports and motivation of people outside Croatia, either from the Croatian diaspora, were simply scientists outside, coming and participating in projects in Croatia. And in terms of higher education reform, it focuses on learning outcomes, something that is necessary as an integral part of the Bologna process, I would like to remind you that the first generation has already graduated. At the same time, we don't have a learning outcome at all at the university. The second model is the funding of studies, i.e. different student scholarship models in the higher education system. It is interesting that in this programme, on the other hand, there were 0 kunas in realisation, so nothing was working on models of different funding and scholarships of students and an integrated university or an integrated system of tertiary education, so something that was an integral part of the Bologna model, and also in these four years since the Bologna model, so now the fourth year is in place, we haven't been able to realise with perhaps one exception. The people who spoke, so the colleagues and colleagues who spoke before me also mentioned the various programs that are related to the general project "Sea of Brains". Not to mention briefly. One is the establishment of support, thus speeding up the isolation of young researchers and establishing a research career for young scientists and Croatian and foreign scientists. The second is the guest program. I'm going back to that program because it's a very interesting realisation of the funds from that program. So bringing scientists from other centres to Croatia who spend a certain amount of time in Croatia working on our scientific projects and with our scientific teams. The third programme is "Senior and Returner", so it is clear what it is about, older scientists and on the other hand, diaspora scientists who are possibly still active or in retirement coming back and need to exploit the potential they have. And "Postdoc", i.e. the program of scholarship of post-doctorates, especially the orientation of post-doctorates to permanent learning, i.e. going abroad at certain intervals and additional education. I mention this guest program especially because if you look at the report that is in front of us for 2007 you will see that it is a program that is almost fully implemented. So what's planned from the funds is almost fully realised and has a thought other than another greatest, most favourable relationship between planned and realised. It says if we read this information, it says first of all that there was obviously a great interest for this programme and it says that something that we don't think about at all and because we don't have a systematic concept of science development and higher education then of course it can't be an integral part of the concept that high education and science are potentially our export products, that this is the dimension in which we are potentially interesting and that, if we so naturally, we can work not to say and make money. Let me mention, in the United States, that's the fourth-in-a-kind export product. The Foundation has become a member of the European Foundation for Science or the European Science Foundation. It's certainly something to congratulate on. What's my question, and in the meantime, in the opening statement, we heard it was realised in 2008. What I wanted to ask on behalf of the HNS Club here is how this European social research or European Social Survey is not involved or not realised, although it is mentioned, but it seems to be realised in 2008, which we cannot know because we are not discussing this report today. The report also mentions a kind of plan or projection of what the foundation is going to do in 2008 and of everything that is presented here for us, perhaps in terms of some parliamentary insight, it is most relevant because it is in fact what was done last year and on which we should evaluate and profile policy towards the National Science Foundation in 2009. So there's a top priority in the 2008 plan, which is what people at the foundation call an action plan 3%. Clearly, the action plan is 3%. 3% is 3% of the gross social product, so 3% of the GDP that goes to science. The plan for Croatia to gradually come into the situation for 3% of GDP to be investment in science. I remind you of this place that in a crisis when new President Barack Obama took over his job in the United States one of the strategies to get out of the crisis is to invest in science and education. So, not when there's abundance, so let's go and get that luxury of science and education, but in a crisis as an instrument to get out of the crisis is to invest in science and education. The European average at this point is about 2% of GDP, Scandinavian countries are at 3%. What did we look like? In 2004, we had 1.2%, 2005. 0.9%, in 2006, we had, excuse me, 2006. 0.9% and 2007. 0.87%. So, we went between 2004 and 2007, from 1.2% of GDP investment in science to 0.87% of GDP investment in science exactly the opposite of what the country is going to be in crisis, exactly the opposite of what everyone thinks is necessary, exactly the opposite of what everyone swore pre-election in the knowledge society, the state of knowledge, whatever you want, science and knowledge will be everything. In this situation we are at a downward trend with the foundation plan to try to encourage not in the direction of 1.2 to 0.87, but preferably at 3% in the perspective. It obviously didn't work out because, of course, it's not a question of a science foundation that I wasn't sure I could trust with my ears, so I'm going to ask Professor Lucin to answer the question whether it's true that the National Science Foundation has not received anything since 2006, so the revenues have been of interest. Now there's that money that's left over since last year and that's all. If so, really in science and higher education, I think it's clear that we don't only have politics, but that in this murder of high education and science, we're going to have an even worse time than we originally thought. The national fee for science is described in these terms as a small island of rationality and a vision in the sea, as with which it rules in scientific and high school politics. Therefore, the HNS will support this National Science Report precisely because it hopes that the ministry may learn something from it and others.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25248	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Honorable representative Krešimir Ćosic on behalf of the HDZ club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25249	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable President of the Management Board of the Foundation, Secretary of State. The HDZ club has encouraged and supported the work of the foundation in recent years. That's how it is today, and I'm sure it will be in the future. With the right to do so, we expect the foundation to work even more energetically, even more strongly in the future on such important issues for a society, such as science, higher education, and in particular, I will highlight the technological development that deserves special attention and in this mix of different issues, different issues, science, higher education, technology, technological development, technological competitiveness, technological abilities, and ultimately it is seen through projects, I would say a lot more attention. Certainly, these expectations for the foundation to do even more in the future depend not only on the trust but also on the financial resources available. For those who may not have a good feeling, technological development costs an enormous amount. The funds we're talking about here today are really, I'd say minimal, encouraging, means to point out the importance of this segment in every society. And we hope that in its projects and project selection, and in particular through the demand for cooperation with partner institutions, in particular through the demand for cooperation with economic operators who are sufficiently aware that without such investments there is no long-term competitiveness and sustainability in the market. The National Foundation for Science and Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia is in the conclusion of this report for 2007 and there have been similar reports in previous years promoting excellence and this is undeniable and in any case I would like to stress that this is one of the most important contributions that the foundation with relatively small funds could make in our space in the past period. A strict selection of only the best ones who meet rigorous review standards. Today it is very popular with us, science, society of knowledge, etc., talking perhaps and writing, but without serious reviews, without serious publications in renowned international magazines, I would say perhaps exceptional international conferences, there are no real results. And in any case, again, I stress and point out, it is seen from the selection of the programme, from the partner institutions where these projects are taking place, the foundation has made its significant contribution by insisting on the rigorousity and selection of projects, and therefore I would say it is nothing strange and I would stress what the chairman of the Management Board of Foundations has said is a 20% transit. And that's a good transition. And let us not be surprised if someone thinks excellence can be so easily accomplished in a larger proportion. Keep going. What is also in this conclusion in addition to promoting the excellence of the foundation aims to contribute to the development of the Republic of Croatia. And now that's something that might require a little more discussion. What I mean by this development, whether it is exclusively the development of science and higher education or we can be perhaps a little more ambitious and say next today in these conditions, the economic crisis requires an increasing competitiveness of the economic system of the Republic of Croatia because it alone can achieve exports, and only it can improve our balance of payments. Then it is normal to expect that in the years to come we expect this contribution to the development of the Republic of Croatia to be as much as possible through emerging companies competitiveness, exports, GDP growth, etc. And I remember well, 20 years ago, I might have said that more than once, but I'm going to point out again, when I came to a respected American college 20 years ago... I was impressed by one small fact between a small number of data there was only one... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] is proud to have generated several thousand companies, medium and small enterprises of the technology sector that generated several billion dollars of revenue. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in this respect, Mr. President of the Management Board, I encourage you and I expect that in the Croatian National Foundation for Science and Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia there will be some more information about such successful... companies that have come from your projects and your programmes, because it is then the best measure of quality, long-term work that supports the development of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Further to the report, the foundation has developed a complete instrument for quality evaluation of scientific research in the past year and established a network of evaluators in the country and abroad. And I'm going to do it again and again, it's more than once emphasized, to create this infrastructure, and it's very big, very difficult and challenging work and effort and the foundation has done it well. And I really encourage this system to continue to develop and perfect especially in some areas that must come to the agenda as projects and proposals for the work of the foundation. Here on the other hand is the next item of our agenda, the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency and President Here's the area of energy. It deserves to be recognised as one of the priorities and activities of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development as well as other areas. I'm looking at Mr. Vedran Rozic. We're talking about shipbuilding. It will indeed be a real pleasure to see projects funded by our national partnership foundation. I would also say with Croatian shipyards and with Croatian shipyards that must, as it is said in these most difficult times of crisis, recognize the need that the only way out of the crisis is precisely the one that seems unacceptable to many, which many seem to be unnecessary, as an additional burden, but seeking a way out of the current situation and crisis through knowledge, if there is one in Croatia, then in Croatia, if there is no need to look for it wherever it exists and should be paid properly. That's what we have another category that's so hard to admit and recognize when something needs to be done then someone thinks someone at the university or scientific community has no other job, so they'd just be doing something because it seems important to him and then they say you do it, it's very useful. But every such project requires its resources, requires the ability to recognize and understand that it is a cost that must be recognised and recognised and I would say it is a big problem that we are facing today and may require a lot more attention, it comes out of the context of today's debate. The following is further stated in the report. Since the beginning of its work until the end of 2007, the Management Board of the Foundation has launched 20 programmes under which it grants funds for projects, scholarships, awards. The data shown in the table shall include all projects notified to the foundations from the beginning of 2005 to the end of 2007. During this period, the foundation approved the financing of 124 projects with 27 million kuna. Serious projects, especially technology projects, projects that require expensive laboratory infrastructure are hardly likely to happen with such minimum resources. And I would say, in the given conditions and in the given circumstances, and finally respecting the fact that the foundation only received such proposals, and not some others I may have talked about from the energy sector, renewable sources, shipbuilding, etc., the foundation made serious and responsible decisions and selected what was best on the agenda. The following shall be provided in point 1.4 of the report. A partnership in basic research certainly, I would say, deserves special attention, but I would stress and add a partnership with applied research is something that deserves, I would say, nevertheless, a priority given the situation and circumstances in which the competitiveness of the Croatian economy lies. Encouraging cooperation between universities and research institutions, industry and the private and public sectors are areas that are very important and important. I hope that the foundation will succeed in making efforts and will have efforts and will have partners to strengthen this partnership in the common interest and economies and foundations. The increase in the number of companies dealing with research and development, which is one phenomenon at all, which may be little known, is usually said the medium and small research and development company. Almost impossible. Research and development in medium and small enterprises is extremely expensive, extremely demanding, best looking for real challenges, looking for infrastructure, looking for the best laboratories, the best institutions and really needed and should be found through joint efforts. However, there are such medium and small enterprises where this positive synergy is realised. The action plan still stands at 3% and the European Union Action Plan, the Lisbon Agenda 3%, but certainly not 3% from the state budget, but 3%, one part of it must come from the economy. How serious and how much partnership of the Croatian economy is, you know best about such projects. A few words about programs. It is indisputable and it is evident that there is a high level of fragmentation throughout our science program, and it is seen here because we are in the same space. Project "Gust", reliable numerical calculation of properties and vectors. A purely theoretical, mathematical problem important, but in any case the project and the project proposal went through a strict review and has a partnership with the relevant serious institution and has earned that minimal support you have given it. Similar project, effective resolution of Ljapunov and Sylvester equations and applications. Again a good partner recognized and I'd say the agency reacted correctly. But there's this fragmentation problem, I repeat it here. Processes that determine mass... They may have a scientific level, but the issue remains to concentrate limited financial resources and focus. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This focus with limited financial resources is something that is particularly important and I hope that the foundation in the future will keep an account of it. Finally, I saw one project, given the next debate, surveillance, protection and management of a wide range of electricity systems in the environment of deregulated and liberalised electricity markets. I hope that project has passed a serious and strict review. He's a partner of Croatian Electricity. I'll be glad to see Mr. Galic's progress. In any case, the final and what is to come is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Foundation for Science which should strengthen the position of the Foundation in the future. I hope that happens. And here, the HDZ Club once again supports this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25250	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25251	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen, Professors Lucin,... Here, allow me on behalf of the SDP club to look back at this report that is before us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the declared but unfortunately still unfulfilled goal of turning Croatia into a knowledge society, the debate on the National Foundation and its work is a good cause and a good opportunity to reiterate problems and weaknesses, both society as a whole and the foundation itself, of course if there are. And there's always something. This is the need of a team greater if we take into account that we are in a period of global crisis and global economic collapse that will inevitably, whether we want to or not, affect Croatia as well. What we in the SDP have been stressing for some time is a very simple and inexorable fact. Namely, the solutions that we are looking for today and which we must take will be meaningful and will only be effective provided that they contain an anticipation. So what's going to happen but not in the next two or three years, but what's going to happen in the next ten years. I think it is only so possible to reduce and stop Croatia's absolute and relative lagging in scientific and technological terms. If we look back together for the past ten years, I believe I won't mind what I say next. I speak as a scientist, as someone who knows this system, as a university professor and in good faith. In fact, because of the chronic lack of strategy on the one hand and concrete policies on the other hand in this segment of society, I would say that in Croatia we are digging into ritual debates in which we discover what has long been revealed and we question and question what has long been applied in many areas and we dispute very often what else gives very, very concrete results. And things are as simple as always in life. In all countries and societies in the world, which are issues of the development of a science and technology society, the transfer of knowledge successfully solved these issues rest on two fundamental pillars. The first is the allocation of funding for research and development, and the second is the construction of systems, the construction of networks of institutions, structures that can and must be used most efficiently, most rationally for the improvement of society as a whole. We have heard from Mrs Pusic how much the European Union on average stands out for research, or in general for science. We heard Germany somewhere around two and a half, America, we heard what Obama was doing at these times of recession. I can give another example. For example, the Finnish government intends to increase R & D investment to 4% of GDP in order to curb the recession as early as the 1990s. It's already a well-known recipe. That's what they did in the 1990s. The Finnish Council for Science and Technology adopted a revised Strategy for Science and Technology and Innovation and Audit in early December of last year, predicting an increase in R & D investment to 4% of GDP by 2011 of which around 1.2% will be secured from the public sector. So, when we compare all this together with what Croatia singles out, then every comment is too high. The second important pillar I mentioned is the system and network of institutions as regards, which is therefore in direct connection with what we are talking about today, or with the report on the work of the foundation. In successful societies, the network represents public and private universities and universities, autonomous and developmental research organisations, scientific and technological parks, innovation centres, entrepreneurial incubators, development agencies, foundations and various other forms. In this segment, it is less important how many such institutions are, how many such forms are. But it is of paramount importance that, whether there is any interaction between them and whether the system recognises any causal link between science and development on one side, the economy on the other side and society on the whole on the third side. The National Foundation for Science is part of the infrastructure system which has its basic task in the area of opening up I would say the channels of mutual cooperation within the scientific community, cooperation between communities and the world of capital, raising the overall social awareness of the importance of science for the development of society, encouraging and supporting efforts to strengthen the professional and scientific potential of the community, unlike private foundations of which interest is primarily from the sphere of particular interest of the group or individual, and in public foundations as in our case, they are primarily in the function of promoting the public interest of society. So, in the function of promoting the public interest of society. So the fundamental question for me, i.e. as far as the SDP club is concerned, is whether the foundation and to what extent successfully achieves this role that I was just talking about. And our assessment is that, given the circumstances in society, the foundation, given the relatively small awareness of the need for investment in science, makes a significant contribution and that I agree with my colleague Pusic. But we believe that the foundation has potential and that it has the resources to do even more and that it has to do everything to avoid, and I think it's very important, to avoid a passive neutral development-programme state couple if you want a formalistic approach to science and scientific development issues of society. We believe that the foundation has the resources for a proactive trust policy in its jurisdiction. What does that really mean? concrete support, this means concrete support for the acceleration of innovation processes. This means actively creating a culture of cooperation and interaction. This means intensifying horizontal cooperation, promoting competence at regional level. This means supporting initiatives and projects that include different industries and technologies, supporting new product development projects, profiling the scientific community of Croatia as sites of international scientific cooperation, encouraging cluster development projects in this domain, and so on. By applying these policies, the Foundation would, in our deep conviction, change its passive character of the recipient and monitor of the process that either takes place or does not act as a pro-active promoter. I repeat again I speak of this good faith and purpose. I believe that the foundation has the potential to choose this role, for such a way of working. This proactive position of the foundation means in some way the change of the logical matrix that governs here, which in our mentality is that you don't get me wrong. This also means the need to leave the position of a remote and para-state mechanism that would reportedly function impeccably if the funds were unlimited. But the funds are never unlimited. And where we're looking for them, they're gone, but they're in places where we don't look often, and we don't want to look for them. Examples of the most developed countries prove that even in these countries, sources are not easily available regardless of whether they are private or public foundations. In our opinion, then, what should be the concrete content of such a changed proactive policy? Information on European and other available programmes and competitions towards Foundation entities, counselling and selection of programme units, practical assistance in the search for sources, in the search for partners through numerous networks of transnational scientific cooperation. For example, only one foundation in the federal state... There are over 240 partners in 33 countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Aid in accessing competitions and projects, assistance in copyright protection procedures, administrative financial project management, dissemination and exploitation of project results etc., etc. To be perfectly clear, this in modern and efficient examples of developed countries does not mean that the foundation should become a human and financial institute or agency. All these tasks and activities shall be organised and implemented as project tasks of the Foundation members and shall in some way constitute an additional self-development function of the Members and the Foundations shall open up space to become an active participant and subject to such processes from intermediaries and objects. The logic of all and every once in a situation of limited and inaccessible means, i.e. not available, limited and insufficient resources, results in the situation of anyone and nothing is sufficient. And such a situation is very elegant and in some ways reflects I would say the climate of opportunism and indifference but also the state of the spirit in which all subjects are absolutely self-sufficient. From... software and project constructive polemics and discussions do not exist in conflict of ideas and opinions, non-accepting objective and neutral models of evaluation has led us in some way to a situation in which it is most important to be near fire. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This would call it software development neutrality in our opinion cannot be justified by the lack of strategic documents, because nowhere in the world development has arisen on the relationship of entities, objects, always and in all situations it is an interactive, two-way relationship of factors. If the academic and scientific community knows and knows, if the academic and scientific community can, and can, understand, predict and design key project and policy programmes that society will pull forward, then it must be seen in the activities and programmes of the foundation. What we need, in our opinion, is working and programming inclusion, network of excellence and network of innovation strategies and similar forms that are active and productive and above all focused on transfer. And that's what I'm gonna end up with, and that's what I'm gonna end up with. We in the SDP want to see the foundation even more effectively and programmeally defined and recognizable network of related factors of scientific and social life in the coming period. Therefore, the integration of the economy, the association of society, the interests of society and the scientific community. Because I think only through this process can one be created and directed in favor of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25252	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Agent Iron Flego. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Agent Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25253	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The knowledge society and the knowledge economy are a statement that we can often hear from the mouth and from the Minister of Science and the President of the Croatian Government, which is used by minors on all occasions. But the discrimination between investments in higher education, science, especially in one such trust and the values that that statement brings puts that knowledge society in competition when these very people say that statement in competition about what's called a pearl of the day. The Foundation for Science and Higher Education is one of the pillars for the development of education and science in Croatia. It shows it through its international cooperation, the European, scientific foundation, through the Tempus projects and through support for higher education reform. In 2007, they were higher education projects based on learning outcomes, study funding models that unfortunately did not go well, and an integrated university system of territorial education. Why is it crucial that this was done in 2007. Because that was the same issue in the European Union in 2006, 2007 and something earlier. If you follow... project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These projects are key to development, education in the Republic of Croatia, learning outcomes as you know are actually knowledge, skills, which a certain person, student or student must possess after completing his education or part of education. Learning outcomes also work in vocational education, in interdisciplinary education and in the European Union, they are the key tools for you along with the Bologna process, with the addition of diplomas, that when a person completes his education that his knowledge can be read lightly, his diploma can be easily read and that the person who completed his studies in German is equally easily given a job in Great Britain or eventually continues to study there. Since 2006, since the European Commission has launched one policy, funding models have actually become the main one, one of the main topics of debate in higher education, especially through the prism of seeing whether tuition is for example. You know, if it's an instrument that's going to force under quotes students to finish faster, to discipline them, what kind of models exist. Europe has several models of education funding seen through what the state gives in all education, viewed through student participation, but also through the way the student studies. Is he a regular student, is he a irregular student, is he an outstanding student? These are two different categories in Europe. Is anyone studying remotely, is there anyone in the e-Student system? And while on the one hand we have a foundation that followed those key elements in the debate held in Europe that same year, we have, on the other hand, a lag behind or a complete silence of key institutions that should be monitored, which are agencies, that is the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. In some projects, the foundation went a few steps forward without the ministry moving from a dead end. That's visible to you in the funding model. In discussions about the scholarships held in Croatia. As SDP, we believe that in a country that has such a small number of students, and we want our knowledge to be an export project, we cannot charge for expensive education in this country. And Croatia now suffers from the fact that almost every university, this paraphrase, can have its own model. In fact, at one university you have a college that calculates scholarships year by year, that a student who enters first year as a regular with the support of the ministry the second one can be paid and we have a raise in tuition. We in Europe have one of the fastest increases in the percentages of the amount of tuition. And we also have a galloping increase in the number of students who pay that tuition. Learning outcomes. It is still minor in 2009, not in 2007, but in 2009 at the level of pure theory and ignorance in the academic community. Many people simply don't understand what the outcomes of learning are, and yet on the other hand we have universities that have already gone far in defining outcomes, measurement and so on. I had this opportunity to follow in 2006 and 2007 the definition of learning outcomes and the reform of study programmes based on learning outcomes in Slovenia. I watched how their entrepreneurs, the economic sector along with the academic community and students, those before graduation of college and three generations that have completed their studies and hired, are simply seen as the problems of these young people and how education can be adapted to the labour market. Learning outcomes are also a weapon that can prevent us from getting a fair investment in education in exchange for programmes that correspond to large companies like we had in Eastern Europe where large companies gave universities in some Ukraine large amounts of money in exchange for them to adapt their programme fully to their needs. The bologna process, which is largely related to learning outcomes in our country after the first completed cycle and entry in the fourth year, somewhere and over the year has not been properly analysed. So there's mistakes, and there's mistakes. There are mistakes in the European Union as well. They have not been analysed and the corrections of these mistakes have not been made and yet one rule remains, one sentence is valid at the university that many universities have spent the Bologna in a feudal way. So, everyone's been doing the reform the way they think they should. The ministry made a terrible mistake when it actually dropped the reins in the reform, and it was there to monitor it, to advise, and of course to finance it. Today, after the first cycle, what can we see? That the labour market hasn't been involved since the beginning. I will only go back, the first survey was conducted in 2007 with entrepreneurs in Croatia. It was not reported by a huge number of companies in general that they wanted to complete the poll on the Bologna process, and that small number that appeared over sixty and something after saying that they didn't understand the Bologna process at all, that they couldn't recognise the title of first grader and that they didn't know what these students would do as high school students. But still, it means a year and a little later that hasn't changed, which is the duty of the Ministry of Science. Now after the first cycle, we got a chance to reevaluate the workload of students and again some colleges made excellent, the vast majority did not. The quality assurance system should be fully at the level of the course of the study subject and the institution itself and some colleges apply it again fully, some do not apply at all. Unfortunately, the Croatian education system is one part hostage to its rigidity, inflexibility and immodality. Science in Croatia is a huge amount of small scientific projects that are financed with about 35,000 kuna average. Compare only with small projects in the European Union from, say, 7. ... a programme of several hundred thousand euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will finish with only one statistic, which you can find on the European Union's website on the state of education across Europe and tomorrow Croatia becomes a member of the European Union, tomorrow we become a member, Croatia would be part of the European space of higher education and the single European labour market, Croatia was the holder of some of the worst records, and first of all, we have one of the most expensive educations. The average tuition in Croatia is now around 1000 euros, and this is the ranking of the 3 most expensive countries in Europe, the average tuition. Also, our study continues for a long time. So he's expensive, but inefficient and lasts one of the longest in Europe because people just don't end him in time. We have the highest percentage of school dropouts from the education system, between 60 and 70% of students never finish their studies. We have a galloping increase in tuition and the number of students who pay. It's not a social state. And in the end, we have the slow growth of students. And the final statistics show you, that tomorrow we become a member of the European Union would be the only Member State that doesn't have a single university in the 500 list, not even 1000 of Europe's top universities, and that Europe has a total of 4000 universities. So unless the foundation gets more funding and the Ministry of Science starts monitoring the work of the foundation, the price will be paid by the current generation of students when it comes to the European labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25254	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25255	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear fellow professors. As far as the report itself is concerned, I would say, in that technical and substantive sense, it was actually done in one correct, one reviewed way. We have received all relevant data and united but with all the necessary contributions that can really be read up to the details of what the foundation has done in the past period, what projects it has funded and who our fellow scientists or institutions have participated in these projects. Of these seven programmes, support for reform of higher education, inflows of brains, education of PhDs, international programmes, etc. I consider the most important partnership in basic research right now. In fact, this programme is set with a fundamental objective and purpose to ensure economic development, fostering employment, more specifically to link our science and our industry, or entrepreneurship, at this stage. It is also good that it is precisely the data from the total project resources, that exactly 70% of the funds are committed to this type of project, so projects that should firstly play that application role, means the application of knowledge in addressing concrete problems in industry, in the economy or in entrepreneurship. I would see it as little as the Czech and the engineer, so I think that these programmes related to the partnership on basic research should continue to develop, continue to develop these models of participation of individual subjects therefore interested in scientific research and in working together with scientific institutions, with scientists to address the specific problems they face. What is the economic role of such programs? I'd say today in this globalized economy, that intellectual capital is the cornerstone of competitiveness. Therefore, this intellectual means that knowledge and that ability of the expert that is embedded in the products should also bring profit. The classical theory of comparative advantages has always spoken in a way that the location of profits, the location of earnings is where cheap labour is, where raw materials are available. However, we think that at this very time and Internetisation and digital technologies and communication and technological achievements, that this classical theory no longer has its place and that it is precisely the location and profits and profits where intellectual capital is located. I would just say in this area that I know a little bit more about, which is the area of food, so when imports and exports of food products are compared to the biggest profit or best balance we have in high-end food industry products, so not in raw materials but in high-end, so where it is installed and I would say that intellectual capital means knowledge, ability, expertise. And it is certain that these projects, which are funded by the foundation, contribute greatly to this. We have therefore defined ourselves for the knowledge society, for the development of a knowledge-based economy, and I believe that this is also the best answer to all that is happening globally. And on this occasion, I would quote from the book "Future of Capitalism" by El Sitarov, who wrote it. He says, "In a globalised world when everything falls out of the equation of competitiveness, knowledge and the ability of the organisation remain the only comparative advantage of one country and one national economy. Those in the globalised world of economic governance will have to be ready to educate, organise and mobilise intellectual power.". For example, if companies such as Hewit Packard are taken, such as Microsoft, then intellectual work right now accounts for 80 to 90%. When you take a ranking of the richest people in the world they just acquired that position by competing in the field of intellectual capital. It should also be said that we on the other hand do not need quasi elitism in science, so we cannot have only knowledge as an elite, but rather knowledge that is ready to be applied and made available to both the economy and society. So it's just knowledge in the function of the economy, not knowledge just for itself. I think the foundation is playing an important role in directing that one energy of these one guidelines, of the objectives. Therefore, in the direction of this knowledge which would be in the function of practice, in the function of the development of society, in the development of the economy. At the first congress of scientists, Croatian scientists from country and abroad, I think I well remembered the data it was said in the United States, that these projects that are the cooperation of economies and sciences make up about 80%, that in the European Union they do something more than 20% and in the Republic of Croatia only 5%. I think it's another additional motivation that we should now pursue these projects that link science and industry. I also think that these programmes that work on the return of our scientists are people from abroad because they are still people who come from countries where it is highly developed and technology etc., so they bring in one complete knowledge, so their scientific institutions and what we get from the economy. It has often been an objection to small cooperation of the economy industry with scientific institutions. There was also an objection on the part of scientists, so they decided once to get out of these laboratories, out of these offices, and to go specifically into the economy, but there was also an objection to industry that little interest in participating in scientific projects. Here I am talking about the period of transition where, in a large number of businesses, the development has just been extinguished, so that added value that we are talking about and where there was no need for further research and work on new products, education of people etc. But I think the situation is changing dangerously. It is precisely a question of market liberalisation, it is a question of competitiveness of going out to that market where clearly every more serious entrepreneur, every more serious firm, the company is clear that it cannot think about development or profit or competitiveness unless there are above all well-educated experts and also if there is no good research element. I think this situation is changing for the better, and that's certainly to say hello. I will only remind myself of the level of one other Ministry of Agriculture through the Agriculture Research Council has gone with the emphasis of these very applied projects that, I would say, have contributed greatly to structural reforms in agriculture, meaning that one step forward. Because if we're talking about this intense agriculture that's particularly expensive at the beginning because it's big investments. So knowledge, waist and one added value are actually key and I think that's where the step is made. It is also important for these results to be published, to be available to the entire scientific public, and also to those who will benefit specifically from such knowledge. What you would certainly commend or point out is how these projects are evaluated. I mean, this is a really big thing that we have during the evaluation of recommendations on avoiding conflicts of interest. I've studied them well. I think it's something that everyone in this business should apply, and that's what the projects are all about. So, from local self-government to the Ministry of Science, and also from all other ministries involved in this business. Now that I've mentioned this local self-government and other ministries, the following should be said. We in the Republic of Croatia must have one database where all projects financed from local self-government, from the state, from various institutions, etc. would be united. Because unfortunately, there have been some problems in history in this plan where some have run for several institutions under slightly changed titles and have been participated, therefore, in means which should not have been clearly allowed. So make a tracking net, but also have one place systemized. I think that's exactly what the foundation could do because it's kind of neutral, so it's not a direct state, it's a foundation that can then work with local self-government, with ministries, it means uniting projects, have insight and not allow therefore, and even these abuses that were, that some apply means more places under just a little bit of changed titles. And here, in the end, I would certainly like to commend this report and I think that the foundation very much justifies its existence in our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25256	Thank you. In 17.24 timed out to report a ten-minute hearing. Mr. Representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25257	Mr. President, dear Professor Lucin, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The report ahead of us can be considered a very good report because it shows very realistic situations and trends. And I've personally met the work of the foundation, and I think it can get a really good grade. I would still like to look back on some aspects that may be of a developmental nature. Of course, when we consider a report that was actually current a year ago, we have to have another discourse than it is when the report is concentrated. Of course, it's not our friends from the trust fund, it's us who put it on the agenda so late. These discussions of ours show that we may actually have unreal expectations from the foundation. It was mentioned that the foundation should be an engine for science development and higher education. You know, with 20 million kunas, it can't be. You can't be the engine of science development and higher education if you have 20 million kunas available with a trend falling very likely, given the state of income. Well, that's where we need our expectations or our real expectations, or we need to change them by investing more in this project. That's the first thing. The other thing is a note that the foundation can't replace the Ministry of Science. Therefore, some of the expectations that we have highlighted regarding the development of the system of science, higher education is simply too much for the institution of what kind of foundation is, and we also need to be realistic. However, what would be good is to continue some trends, but also to set some goals that would be long-term. What I am particularly pleased with from this report and insight into the work of the foundation is that the projects chosen are indeed chosen by the foundation of an artis procedure. No one can say that there have been any conflicts of interest, no one can say that there has been privatized funds at their disposal and what is particularly important to me, it has been shown that they are the expectations at least that I pointed out during the last or the previous report, it is to respect the specificities of social sciences, socially humanistic, that they have been accepted and that projects have been evaluated, and from the awareness that not all the criteria of natural and technical sciences are applicable to social sciences. Now that we're looking at what this trust of ours should be doing, of course, in the first place, I think we need to increase the funds. Unlike counterpart Pusic, who was deeply concerned that there was no more investment from the state budget or that almost practically there was no more, it also bothers me very much. But I may be even more bothered by the fact that we have failed to motivate private resources and this shows that perhaps this one interaction and the expectation that the foundation will help us, the integration of science, higher education and labour, labour markets, economies that are still far from us. So, I think that there's a foundation, but also a state, the government should do a lot of work to show where the attractiveness of this kind of project is for the economy and to attract the economy into such a project. Secondly, I think the foundation should help, what other colleagues have also said, better or better quality implementation of the Bologna process in Croatia. We are among countries that have made a very advanced start in the Bologna process in some areas. But unfortunately, we all know who we are insiders that some postulates of Bologna have been formally introduced, and that we haven't unfortunately been able to change things. It is, of course, the fault of the academic community in the first order, but also in the structures of the state. One of the most important failures or obstructive elements of the Bologna Process is that we may not have recognized to what extent the Bologna Process is the response of Europe to American trends and American successful integration of science and higher education into the labour market, we tried to do the same, but obviously not only in Croatia. This is also visible in some other, even developed European countries. The educational system of Bologna and the labour market do not correspond. We have a problem with what we call them for miles, so our first-graders don't have a place on the market. And there is something that needs to be done, so it is probably necessary to redesign the system and help the economy both by the state and by the Academic Community to achieve this compatibility between the education system and the economy, in the first order of the one carrying the economy and bringing new values. Furthermore, in the context of the application of the Bologna process, I think it should be observed, however, that by leaving one historic-successful Humbolt education system that has given Europe and human civilization so much good, we do not abandon all the values that existed in this, and that we do not turn our study into a colloquium alone, but to build a system that is indeed a study, to remain a study, not just a colloquium. If we want the right intellectual elite from the university in a good way, then I think we need to take this seriously. In terms of objectives, other than these two long-term objectives, therefore the compatibility of the economy in relation to the economy, further implementation of the Bologna process with respect to European specificities, including our some Croatians, so that we do not get one system that looks like America, but actually does not function as well as there. I think Croatia has another chance to take advantage of it. Namely, education of course has its own autochton function, it is in the function of science, education. Furthermore, it has a role to do with the economy and the development of our economy, but I also think that Croatia is able to turn its education into an export category. There is a wider region in which Croatia can play a very important role on the educational plan. There are countries that are also not big that Croatia is not a big country that managed to impose their education system on some countries and Croatia, and where even with a certain subsidy system, there is a wider value and a new mind is gained, a new momentum. They become the center of education and more than it is for their own, for the needs of their own country. We profit from this in the first place, because I say first we impose or manage to impose our strategic position beyond Croatia. But that's why we get extra impulses and brains that strengthen our education and overall system. Here, no longer late enough. I would like the foundation to continue its work, to achieve these short-term but also these long-term goals that President Shakespeare is thinking about as soon as he smiles like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25258	I'm smiling at the note that it's already too late. Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25259	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Professor Lucin. Well, I'm glad this report is following trends and situations in the world, and I'm sorry that the bar didn't come for 2007, 2008. I hope that in the future it will be so, that at least it will come before the establishment of the budget of the resolution ministry because it should be more monitored by the work and direction of the foundation if it does not quite finance them, and that is what the introduction was about. I attended the Parliament when you Professor Lucin were on the thematic committee and presented what Croatia should look like a knowledge society. I was impressed by this lecture, since you have apostrophe of one thing that says that the top 10 interests in 2018 will not be at all top 10 interests in 2008. But not only that. Then you drew a graph that says that Croatia should look like a knowledge society if we want to have self-sustainable development. Self-sustainable development means that we do not spend more today than we earn, and today the situation in Croatia is such that 14 billion euros in incomes are spent by citizens, and 4 billion of these incomes are owed through banks. 10 billion income, means euros in income received from income, and 4 billion euros are owed. The 2025 direction should raise the level of the highly educated population from 15 to 45%, three times. It's also a worrying number of science doctors who are now at 0.3, 0.4% and should be up to 2025 if we want self-sustainable development should be at 2%. Now, in order to establish this self-sustainable development, it is obvious that root changes are needed in the education system, which Europe did in 2000 when it organised the Lisbon European Conference in the third month of 23rd and 24th, i.e. The European Council, where it concluded that it wanted to be the most competitive economy in the world and offered a framework for the Bologna process. Two years later, and what's a lot of talk about here, and it's about... means the technological development of science and innovation Europe apostropheed at the Barcelona Conference where it said: “3% of budget spending, i.e. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] GDP, actually not budget spending, but GDP should be invested in... So in research and development by 2010. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] Another conclusion is that if industry wants to be competitive, if it wants to be advanced, it needs 2/3 of its investment to focus exactly in the direction of research and development in order to become competitive, and this as a guess also has an investment in human capital. And now I'm going to, I'm going to pull out some data to tell you that Croatia stands by means of investment in human capital, so-called Human capital index. In competition with 12 countries, Slovenia, Turkey, Lithuania, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Latvia, Romania, Hungary, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Poland and Croatia, we are in a convincing 12th place. Furthermore, the GCI index is an index that measures the willingness of institutions, policies and factors affecting sustainable development. It means to ensure economic prosperity and not in the long run, but in the medium term. It's a very important index in science and technology. Croatia is 57th in the world according to the index. So we're far from being competitive. Now, what did Ireland do? You don't need to invent hot water. 17 billion euros since '73. until 2004 Ireland has almost a third invested in human capital. Why does it matter when we come to that example later? So, especially in the education and training of personnel. This encouraged the development of high-tech education routes, and these routes were carried, so the new high-tech routes carried 20% of all newly enrolled students. Of course, the way from the study direction to concrete innovation is very large and long-term, but they have been paid off. What does foreign capital bring when it comes to Croatia? Unfortunately, the most inventive companies demonstrate inventivity in their home countries. For example, you have interesting information that in companies where the share of foreign capital is greater than 50% in Croatia, only 48% of companies are innovative. And those companies that are mostly owned by our people because they need more to fight against competition on the foreign market. It's an innovative 80 percent of the company. More specifically, what happened in Croatia that foreign capital reduced the chances of research and development, and therefore because of our educational structure as well as because of conditions of business that are not good in Croatia, but I will talk about it, I will talk about it in the CNB report, Croatia is uninteresting for high tech investment. Now, what's very important in this process to increase human capital is to know the following information. I don't know if anyone in this country is aware of that. Children choose the area of future occupation around the age of 14. So at age 14, they focus on where they will go in life, what they want to do, and what they want to do. Therefore, it is necessary to definitely not only raise the system of higher education, but to monitor the complete system of primary and secondary education because, under 1, children are getting smaller, under 2 teacher collapses, there is a negative selection, only some want to do low-paid work. Under 3, the quality of teaching, teachers and schools is also a problem that can be led by broader discussion, the interests of children in Croatia and economic development. And what's particularly important in the end if we want the biggest investment in human capital is the carelessness of talented students. We in Croatia do not have an organization to care for talented students and that is what affects us and where we definitely cannot be competitive. And what we do, what the government does, what it does, what the Resort Ministry does. I would prefer to follow good practice, meaning national foundations and best world trends, but what we do is invest in buildings while former military sales are being sold. This is a necessary condition for ensuring quality of education, or higher education, but this is not a sufficient condition. 429m euros in credit debt has been invested in the development of the campus infrastructure of Croatian universities, and with the fact that a very negligible number of money, i.e. our Croatian kunas, has gone towards improving the quality of teachers' salaries, workers in the scientific sector who need to provide and motivate students for future work. What is really important is that this is not without a strategic development plan, without one systematic approach that must unite both primary school, high school and higher school systems. And he is particularly concerned that universities are not legally responsible for implementing national policy and no one outside the university is legally responsible for their business. I welcome examples of some good universities as the University of Rijeka. It wouldn't be bad if some other universities followed those trends. However, the fact is that this should be regulated legally. What my colleague Mondekar mentioned is definitely a problem for Croatia in the future. If we want a competitive society, we have to open the door like this to all those who want to finish college, let them do it because Croatia has no other chance but in knowledge. We are not competitive, we are not big to be autistic and we can be simple and have the only chance in higher education and knowledge, and even on the regional principle of what Professor Josipovic was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25260	Thank you. Final review, proposer's representative, board president, Dr. Pero Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25261	Thank you, Mr. President, Mrs. Representatives and MPs. I feel that I am obliged to give you a few answers, though that debate was very broad so that it might probably take a very long time, but I will try only in short lines to answer some questions or some topics that have opened up. First of all, I'd like to thank you for your support. Our support is extremely important, not just for what we do, but because pushing excellence is difficult. And because we have to deal with our decisions and with everyone we reject because they're all mad at us and that's something that we have to live, listen and watch every day, and that's why we're developing such procedures to try to do what we do, which is primarily the evaluation of projects, applications that appear on our programs, to try to make them as objective and as impartial as possible. And of course, we hope and believe that the greatest part of what we have evaluated has been implemented according to the principles of good European practice. We are also trying to be very proactive, but I would say that in this proactiveity we are trying to maintain a balance between our desire for a proactive policy, our ability by our institutions and scientists to absorb these standards that we have imposed and the resources that we have at our disposal. So, we'd like to be like the Irish Foundation, and the Irish Foundation was founded at exactly the same time as ours, probably with the same idea in the background, where the Irish Foundation, unlike ours, received a billion dollars, slightly more than billions of dollars of funds to run a proactive policy only in two areas of biotechnology and ICT, i.e. information and communication technologies. Only one of the cartoons from the work of the Irish Foundation, they moved the entire British Telecom research team to Dublin about 3 years ago, but they had the means to do so, and it's a proactive policy and we'd be happy to do so. What was evident from all these discussions was that technological developments cost money. That is true and Croatia must be defined for it. We also believe that this is our strategic plan for technological development to be based primarily on people and that Croatia must invest in people, and therefore we have just prepared grant installation programmes, therefore instituting support and founding aid where we have calculated that an independent researcher costs about one million to a half million kuna and so much should be invested by each researcher, and research team 2 to 3 million kuna, so only investment for formation. I think that if we want to have more investment in research and development and greater involvement of the private sector and businesses in research, then we simply need to create people who can absorb it. We believe that Croatia does not have enough people, especially there are not enough people who are competent and who are ready to turn to that entrepreneurial part of the research and that such people should be created and that this can be done exclusively through investment in people, through established and founding support and that money should simply be found. Our mission is to essentially select the best, because the least chance we'll make is if, with this large group of young researchers, we read the ones that are the best and most pro-pulsory. Of course, we don't realize what we're planning. We do not allocate money and distribute it as much as we have, but distribute it as it meets our standards. That's why you saw, most of our programs as we planned them were not realised, because we estimated that we did not get enough projects to satisfy that quality and of course that your support for this kind of policy is very important to us, because we have to deal with it every day in our daily work. I think that through investment, therefore, it is the foundation's position that investment in people can stop the decline of investment in research, in the development that has been going on over the past years, although in the past year again in last year, a trend of slow recovery occurs. It can be stopped, our belief is through intense public investment, so through public funds, it is precisely to create these people who will then turn and start and attract private sector investment, from business, from entrepreneurship. We believe that with one policy, and it is approximately and somehow drawn in the action plan 3% that, through an increase in public investment, approximately 1.2% from public funds, of course through smart investment and focused investment in people, there can be a sufficient number of people who will attract the other part of the funds and then fill in from 1.2 to 2 and continue what the trend is. So, I don't think it's happened anywhere that research sectors, that investment in research and development happened on its own and on its own, but it happened exclusively through intense public investment that created people who could do it further. There has been a lot of talk and debate on higher education reform. We have invested relatively modest means, above all to create knowledge, to create expertise in higher education reform. Such a program was, for example, both the outcome and the learning. This was estimated to be a hot topic back then in 2007, we created a program and here we finally have the results of this programme, because simply our people at universities and our higher education institutions were never trained for this concept and they did not master that concept, and we felt that it was necessary to create a sufficient number of people who understood this concept and who would learn and help others. We have achieved this through investing in several projects, those who wanted to do so and this very weekend ends one of these projects, with a publication where there are fairly clear and beautiful instructions how to construct learning outcomes and how to start mastering this concept. It is our assessment that it will at least take us two to three more years for our teachers at universities to master this concept and then adapt programmes according to this concept, and then we can, of course, open a discussion of the inclusion of the economy, programmes for the needs of the economy, etc. We believe that it is our job to recognize it and invest in those individuals who want it, and that is why we are creating programmes, and therefore we do not accept any initiatives, but only those who meet our standards, and that is why your support is very important to us, because once again, it is not easy and we thank you for your support and we will try to push the same principle and the same concept into next year. We think that our scientists, our institutions need not differ at all from Europeans and that it is our job to encourage this exclusively with your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25262	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25263	We are going to vote on the Annual Report of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia. The institution is the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting in line with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which reads: "The Annual Report of the National Report on Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia is accepted." Please, who is for this proposal to accept the Annual Report? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. This report was adopted unanimously with 118 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25264	In the early hours of the evening, only one point 2 would be absorbed. - 2. Report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2007 - the achievement of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2007. – applicant for the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency The applicant is the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, which submitted this report on the basis of Article 25. Law on energy regulation. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Economic and Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. The representative of the motion president of the Governing Council, Mr Tomo Galic, will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25265	Thank you. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I am honored to welcome you first and foremost in front of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency and to present in the shortest lines the main activities of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency in 2007, which are detailed in the HERA annual report. In 2007, the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Regulatory Act was adopted, establishing a new organisational and legal framework for the work and operation of HERA and providing conditions for the development of HERA into an independent and professional agency. In accordance with the law, a new Statute of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency as well as all the general acts was adopted, and a new organisation of the work of HERA was implemented at the end of 2007, and all employees concluded new working contracts with the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. On the basis of a public tender held in December 2007, four sector directors were appointed at a time of four years, and the number of workers was increased by 3 and a total of 37 workers were employed in HERA at the end of 2007. HERA only adopted the following tariff systems, the tariff system for the distribution of natural gas, the tariff system for natural gas supply, as well as the amendments to these two tariff systems, the tariff system for energy activity and production services, the distribution and supply of heat energy, the consolidated text and the tariff system for the transport of oil pipeline, as well as the decision on the amount of tariffs for the transport of oil by pipeline. During 2007, significant co-operation was achieved with the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship as a proponent and legislator in the energy sector. During 2007, HERA gave a total of 34 expert opinions on the energy sector regulation and 66 opinions by the ministry on energy subjects' proposals for changes in the amount of tariff items. HERA collaborated with the ministry on the protection of energy consumers, particularly through the Consumer Protection Council of the said ministry, whose work included a representative of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. At the end of 2007, in cooperation with HERA, the Ministry adopted a new Regulation on permits to carry out energy activities that simplified and uniform the authorisation procedure for carrying out energy activities, simplified the documentation to be applied to the requirements and prescribed procedures for extending the authorisation and transferring the authorisation and the termination of the authorisation to carry out energy activities. HERA issued a total of 67 licences during 2007 and adopted one solution on the termination of the authorisation and at the request of the energy operator. There wasn't a single solution to HERA's case. On 31.12.2007, a total of 349 permits for carrying out energy activities were entered in the summary register of authorisations introduced by HERA. The list of permits and energy operators by energy activities has been published on HERA's website. During 2007. The Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry have adopted a package of sub-legislative regulations in the area of renewable energy sources of cogeneration and, under these rules, HERA has issued two solutions to obtain the status of a privileged electricity producer and one previous solution to obtaining the status of a privileged electricity producer. During 2007, 163 cases concerning customer complaints were received in HERA. The maximum number of items received is from the field of electricity and with 71%, followed by an area of heat energy of 23%, and ultimately a natural gas area with a share of 6%. In 2007, 35 meetings of the HERA Governing Council were held to discuss a total of 213 agenda points. The Governing Council also adopted a Regulation amending the Rules on the establishment and operation of the Council at the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency and extending the number of members of the Consumer Protection Council. During 2007, three meetings of the Board on Regulatory Affairs and two meetings of the Consumer Protection Council were held. In 2007, the Gas Market Act was adopted which defined the status of a privileged buyer from 1 August 2007 to acquire a buyer that does not belong to the household category and, as of 1 August 2008, the status of a privileged buyer is acquired by all households. In the light of the provisions of the Electricity Market Act of 1 July 2007, all customers, other than household customers, have acquired privileged status and, as of 1 July 2008, the status of a privileged buyer is also acquired by all households. Based on data on the sale of electricity in 2007 the status of the advantage could be achieved by customers who have 212 thousand measured places and account for about 59% of electricity consumption in the Republic of Croatia. According to data obtained by the Croatian energy market operator during 2007 fourteen companies registered to carry out energy activities in the Republic of Croatia have concluded with our operator agreements that enable them to operate on the electricity market. Twelve agreements have been concluded for the activity of trade and three agreements have been concluded for the supply activity. The supply of tariff customers under the Law on Market and Electricity is carried out by HEP distribution system operator and the remaining two companies along with those traders became participants in the electricity market. According to data obtained from our operator during 2007 in the Republic of Croatia, 19 customers used the status of a privileged buyer. Their total electricity consumption in 2007 was 912 thousand megawatts, or about 6% of total consumption in the Republic of Croatia. The basic observation by the state of the electricity market in the Republic of Croatia is the fact that there are only two companies that can supply electricity to privileged customers, one of which has practically not been activated since it has not concluded any supply contracts with a privileged buyer. The reason is still in HEP's favourable supply of electricity compared to electricity prices in the region. HERA had a full range of activities on the international agenda during 2007 and continued its cooperation with the regulatory authorities of European countries and still the United States. In addition, it has also participated in the work of international regulatory associations such as the European Association of Regulators for Electricity and Gas, the Council of European Energy Regulators, the Mediterranean Association of Regulators for Electricity and Gas, the Association of Regional Energy Regulators, as part of which has contributed to the development of studies, reports and recommendations. In order to implement the obligations of the Energy Community Treaty, the Agency took part in the work of the meetings of the Athens and Maribor Forum as well as the meetings of the Regulatory Committee of the Energy Community. HERA representatives participated in the work of the negotiating teams for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to Chapter 15 - Energy, Chapter 21 - Trans-European networks and Chapter 28 - Consumer protection as part of an analysis of the compliance of national laws and regulations with the acquis of the European Union. The financial report of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2007 was drawn up in accordance with the regulations on the accounting of non-profit organisations and the Regulation on accounting and the accounting plan of non-profit organisations. According to a report by the authorised auditor, the HERA’s financial report shows the real and objective financial situation on 31 December 2007 as well as the results of its business. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, allow me, at the end of the shortest line, to present the main data and state of the HERA as it is today. A total of 47 workers were employed today in HERA, of which 8 doctors and masters of science and 28 workers with high professional training. HERA has its own business space since last year and is technically fully equipped for its own operation. HERA has, over the past years, since its establishment until the end of 2008, adopted all the tariff systems as well as a series of sublegal regulations which have been placed in its jurisdiction by energy laws. A positive assessment of HERA was given by the European Commission expert mission in the Republic of Croatia in October 2008. The representative of the European Commission expressed satisfaction with the mission and assessed that HERA was highly independent and in a professional and organisational sense well-trained regulatory body of key importance in the energy sector of the Republic of Croatia. The European Commission's representative also made a strong recommendation that HERA, in addition to the support in the design of tariff systems, also assume full powers in setting prices for the implementation of regulated energy activities. I find it important to point out that HERA is human, technical and organisationally ready and able to take on itself and the most responsible tasks, as well as the adoption of prices for the implementation of regulated energy activities. Thank you for your attention. I'm at my disposal for questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25266	Thank you. Government representatives? They have no intention of orally explaining their written opinion. Economic, Development and Reconstruction Committees? I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives Mr. Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25267	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable President of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, Mr. Secretary of State. Here, allow a brief review on behalf of the HDZ Club on the report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2007. I'd say it's very short and summed up next. It is a quality, complete and comprehensive report by all segments for which the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is responsible for electricity, gas, heat, oil. A whole series of different responsibilities that are very heterogeneous, demanding, complex in nature. In each respect, one is a challenging, difficult and important task that has been carried out by the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency in recent years, with which organisational adjustments to its people, its development and training are increasingly high quality and quality to the satisfaction of all Croatian citizens. It's a first and important finding. The report itself shows how demanding it is and how complex the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is. The issue of permits to carry out energy activities, the issue of a solution to obtaining the status of privileged electricity producers, those who want alternative energy sources, wind and other sources of alternative, renewable sources to strengthen the energy sector of the Republic of Croatia. Bringing regulations from the Agency's jurisdiction, giving an opinion, giving consent, protecting consumers, complaints from customers, complaints from customers, performances and other submissions of customers, statistics on all those items from all those areas you spoke about, the area of electricity, the area of natural gas, the area of heat energy. Given the recent or recent crisis, in any case the number of complaints, the number of items that will be on the agenda not only for individuals but also for economies in this year will be very large and demanding work for which the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency must respond. The Agency's cooperation with other institutions. International activities of the Agency are also important and noticeable and are synchronised and consistent with all other activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the process of approaching full membership in the European Union. A whole series of chapters that are directly or indirectly related to the energy sector in any case are equally demanding tasks. The implementation of the Athens Memorandum, cooperation with other European agencies, USD, etc., also makes this international responsibility and the task of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency challenging and demanding. In this regard, in order to respond to all these requirements, the Agency has been duly structured to provide appropriate advice on the various issues mainly covered by experts from different areas for which the Agency is competent. The development of the public service market in the energy sector also deserves special attention and is dedicated to this report a significant part of this document. The rules of action of the electricity market, the rules on the balance of the electricity system are very important in order to guarantee the stability of the Croatian electricity system in order to guarantee the stability of the frequency, in order to ensure a certain permeability of power through the transmission network of the Croatian electricity system in all directions and its infrastructure and investment and control of that system, above all, the transmission system operator. The Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is doing quality work. The methodology for providing electricity balancing services in the electricity system, we said something about it, is the same place you gave the attention you needed. The rules on the assignment and use of cross-border transmission power, the prevention of suppression, are indeed one dynamic process that is changing from day to day and energy flows today, at this time, on Croatian borders, are in quite different directions compared to those we expected. Preventing suppression and ensuring permissive power is a very important task in order to keep electricity transport going smoothly. I only speak here now in this segment of electricity within the single European market. The opening of the electricity market, the supervision of the separation of energy activities and the monitoring of visibility, objectivity, impartiality, certainly this process of separation of energy activities is a very important requirement of the European Commission to separate regulated activities from market activities. This part of the work was carried out and supervised by the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency and it was one of the requirements and criteria that had to be met in part of the relevant chapters negotiated by the Republic of Croatia on full membership in the European Union. The opening and restructuring of the electricity sector, monitoring of the rules on the management and distribution of capacities, the merger of water, the transit of electricity, etc., is part of the business only in this sector. Very similar jobs are in the area of gas, oil, oil derivatives, thermal energy. Renewable sources of energy and cogeneration, all of this illustrates that the relatively small number of people it drives today are in the mood right now can really be satisfied with the quality and responsible performance of this part of the job. The development of our transmission network, the development of the distribution network, the monitoring of the power balance. In any case, it is an important part of statistics and reports that in some ways points to and warns about what priorities must be in investing in our energy sector. In the last ten years, Croatia has managed to build its transmission network in quality thanks to the fact that there are companies in Croatia that do so in quality, competitive terms. But not only in Croatia, but throughout the world, Sweden, Norway, Finland, but throughout the region. Albania, Montenegro, Serbia, Macedonia, Bulgaria, etc. It would be very good if we had more companies like Dalekovod. Our power distribution system requires a little more investment in the next period, because the losses in that part of the power system may be higher than the average and will need to pay attention. Production. Production is a particular area shown in this report in one visible way, I would say a quality and instructive way that warns and shows that the structure of production in the electricity system of the Republic of Croatia is such a character that it can pose a threat to the energy security and stability of the Croatian system in the long term. And for that reason, building up, strengthening investment in production, building new power facilities is certainly one of the priorities. But we've been talking for the last days and the last maybe a month for various reasons about what seems to be our priority at the moment is gas, storage, diversification, sources, LNG etc. But that part of the capacity and capacity of our production, our thermal power plants, our hydropower plants deserve special attention because of the fact that it's resources that are over thirty years old. Electricity prices, electricity quality. It is the same part of the business and competences of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. In 2007, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on energy regulation and the new status of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency was adopted. The adoption of the Act amending and supplementing the Energy Regulatory Act established a new organisational framework for the work and operation of the Agency and provided for the conditions for the development of the Agency in an independent and professional body, which is a presumption of the task of monitoring the implementation of regulated energy activities of the development of the energy market. Taking into account that a number of major changes have occurred in organisational and other respects for the past few years, we can really be satisfied with the level of HERE skills given the complexity of all these tasks and therefore is one of the most important priorities of HERE in the past period and today is strengthening the professional, organisational and staff structure of the agency. Ensuring the competence of professional managers and professional work in the Agency by selecting a manager through a public tender, and this is a very important aspect that ensures the selection of the best in these very important and responsible jobs, ensuring that the Agency is more efficient as an independent and independent regulatory body. In 2007, the Agency adopted the following tariff systems without a level of tariff items, a tariff system for the distribution of natural gas without a level of tariff items for certain and understandable reasons, a tariff system for natural gas supply, a tariff system for the transport of oil, a tariff system for energy activities, production, distribution and supply of heat energy, a decision on the amount of tariffs for the transport of oil by pipeline. During 2007, the agency issued a total of 67 permits and resolved around 170 complaints from customers. At the end of 2007, the agency had a total of 37 workers. One little correction. I recommend 37 employees. We speak Croatian, don't we? In 2008, the agency eventually had a total of 43 employees. Funding the agency. Based on a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the amount of compensation for carrying out energy regulation activities of the Agency by providing from the following sources, a fee of 0,06% of the total annual revenue from the sale of goods and/or services achieved in the previous year by energy entities based on the exercise of energy activity based on an energy activity permit. One part of the funds that ensures that the Agency's budget is charged and the other part is a one-time fee for the Agency's work according to a review of the Agency's work fees. Table 141 review of the permits for the performance of energy activities issued in 2007. What can in some ways be instructed from this table is the production of electricity 5 permits, supply 23. Then, transport, trade, storage, trading, trade in some way suggests that it would be very good if in the future we had more and more of those companies showing interest in production so that our electricity system would have basically far greater potential and capacity and reserves in case of certain risks, strengthening the transmission network is also one of the priorities. And for these reasons, the program for strengthening our electricity transmission system includes development, construction of 400 kiloolt power lines, Ernestinovo-Pec, is one of the most important infrastructure projects. All in all, this report and what we have heard is one report that best illustrates competence, the ability of HERE to carry out quality control over our electrical, or energy system as a whole. Thank you very much. The HDZ Club supports this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25268	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25269	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, first of all, we regret that this HERE report didn't come back last year, because if it had come, maybe some of the things that we mentioned in the debate and that we're going to mention today would have already been removed in the next report. And perhaps the reaction given the new crisis in energy supply would be different. Croatia has more problems in the energy sector. I'll just count them quickly. This is the independence of the electricity system, the small production capacity which long-term and pushes the uncertainty of investments, the dependence on fuel supply. This is an insufficient price of electricity, unfortunately. This is what will happen to us that with full liberalisation of the market we will be forced to raise electricity prices, i.e. the HEP power distributor that will definitely be a shock to the economy and citizens. Also, it's an unsettled electricity market. Therefore, no full regulation of the market and the transfer and distribution on the one hand, production and supply on the other. Waste disposal is one of the problems, especially the issue of waste from the Krško nuclear power plant as well as the disposal of emerging waste. With all this, we must respect Kyoto protocol, nature protection, and we have not included enough citizens in rational energy consumption. This is a strategy for efficiency of electricity consumption. I'm glad it started with the shifts in 2007, but only by the UNDPA launched in September in Sisak. Building a renewable energy source for the time being is one set of sports which is unfortunately a condition in the European Union or fortunately. Until 2020. We must have 20% capacity from renewable energy sources. And what it looks like is our energy strategy, which is 2008. On November 10th at the Westin Hotel presented the Deputy Prime Minister. So, behind the last 2002 strategy that practically nothing was done looks like this. It is one draft green book that contains a plan of wishes and an investment plan that needs to be made, but unfortunately does not contain a financial plan. Therefore, it does not show who will pay for these investments, so there is no material support for investments. So it is not in line with the economic strategy. I've given myself a little effort, and I've seen what should be closed by 2020. By 2020 only about 1250 megawatts of capacity should be closed in the electricity supply system. Now Croatia has 3,800 megawatts, not all of them. In parallel, by 2020, with investment in standard power plants, the same capacity should be opened. That means we'd be in a much more unfavourable situation than we are right now. The rest of the energy to be replaced should be compensated from renewable energy sources, and I'll tell you that one wind power plant, meaning a biomass power plant or a solar power plant costs between 2 and 6 times more money than gas power plants, solid fuel power plants, and we weren't able to build these power plants on gas and solid fuel, and now we expect to build 1200 megawatts of these by 2020. However, they must have spare capacity because it is a legal obligation and if we compare those figures in 2020 and 2008 when the strategy is presented, we come that if we want to be on the same development, i.e. on the same supply i.e. Energy coverage as it is now would have to grow at a rate of 0.5 to 1% and I do not believe that the strategy planned a recession for 12 years, i.e. poor economic growth. This is a lack of strategy. So it's not an energy strategy. In my opinion, it's a wish plan and a wish list. What has been missed in the last 5 years is that there is not exactly this clear strategy, there is no regulated production of electricity, according to economic growth is not an increased number of production capacities, the existing facilities are abandoned, no electricity price is regulated, only in part, which will affect us through the shock of the economy if we come to a fully liberalised market. Unfortunately, no gas storage capacity has been increased either, and I'll talk about it later and HEP is a loser distributor. Also, what is actually not included in the strategy is gas, electricity, oil, coal and wood, so the exchange of energy that is necessary for the independence of energy supply. Now, let me look back at this gas crisis that rocked us in the first month. What hasn't happened lately? Not increased, the government has not increased gas production, although there are opportunities for this. The storage facilities have not increased, new supply routes have not been opened, long-term and firm supply contracts have not been concluded, and the contract with Russia expires for the following year and policies of national interest have not been built. Otherwise, Plinacro as a company that is 100% state-owned does 3 things important for gas supply. Distribution, transportation and storage. For the first part for distribution and transport there are tariff systems, for gas storage there is no tariff system. You passed the law in 2007, i.e. an amendment to the law under which you did not provide for a storage obligation within the transport operator, and that is why it costs us today. Also, the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency HERA should act as an independent body, but its action is fully declassified, so HERA does not determine the price of gas and should. So it's already being determined by the government. So you as an independent body have to regulate it. The government can't tell you the price of gas. What happened in the economy, which is also the report of the Croatian Employers' Association. That's what it's written about, and it's still said, 2 billion kunas of direct or indirect damage in the economy. 2 billion kuna in the year of recession is between 0.5% and 1% of the economic growth foreseen for this year, so that we can hardly talk about economic growth and, in fact, for the Croatian economy, it is a great risk to have capacities, i.e. to invest with regard to the lack of confidence in the supply of energy. It wasn't invested in building a power plant, and what are the benefits of building a power plant? Power plants, the construction of power plants generates economic growth. It's a state investment that's proactive. So, it's strategic, it's not rehabilitating like rebuilding certain roads and popular moves, meaning to stimulate state spending that go especially in the election year. The construction of the power plant is done by Croatian firms. This increases the investment capacity of the Croatian economy itself, building energy capacities opens jobs during construction and after construction, provides a strategic position in the region. That's what we were talking about when we had reports from the National Science Foundation. We can be strategically well-positioned in energy because in the neighborhood, the situation is worse than with us, but according to that goal, we need to have a plan and strategy to do so, and primarily the financial plan and the construction of power plants ensures energy independence, and that is particularly important for investors. What is the message to investors after the damage suffered in the economy? One Hungary, for example, has gas supplies in 3 months. Croatia has not regulated the tariff system and Croatia has no regulation of storage facilities. Hungary has not lost a single euro in the economy because of gas. Neither is Slovenia. 2 billion losses in the economy also mean loss of jobs. I read today in the Evening List that the trend through October, November and December 516 quits daily. So far, 11,000 layoffs. I don't want to assume what the consequences will be for 2 billion unrealized revenues in the economy because of this gas crisis. The message to investors was next. We don't have a clear fiscal policy, we don't know whether to freeze wages or not to freeze wages. Anyone who wants to invest in the production process in the Republic of Croatia accounts for a period of 5 to 8 years. It's, from 3 to 8, it's a business process, it's a period of business process, and if the state doesn't pour security into fiscal policy, no one will come to invest. Save it, when it saves, it needs growth, not now that we don't have money for any investment. Now the belt is tightening, now it definitely doesn't need to be tightened, and that's a bad thing. Energy, so the behaviour in this energy situation has led us to send a message that we are not ready for crisis situations, you better not come here to invest because you may lose your money and what is happening is actually all the opposite of what the European Commission has prescribed through the European Commission's two-bit dictionary plan, these are... dimend, meaning stimulating consumption and long term smart investments, and definitely investment climate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We cannot boast of such an investment climate since the increase in the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship in this year is only 2%. So that's definitely not enough for an expected swing this year. As for HERA and Domain business and regulation, it started with 5 employees, now it has 38, 166 or 163 performances at your address. My question of what does these 38 employees do and why have you increased your capacity so much? You should protect consumers in safe delivery, and there you definitely failed because during the crisis, I followed CNN and BBC and many news agencies and televisions throughout Europe, I did not see HERA sounding, but was already taking over the role of HERA Damir Polancec. Now I ask who is president of HERA, Damir Polancec or Tomo Galic? Croatia has a bunch of agencies and a bunch of regulators. And those regulatory services cost money. But ultimately the burden of regulators goes to the burden of the economy and to the burden of end-users, on the burden of households, and that is what is unacceptable. And since such a cost of regulation is expected from regulators, we expect and ask regulators to intervene in crisis situations and offer solutions that have not happened. Hera didn't answer there. I also have to ask, you in your financial plan stand, you have 38 employees, you bought space from JANAF which is a private firm, that space in Vukovar has capacity for 150 employees. Why buy space that has capacity for 150 employees, when there are only 38 of you? It's something you also need to answer. And finally, once the president pointed out to me that it was sad that there had to be an energy crisis in order for Croatia to realize that it is necessary to have more than one source of energy, i.e. energy strategy, but this reflects on a complete set of structural things in society. ... For years, spending has been encouraged for popular measures, not invested in structural things, and now that we should invest in structural things, we have no money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The problem is in the Croatian Railways, the problem in shipbuilding 1 and a half billion kunas in shipbuilding could only be financed if the industry did not lose 2 billion kunas, the problem is in post office, energy problems, regional policy problems. The problem of restructuring pension policy, health policy, reorganisation, a massive state administration, and ultimately, if you want an inter-border dispute with Slovenia that serves as an alibi in some parts, we cannot enter the European Union now, and if we did, then we would actually attract all investments and solve all our concerns. These are the problems that have been put off, all the problems have been delayed, the structural problems have not been solved and that's what comes on the charge. We don't need to, and if you ask Deputy Prime Minister Polancec, he's very well-informed and very well perhaps knows what to do in a bunch of situations. There's the only little difference between what he knows and what he does. These things were not done and this is the main problem of Croatian society today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25270	Thank you. Two corrections. First Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25271	Mr. Vice-President, however, it is still necessary to correct an incorrect allegation of a respected representative who said, quote: "The construction of power plants is done by Croatian firms." That would be very good if that were true. Croatian firms can participate in the construction of power plants 40, 50%. I think it is useful for the Croatian public to know, because it would be inadmissible, I agree with an inadmissible mistake if we could build a 500 megawatt thermal power plant ourselves without doing it. This is such an important observation, perhaps a formal correction because of the fact that without strategic partners, whether it is RV, Siemens, Eon etc., we really cannot build large power plants, and the creation of these partnerships I would say is the same kind of knowledge and experience as the technical design itself and the implementation of such a project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25272	Second Amendment, Mr. Representative Vladimir Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25273	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Amongst a number of incorrect allegations, I would correct one that referred to the claim that Plinacro has three activities, so transport, distribution and storage, and that it has a tariff system for transport only. Namely Plinacro has only one activity, which is transportation, distribution has distributors and there are tariff systems, and what is most important and why I am correcting this quote is the warehouse. In fact, in 2000, the government made a decision to single out Plinacro, i.e. Plinacro was left alone from an INA without a warehouse, the warehouse remained in the INA, the warehouse today cannot get a Plinacro permit for energy storage activity without storage. So he can only access the construction of a new warehouse or choose capital based exit from the existing INA. So, once again, I repeat, you've put the storage in the INA in time, and that's why Plinacro can't have it, and without Plincra, the state can't even have direct control over the storage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25274	HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25275	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. We have a report from the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency 2007 in early 2009. I think that every further comment is too high and that was already the case and I think another one in a series of positions primarily by the Croatian government and all others towards the parliament of the Republic of Croatia, according to the citizens of this country and I join the thinking of my colleague Bernardic that last year we had the opportunity to discuss it safely so that we could talk a little more strongly about some problems. I doubt that the government's ability to prevent the damage that has occurred specifically on gas but would warn the Croatian public if nothing else had been introduced by the reduction, the fact is that the introduction would not have been panicically introduced but introduced selectively would have been taken into account by economic operators, would have been taken into account the damages that occurred in economic operators and they were in height, in an estimate of 2 billion kuna. About the importance of this report above all, I can say that it is very high-quality in the context of the possibility, to process all areas, and in particular I must add that it deals with what, in fact, does not deal with what is the underlying problem and these are the conditions of our entire energy sector, position, opportunity, strategy, long-term and everything else that usually goes on by each responsible state or each responsible owner is doing whatever segment we are talking about. And surely, in the context of all this, the agency whose report is now in the debate, that it did what it could, that it could have been more certain that it could no longer have been listed individually now, but the question again is how realistic it is and is allowed to speak more because we know the way in which the members of the agency are appointed and how essential the independent agency is. That energy sovereignty is one of the key elements of the sovereignty of the state is a known thing. I'm glad and happy in any case that it's finally started to develop an energy strategy. We also expect her in the debate here in parliament. However, one segment of which we have also discussed in the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, which is renewable energy sources, and in particular forest biomass that has been measured into a potential turned into tons of oil at 800 thousand tonnes, I repeat 800 thousand tonnes of oil is less imports, that through forest waste that collapses in the forest it is cemented by market prices somewhere around 40 million euros. Therefore, when we talk about the funds and the lack of funds they are there only need to be known to activate them, they lie all around us. There's no mention of the wood waste our final wood industry has, which goes into the air, palettes, replacement fossils for liquid fuels, sure it's not good that our producers and we have about seven of them in this country, the palette producers have problems delivering these palettes. It is fortunate that smart Slovenians, Hungarians and even the eastern part of Slavonia and Serbia buy out these palettes, convert, replace fossil fuels for an environmentally acceptable and energy-efficient and ultimately cheaper. However, the fact is that everything somewhere around 30% of our schools, primary schools and secondary schools has secured gas heating and everything else on fossil fuels. Therefore, any further discussion on this subject is too high, there will be opportunities to talk about and there will be simple conditions for the economy, especially this crisis, this recession that we have entered will make this boast when we talk about energy, to turn this haughtiness into concrete activities and concrete actions. Let me just mention that, and that was the talk about the energy strategy. The fact that the potential of renewable energy sources, I'm talking about forest bio mass in the energy strategy is defined in the feasibility of only 20% by 2020. I mean, even in a series of other elements, it can be freely concluded that the proposal for an energy strategy has written a very precise and clearly defined lobby with its interests. Whether they are in the direction of nuclear energy, whether they are in the direction of coal, gas, others but definitely renewable energy sources where Croatia has an extremely high potential are neglected, neglected, even underestimated. How much and to what extent this new Agriculture Act, which is in any case, I hope that the Constitutional Court of the Agricultural Land Act, that the Constitutional Court will make its final decision and disclose that I do not use a word that simply follows that law to undo it but it is certainly a question of question. And I'm asking here today how much and this Agricultural Land Act gives us the opportunity for foreigners on our agricultural land to use benefits and to convert agricultural bio-mass into energy in the future. And let's just say, something that in the energy strategy, there's hardly a word. In particular, when I talk about this report, I don't think there's any need to conclude that in early 2009, we're getting a report in 2007, it's certainly not the agency's employees' fault. They did their report and their part of the work very correctly, they wrote very correctly, but I would stop a little bit more on the gas chapter, something that is fresh, something that we know, something that our citizens and especially the businessmen felt, which is that because of the dimension of the potential that we have, which is that in 2007, we produced 2355 million cubic meters from our production, that we imported what is 69% from Russia, I'm saying for 2007, we have no data. If a thousand million metres of cubic or 31% were imported from Russia, then our own production has almost 70% of our needs, our consumption. The fact is that this unfortunate warehouse around which is extremely wordful, that in 2007, 267 cubic cc's were pumped into it, and 383 cc's were extracted, saying that we were more than stored inside, I repeat, in 2007. I doubt that something significant changed in 2008, but the fact is that we welcomed this gas crisis with a capacity of approximately 370 million cc's of gas and that some 60% of those went in, it's nominally 580,000. We know that at a time when it was completely full that it was over 600, so it has one capacity above this nominal. And it is also known that there were 40 million Slovenian gas stored inside, in other words we welcomed the energy crisis with 320 or almost half the capacity. If we had a lot of gas storage, and certainly in the summer when the gas was cheaper, quite certainly that we filled it, we with that gas warehouse with our production could have lasted 30 days according to my estimate. It may not be true, but 5, 6 days can be in the plus, it may be in the minus, but it certainly is not because of which we did not, which is why we had damage to the economy exclusively is our fault and we cannot and is not correct and it is not fair to get away with the conflict of Russia and Ukraine, but we still need to look into their backyard and clear things up in their backyard. And in the end one question clear to the colleagues of HERA, the warehouse around. Talks are being held, disagreements are being held and today, in the current hour, Vice President Polancec said he was in talks with MOL, to buy that warehouse from MOL, that warehouse in Croatia. Two questions are being asked. First, it is known that it was the obligation of the INA to transfer that warehouse somewhere in 2004, to transfer that warehouse to... It didn't work out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why and for what? We know who was in 2004 in power, it's famous. Secondly, I'm asking a question, with this legal authority of the HERA Agency whether we need to buy that warehouse at all, because that warehouse here, that gas will be stored there. It doesn't matter who owns it. Normally, storage costs must be paid. It's so clear, but in this whole story, HERA has an extremely clear role and a very clear control and each other that is necessary and that this warehouse is in the function of supplying the citizens of this country. Therefore, the question arises whether you should spend money on buying something that is in function of our own, and through all legal provisions, through all legal possibilities, and above all, we have guaranteed this agency... The warehouse, it just needs to be filled. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not to mention the need, which is a familiar thing, the need to build a new warehouse. Locations are also known, opportunities are known, cost 230m euros. Now I'm asking, taught by the experience we had and the damage the economy had recently, I'm asking if a new gas storage facility or if it's a priority of the Pelje Bridge is a priority for this country? And a whole series of investments that are envisaged in the budget, unfortunately due to recession and crisis and one irresponsible budget agreement for 2009, we will soon be forced to work, if not us, but the IMF will order us to do a budget rebalance, and these investments will certainly come out of that budget. But the key question is how responsible we are for this country's economy if we don't create conditions for normal management, in this case we're talking about security of regular energy supply. We in the Croatian People's Party will support this report and there is no reason not to support it, but in any case, the issue of storage, the question of responsibility for this gas crisis, I think it is unnecessary to repeat, it is known who is guilty. It should be emphasized that citizens understand it, but at the same time also take care of it in those moments when they get the opportunity to plead for someone. But is it essential that the state of Croatia buys something that is on its territory and something that can be in its function? I'm talking about buying a warehouse around here. Only if by mutual arrangements what the public doesn't know, and such examples were, which doesn't know for sure this Parliament, we've taken over some obligation that we must now return with the purchase of the warehouse around. Well, that's another thing that there's no answer to that, but as a possibility there is. And the third thing, when, in what time and where are we going to access the construction of the new warehouse? LNG terminals, other things I don't think there's any need to say because it's the same thing, it's a familiar thing, it's a known irresponsibility in approach to solving that problem. But when we talk about underground gas storage, given that we have very strong gas production, I think the new warehouse is necessary, I think we need and expect the Government of the Republic of Croatia to give the Croatian public that information and thus the economy in both the country and those who possibly still intend to invest in us, provide one additional security, security in the supply of energy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25276	Thank you. One correction. Mr. Representative Vladimir Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25277	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'd do it again and again in different places I repeat the data, which is that the warehouse around there was about 370 million. In fact, it's about that the warehouse around here got into a long season of 550 million cc's. So, with maximum charge. The warehouse around here isn't a crisis reserve. She's a normal warehouse for normal activity. So throughout the year and every year, the gas from the warehouse around is used because in the winter months, in the consumption spikes, neither through supply from imports, nor with production can satisfy our consumption. So it's not a crisis reserve. It is a regular storage activity, and of course a reserve for crisis situations if necessary, and now it has been shown that in this case it will also have an appropriate price to be paid regularly in the current price of gas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25278	Thank you. Now we'll interrupt the session and continue the debate tomorrow on the same subject. First in line is Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25279	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good morning, everyone. We continue the individual debate on the report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2007 and the implementation of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2007. So we're continuing an individual debate. It's Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25280	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and fellow agents, agency representatives. Here, when we analyse this report first, let's say a few words about the purpose of the existence of agencies in Croatia at all. We have started introducing regulatory agencies five, six years ago, and the purpose of the agency is not only that it is administratively doing the tasks entrusted to it, which until then was done by the state but rather to protect consumers, to ensure quality sources and control of energy sources and the sustainability of energy supply. What I think is the first basic problem when we discuss this report. It doesn't matter inside that we only have a high-quality balance, quality sector analysis. I am primarily interested in what and how and how further it means to ensure Croatia's energy independence and quality. Finally, consumer safety in Croatia so that they can have the energy sources they need. As far as the 2007 report itself is concerned, it has been years and a few months since 2007, and I wish we had discussed this report last year. I know that what came to the Parliament last year, at the end of the year but perhaps all these situations that happened after and the gas crisis could also be a quality debate on this report before and discussed and perhaps better prepared for it. Therefore, here in yesterday's debate was already heard in the discussion of counterpart Bernardic that 38 people were employed at the agency and the president himself of the agency's council said 47. We already see that the data, let's say, is not accredited or that we're talking about something that isn't even current today. We are talking about the situation of 20007 which may be absolutely necessary today to discuss in the Parliament but I do not think it is current and is not what we should discuss here today, and these are the problems of Croatia in the supply of energy and the quality of that energy. Here, we have witnessed the recent months of the crisis that has occurred in Croatia related to gas supply, natural gas and absolutely HERA is one of the institutions that should perhaps not react in a way that carries out concrete activities but because one part of the description of HERA's business is that it is working a strategy and to warn about the problems that might occur in this sector. I'm sorry that we didn't have any information from HERA, or this analysis that we're getting in these reports, suggest that such problems can happen as they did. What is especially from the laws governing HERA can be read, and that is, above all, that, with the fundamental objectives of regulating energy activities, as I have said, energy and energy customers are also protected. What am I saying that for? Because the agency itself is financed from the fees that these customers charge from someone. So, the agency is costing customers in Croatia, specifically here companies, and then of course we must not only in our own right be the purpose and charge 27 million kuna a year from the economy but then the economy must be protected. On the other hand, it participates in the development of certain strategies, regulations along with the HERA government, so it says it should be. And here, I don't know, and maybe the representatives of the agency will tell us if they were involved in making a regulation that was passed on September 30, 2008 and that watch the paradox called about the security of natural gas supply. As if the government had assumed that there would be problems but unfortunately did not seriously adhere to the business or the basics defined in that regulation did not ensure that they were implemented, and in the regulation everything was numbered in order. So the first is the development of domestic production of natural gas, which unfortunately the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not had in mind for the past five years either. Otherwise, if she had in mind the development of domestic gas production then she would have invested in new wells on the Central Adriatic which were discovered and Croatia would have no problem supplying gas this winter. Diversification of the natural gas supply source. The same thing, if the Croatian government had thought about it for the past five years, would have provided not only one gas source, which is this Russian one, but would have provided more resources and still no problems. If she had strong and secure natural gas contracts outside the Republic of Croatia, there would probably be no such problems. And all that stuff, investment in natural gas infrastructure, it's been said about the gas ingested terminal he's reactivated now that the gas crisis has been in place, we haven't discussed anything for the past five years. All of these things that the government has counted in the regulation have not worked on them for the last five years, and that's why we're in the situation we're in. Unfortunately, I would like to have such proposals in such reports of HERA, or what should be done in order for Croatia to have an important segment of its independence and that is, above all, energy independence. When we look at it I said the economy suffered huge damage, 2 billion kunas caused by the gas crisis or by the gas supply when it was a reduction in VI. the degree of all economic operators has been rediscovered. And the paradox is that the one who pays compensation for the regulator means through the price and that part of the energy price is allocated to fund the regulator has lost about 2 billion kuna. What is particularly prominent seems to me to be that the agency, is numbered what it has done, how many solutions it has made. When we talk about consumers 163 complaints in 2007, I find it extremely small, almost as if the agency is not as recognizable as the one that should protect consumers. 163 complaints throughout the year on this quantity of consumers that exist on the market tell me that the agency is acting semi-illegal, i.e. as if it is not sufficiently recognizable as it should protect consumers on the energy market. And that's why I think I could compromise it with other agencies. There are those who are more present, for example, here's what I'm going to say more actively about being public-recognizable, like HANFA. She's here all the time. Unfortunately, HERA seems to me to be acting in an illegal capacity, i.e. it is not enough to impose itself as an agency that it should, and in some way in front of the Parliament, because the agency is still not responding to the Government, but to share with the Parliament a lever that should regulate the market and ensure the quality of energy supply, i.e. the quality of the service of those who provide those services on the market. And that's why I'm not happy, I'm saying I'm not happy with a report that will just count my balance, income, expenditure and analysis of what it is. I think the agency, given its powers and influence and what the law can give rise to and must have a greater impact on the whole market. It should give the Croatian public more confidence and to Croatian businessmen that with some vision and impact on the development of the entire market in Croatia they can feel more secure that they will be able to use the quality and, of course, service in the amount they need there. That's why I won't support this report. Not because I don't think the idea of the regulator is good, but because I don't think it's developed enough and the agency has to show more in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25281	Thank you. It is Mr. Zastavnik Zvonimir Mršić, who is not here. He should be discussing this wheel. Mr. Representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25282	Dear President, distinguished guests, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is a public institution with public powers acting as an independent, independent, non-profit organisation. Its work is determined by the law on energy regulation and that it is so of a special nature, I would say of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia. How is it financed? Income from carrying out its own activity. Therefore, the fee for granting licences to energy operators for carrying out energy activities and revenues, as we see in the report, and also by law defined 0.06% of the total annual revenue from the sale of goods or services which were obtained in the previous year by an energy entity based on valid licences issued by the Agency. So the agency doesn't burden the state budget. The Agency is required to report annually to the Croatian Parliament on the state of development of the energy market and public services in the energy sector. According to the energy sector analysis. According to the results of monitoring the performance of energy subjects' obligations and I would say, therefore, about the state of social blood flow. These obligations were granted to the Agency by the Energy Regulation Act, the Energy Act, the Electricity Market Act, the Gas Market Act and so on, so as not to list them. Under all these regulations and obligations, the Agency issued a total of 67 permits for energy activities during 2007. Among them are 5 permits for electricity production, one for heat production and one for biofuel production. I especially highlight them because they are important, because they are indicative, significant products. I don't want to mention the rest of these other ones, and I'm not going to mention them, and of course they're important and important, but they make me happier. The agency also gives opinions on the rules and regulations in the energy sector and, according to the report, there were 34 in 2007. It also resolves disputes relating to the performance of regulated energy activities such as the refusal of connection to the transmission network or transport system or the fixing of compensation for those actions. I know this is all in the law, but it's important to point out this time. Also, when it comes to the rejection of the connection and the amount of charge for connections to electricity, natural gas, heat. I wanted to repeat this so that we could understand once again the importance and sensitivity of the work the agency is doing. As everything is networked in the world today, we see from the reports that the agency is working with the relevant regulatory bodies of European countries, as well as the United States. In order for the relevant law and regulations to be as good as possible, it is also necessary for the Agency to cooperate with the RES, in this case, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship as the designer of legislative regulation and the legislator of a number of regulations from the domains of the Agency, and we see that a number of sublegal acts have been adopted during 2007 that regulate the issue of renewable electricity sources. The analysis also shows that since the independence of the Republic of Croatia we have not worked enough to increase the production of electricity and I welcome the current efforts to increase this increase, whether hydroenergy, thermoenergy or even better, wind energy. It would be good to work even more on producing more natural gas. As we can see, we now draw 70% of the needs from domestic sources, and in this way we would depend less on import. And this is especially important that we spread the gas network, especially according to Dalmatia these days, and of course I also welcome the expansion of the gas network in Istria, the eastern, central part of the Republic of Croatia, but this implies that we will need more gas, which means that these 70% of domestic production will decrease, I don't know to 60, 50 or how much of the need. That's why more effort needs to be made. These objections that came out a little yesterday, and this morning from a colleague, the agency wants to be blamed for a certain amount of guilt. The agency is an administrative, regulatory, supervisory body, and these other things are in the hands of those who determine economic operators, I would also say from spatial plans from local self-government, regional to forwarding. I don't think the agency is directly responsible for this, and, of course, in the administrative sense, its role is very important. And in conclusion, the agency has been working for several years. I have a report in front of me on the work for 2007, and I would say that it is very transparent, visible and thorough. And most importantly, it includes, in one place, a review of the state of the entire energy sector, once again, the blood flow of society. And that's why I support the report, and here's my commendation for the agency's work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25283	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Vladimir Ivkovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25284	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable Directors. The Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is a response to the country's natural monopoly in how to regulate the area in those where there is no real competition. Our HERA through this report shows that this job is growing year after year. The authorisation order has been entered. HERA has been actively involved in the coordination of the production of tariff systems, the coordination of production works particularly well at coordinating the drafting of draft laws, regulations, sublegal acts, etc. It was one of the most painful wounds in energy, where there was actually no authority to propose at that stage before direct legal procedure. It also proposed from tariff items in which it could be said that it was finally and recognised activities with its price within some energy activities. What I would like to talk about this time is precisely in that section relating to tariffs, i.e. recognition in that professional part of some of the costs that are recognised or not recognised in the pricing process. In natural gas, there is a very obvious situation in which the proposal shows that HER has a double standard of capital invested in systems and mainly in distribution systems. For some companies, the requirement is, those parts of the price, i.e. the tariff items which speak, or which show the investment of foreign investors in individual companies. So, for example. For example, Rijeka and Rijeka distributors can see that the presence is defined, an addition to the price which is essentially a return on capital, and even we could say some rate that would guarantee and certain profit. Unlike that, for example. When it comes to Varazdin and their distributor, then we're asking ourselves that we are, the company has invested which has been there for decades. And to them only because domestic capital, which is the capital of municipalities, cities, which is part of the capital and private, is easily accessed in a different way. So that's what we should think about in the future and not make a difference between capital. This is especially because this is the capital that directly invested the company in the distribution system to which it owns, and in rare cases it is actually about investing in the purchase of shares and the return of investment that is on the capital basis of the day in the company itself. And yet another thing, in tariffs, is the thing I would like to specifically point out, it's a matter of tariffs before a concession contract is obtained. These days we are witnessing competitions that begin to be called in Dalmatia, starting from Zadar County and we can ask ourselves one basic question which is, since last year we changed the Law on concessions so we told that from now on and concessions go on, they apply the public procurement procedure, so, and all those rules, the finest offers. So the question is how to put it in these offers, how to set up the state, the county, the bidder and all those who decide in the process. When one of the items is the price of gas. It is known that the price of gas is approved by the Government on a proposal from HERA, or an energy entity, in which case. And then the question arises what if a potential distributor offers a certain price in the competition and that price later will not go either negatively or positively. So either it goes smaller, or it goes higher. In my view, this price approval process should be included, but in the public tender procedure, because simply what would be offered as a price in the sea tender and would be binding on the two parties, should already have the appropriate procedure through the tariff attitudes and the price approval as it could be. Especially since construction other than from the price can be financed and significantly... the accession, and the compensation for accessions under the same procedure would say, the same should be predetermined a, and then cannot be awarded in that sense. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, I would like to suggest that the whole process is organised so that the HERA, and then the Government, too, is involved in price formation in advance, in order to know the most important component of the concession contract that will later, which will have to work on for the next 30 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25285	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Slavko Linic
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25286	Mr. President, representatives of the government, President of the Council, colleagues and colleagues. The HERA report is about to put a slightly larger accent on the gas market and ask ourselves if each of us has set up and done his job so that we can say that the gas market is well organized. It is evident that the difficulties we have had over the past month have made it clear to the Croatian public that we have not organised the gas market well. I wonder where the responsibility of the Croatian Parliament is in that section. Well, first of all, we're discussing the HERA report for 2007/2009, it's one of our irresponsibility, because the report has been made before. Let's move on, is passing laws by the Croatian Parliament enough to take responsibility off us for an inefficient gas market? It's not. We also passed the Gas Market Act in 2007 with certain weaknesses that we now see are. We also passed laws, formed regulatory bodies. Regulatory authorities are obliged to report that we are also involved in the organisation of the gas market. And what can we conclude? I can't accept this HERA report. Why? Well, because that report does not discuss the problems of the gas market and the problems that this Assembly needs to address. And what are these problems? You see, the law was passed in 2007. There's one stupid thing that's been done in that law. It's a warehouse separate from transport. So tell me, where it's possible to carry out a transport without a warehouse and apparently the storage business should have been within the framework of the transport of gas because that's how HERA defined it. It only established the tariff system for transport. Not for the warehouse, because the warehouse can be both productive and transportable. Our production warehouses aren't interested. Production warehouses should be made by manufacturers. They should be obliged to have their own warehouses, but the transport responsible for security of supply must have its own warehouses. Weaknesses in the law, she didn't even notice them, didn't HERA, or put in her report that we as parliamentarians need to discuss it, so we simply have to discuss what's wrong with the law of implementation to try to resolve it in some way. This 2007 law, in its articles, particularly on warehouse operations, speaks very clearly about the obligations of the operator. They had to give investment plans, investment funds, they had to give the dynamics of investment. It all had to go away. Both the Ministry and the Supervisory Regulatory Authority. Do we have those documents? The HERA report doesn't have it, I don't see it. We don't have those documents. Simply, the operators who received our regulator's powers did not implement the law even though they had to implement it in April 2008 at the latest. So we stayed with the market that simply remained unqualityly covered. With a market that didn't give safety to the citizens or the economy. This was what the report had to do to allow us as parliamentary representatives to assess from such expert reports what should be done to change the current situation. By accepting such a report with no conclusions what to do, without suggestion by regulators what to do to change the situation on the gas market is simply unacceptable. Let's move on to the most important point. And what is the most important point missing from this report? Well, that's got to be Article 72. The law on the gas market given to the Croatian government that we do not have regulated tariff positions marking the competition. The government has given itself the right to regulate market prices on behalf of some social policy until 2011. In HERA's report, we don't have an estimate of what it's going to mean for the gas market. We don't have the impression that it's unacceptable. Why is it unacceptable? So if you don't have economic relations in energy, you don't have the security of supply who's going to enter the gas business in private companies, secure sufficient quantities of production? Who's going to provide 5.6 contracts for different transport routes to have security supplies? No one. There is no economic interest, no positive results that will provide enough resources to invest continuously in this business. Article 72 of the Law is problematic. This is what HERA must make us aware of the burden of responsibility of all of us when we bring such articles. That it's unacceptable that one of the energy companies has this status, why does he have it? Oil products, free electricity, also problematic. Tree, free formation. Therefore, different sources are those that have market elements, and there is no gas. And anyway, it's going to last until 2011. Will we force, government decisions, impose, force everyone into a system of production, transport, gas storage to invest and solve the market without economic relations? Well, he won't, he won't. Can we, as Parliamentarians, accept that social policy is that everyone has cheap gas? Everyone. And those who make extra profits and those who are rich as individuals, they all have cheap gas. For what? So it is not the gas that is used throughout Croatia, in some parts of Croatia. Therefore, social policy is unacceptable, and the main reason we have an insecure and unstable gas market. That's the job HERA had to do. It had to be in this report. It's all our fault with the 2007 law, and HERA didn't do it this way. Will we ever be able to solve problems this year? With what? Orders? Political orders? Well, at least that's why we have regulators who have to warn that this no longer exists in regulated companies in the market economy, does not guarantee security. This is what we must ask every regulator to show us exactly how we will improve and ensure stability with our regulations. The stability of the market and the security of the market for both our citizens and our economics. It's waiting for us at the price of electricity... The current and that part we need to get from HERA very clearly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What does non-economic relations in energy mean? How many problems will we have with insufficient investment in energy? Of course, by doing so, we will have HERA and reports on why we use renewable resources so little, why there is no investment in renewable sources. We simply don't have that information on HERA's report. Without such data, I doubt that we will be able to address legislative procedures in quality laws in a quality way, and it is not really what is happening anymore. I therefore expect that the 2008 report will be very critical of the adopted laws, all in order for the market to be under the supervision of the regulatory body and to warn us in the Parliament where we are making a mistake and destabilise the market ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25287	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25288	Thank you, Mr. President. I would correct Mr Linic's false claim in the part where he said that the fact that HERA does not have the investment plans mentioned in its reports by the transporter "Plinar" also means that Plinacro does not have that plan. Namely, I will remind Mr Linic that still his government has adopted in two periods a plan to invest, and about the first five years of this century, to say the other five years. The fact is that she was late for the first four years and the fact is that the plan for the first five fully around investments has been achieved. Thus, the plan was such and “Plinacro” fully realized it. He built a pipeline from the submarine to Karlovac, built from Ivanje Reka to Slavonski Brod and thus created these preconditions that proved themselves in this gas crisis from a technical point of view that they were conjecture.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25289	Thank you. And five minutes on behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25290	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here's what's mentioned in the SDP debate so far, it won't or can't support this report because you haven't fulfilled your role. You've released a law where the government determines the price of gas in 2007 did not fulfill your role. You did not ensure the obligation of the tariff system to store gas, which put consumers at risk. You also haven't fulfilled your role. You did not protect consumers in gas supply and secure sufficient quantities of gas. You are also indirectly guilty and responsible for 2 billion kuna losses incurred in the economy and the question is who will pay for it, who will make it up to the Croatian economy. The cost of the regulator is expensive. Breaking through consumers, and cannot provide them with quality and affordable gas supply. Bad message to investors. You didn't even answer at the time of the crisis. Instead of you, it was done by Damir Polancec, the Deputy Prime Minister. As I repeat once again, the cost of the regulator is expensive. It's paid by the economy, paid by citizens, and you've bought expensive premises from private firms for three times the capacity. From this point on, the SDP club will neither be able to support the above-mentioned report.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25291	Thank you. Otherwise, the report is for 2007 if you've lost sight of it. In conclusion, on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Tomo Galic, President of the Governing Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25292	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I will thank all those who have made good recommendations and comments, including criticisms on the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency Report in order for this report to be better in the future and we will do everything we can to include all your recommendations and good intentions in the next report and further work. On a number of issues during the debate, I will refer only to those issues which are within the competence of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. Therefore, in accordance with the applicable Energy Regulation Act and all other laws in the field of energy that regulate the rights and obligations of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. For that reason, I'll head to the gas area first. So in the area of the gas market because there were most actually issues and part of it I think that one information that was presented is not correct, so I would like to look back on that anyway. So there was talk that the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency did not bring a tariff system for the storage of natural gas. That's not true. So last year, the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency brought in the last tariff system it had to bring in last month, the natural gas storage tariff system. The tariff system was publicly presented at the beginning of the year, therefore also discussed with an energy entity dealing with energy activity, storage, natural gas, so INA and it waited for only one reason. Therefore, it was necessary in addition to this, in order for that tariff system to be adopted, it was necessary first to draw up all the other sub-legislative rules in the area of the gas market. Therefore, from the gas area defined by the new Gas Market Act adopted in 2007. So, when all these sublegal regulations were made, it was clear what the model of the gas market in the Republic of Croatia would look like, and only then could we definitely bring that tariff system. If this was necessary, it was also said that at the end of 2008, so they were brought on the basis of insight into all these sublegal regulations and amendments to the law on the gas market which were therefore necessary in order to apply the gas market model as imagined by the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and by the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, which is the proposer of the Regulation on the organisation of the gas market in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, according to the amendments and additions to this law now, compliance will be carried out with these amendments to all these sublaws and in, I believe, by the end of 2000, forgive me by the end of February of this year, so all these sublaws will therefore be completed, delivered to the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship in the adoption procedure. Because all these regulations are brought either by the Government of the Republic of Croatia or by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. So, and then the basic precondition for the formation of the gas market in the Republic of Croatia will be met, and therefore this is the adoption of all legal and sublegal regulations so that we can speak that we have a market, so that we have a premise, a necessary assumption, that is, a legal assumption for the formation of the gas market in the Republic of Croatia. Another important assumption is the organisational nature. Therefore, according to the Gas Market Act, all energy entities in the Republic of Croatia must be restructured, reorganised in accordance with that law and the process is ongoing and the vast majority of energy entities have done so. Unfortunately, this procedure has not yet been fully completed. However, all these activities are actually near their end. I believe that at the most recent time these last energy entities who have not done so will be able to do so and you will certainly get that information in the 2008 report. And the third thing to be able to talk about the gas market in the Republic of Croatia is a technical prerequisite. So we can't talk about the gas market in the Republic of Croatia when you have domestic production that can't satisfy complete consumption, so the need for natural gas, and we only have one supply route across the Republic, through the neighbouring Republic of Slovenia which actually has technical constraints and is not, its capacity actually does not allow under the given conditions sufficient supply of natural gas for all needs of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, because of this fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also approved the development plan for our company, the transport system operator, so Plinacro, which deals with the transport of natural gas, so as soon as possible to build a second supply route, so that it will connect the Republic of Croatia with the Republic of Hungary, so with the transport system of the Republic of Hungary with significantly higher capacity and then will actually achieve these minimum assumptions and preconditions in order to speak, therefore, about the gas market in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, an even more important object in this regard, so that we could, therefore, talk about the gas market is also the LNG terminal, so as a new independent source, a new source of energy. So, and then you actually have when you have enough energy, then we can, so when you have enough supply routes we can talk about a competition game, then more entities can appear on the market and then there shouldn't be any more problems with natural gas supply in the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, it is actually in law, so in the law of 2007, the gas market law that was passed in 2007 introduces this transitional period by 2011 because you cannot do it overnight, of course, and it takes a certain time and we believe that in 2011, all these conditions will be met and that after that price formation in the Republic of Croatia, we can say that it can be marketable. Of course, I'll also point to another detail. So that it is also in these legislations defined that for 2011, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia will no longer determine the price of energy. Therefore, neither the price of gas nor the tariff buyers nor the price of electricity for tariff buyers, but will be done by the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, through a public tender. Therefore, the market element is also introduced in that consumer category, which is in some way protected by law today in the determination of these prices precisely because there are no market mechanisms, so that there is no monopolous position to be used and these prices have risen unwarrantedly, in that sense by 2011, so these prices today, with the opinion of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, are confirmed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and will continue to establish market mechanisms for 2011, hence the law of supply and demand for a public tender to be prescribed by the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. Therefore, in the jurisdiction of setting prices for regulated energy activities which therefore have a natural monopoly will remain, for the time being, according to our legal decision in the jurisdiction of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, of course, with the prior expert opinion of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, which, of course, has adopted all the tariff systems and according to these tariff systems are now determined for the performance of these regulated, thus noting regulated energy activities. Then the second thing that was often mentioned are actually deadlines in which the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, in part, was referred to us, so whether it is possible to submit reports, so you Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency in its work can do so earlier. So I just want to point out that all the data shown in our reports is official data that we collect from all energy entities in the Republic of Croatia. They unfortunately cannot deliver these data to us before, at the earliest of the 5th month, because these are deadlines that bind them to the production of financial reports, so these deadlines are also linked to the Tax on Profits and to the Accounting Act and to the Company Act. So, they're definitely only at the end of the 4th month having these financial reports and we can actually get those data at the earliest in the 5th month, and most often we get them at the 6th month. Since these data are of course, since these reports, which we eventually publish in the form of such a catalogue, are also being sent to all the countries of the European Union. So we get the same information from them, so we make sure that it's actually official data because we can't afford to send us some information, which our companies wouldn't give us, so our companies would give us because it could cause inconceivable consequences, and in that sense we simply can't get ahead of you with the data, so with the report earlier. So the 7th month would be the earliest. However, if we happen that any of the subjects do not supply that data, I will inevitably push you into the fall and you will only in the autumn unfortunately receive these reports on which we in that segment simply do not have an impact. I would also like to point out that we also get information about the countries of the European Union, so we also get information from the European Regulators' Regulators' Association, and we are members of that association, so we can get data from only 4 months or 5 months and over, so the Statistical Office of the European Commission, so Eurostat, and in that segment, we are simply bound to show you as much quality as possible and our own data. We simply have to respect these deadlines and it inevitably extends us further. If you gave me a report without that data, you wouldn't actually have a real picture of the energy market in the Republic of Croatia, or markets in the environment, and I think it's actually the essence of this report, so you see on real and real data what's going on because this operational part of our job is not a problem, we can already tell you what we were doing yesterday because it's not controversial. However, I think that these data are key and that without them, the report would not actually be what it should be, and I think it would deny you important information, and I don't think we should allow it, and the law makes it very clear. So besides, I'd point to two more things. So there were talks about our participation in the creation of sublegal regulations from the energy sector, so the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency participates in the development of all and legal and sublegal regulations from the energy sector. Therefore, it is written to the competent ministry responsible for the production of these documents, so that we really participate in all these processes, and I must say that this is not an easy job at all because these documents, these regulations work for the first time in the Republic of Croatia, must be consistent with the directives of the European Union, therefore, and certainly require a very large engagement of people. In that sense, I think we really did everything in our power to make it as good as possible, so that these documents would be as good as possible. And yet, even so, but it is also a practice in all European Union countries, so the regulations change, so they are put into life, life shows that in a segment and it is necessary to change and it is common in the European Union countries, so both laws and regulations after relatively short periods of time, so for years, changes and additions are already being made, so that we do so, and in that sense I think that this is a good way to go on. As far as I'm concerned, and I'm only going to end up with this, so as far as the public appearance of HERA is concerned in various situations. So, we really stick to our powers that we have in accordance with the law and when it comes to the cost of carrying out energy activities, of course, that, we are, the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is responsible for the production of methodologies. In fact, it is a taste of pricing, but for the public it is a professional document, so it is a very high professional and professional document which unfortunately is not as interesting to the public as it is to talk about the price. Of course, since the final price is set by the Government and it is a single administrative procedure and in this sense we cannot appear in such a procedure as speakers, because the law makes it clear that the price is determined on the proposal of the ministry, with the previous opinion of the Agency and the final word in this regard has a Government and in that sense it would not be correct of us to appear in public, since ours is not the last. Of course, if that changes in the near future when the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency will have the last word of course, then we will bear all responsibility and explain all our moves to the public because it would then be such a second position. So, and that's why it may be that Hera doesn't appear so public today, although there is an interest, but we respect the current legal solution, and in this sense we don't want to act in accordance with the applicable legal solutions. There, so much for me. I thank you once again for all the recommendations and instructions and thank you again for your attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-28-0.u25293	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We move to the report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2007 with the achievement of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2007, the applicant is the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. The debate is closed. I am voting in conclusion in line with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, which reads: "The report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2007 with the achievement of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2007.". Please, who's in favor of accepting this report? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that the report has been accepted by a majority vote of 75 in, 42 against, and 1 abstention.
