ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34800	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Before I begin to state the reasons for the amendments and additions to this law, allow me to refer briefly to the circumstances and times in which the law was passed. At that time, the production of bread and pastries was about 2004, the production of bread and pastries in the Republic of Croatia before the law was passed, which meant that the annual consumption of bakery products per capita was about 32 kilograms, and daily only 0.088 kilograms. Real consumption was far higher, pointing to the fact that large quantities of bakery products are produced and sold outside the control of competent institutions, i.e. in the gray economy zone. The estimates were almost 40 to 50%. Which, of course, caused significant damage to the state budget. In order to improve the situation in this activity and to put most of the manufactured bakery products under control, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has tasked our ministry to produce this law and sublegal regulations that need to be regulated by the dairy bakery market. And it is precisely the law on special conditions for placing flour on the market, which was adopted in 2004 on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to combat the grey economy in the area of the milling bakery industry. By passing the Law on the placing of flour on the market, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the RES managed to make order on the market of flour, and grey economies in the production and transport of flour and dairy bakery products from year to year have been continuously reduced. The entry into force of this law established a register of mills, bakers, producers of intended mixtures and concentrates, as well as a register of importers of flour and intended mixtures and concentrates. And based on the issue of flour stamps issued in 2008, which were issued 41 million 166 thousand 640 pieces of different species, the ministry now has an accurate record of the production and import of flour and intended mixtures and concentrates. So here I'm just going to look back at this data that we really now have concrete amounts of our needs for these processed products, or goods, and it's roughly equivalent to 550 to 600,000 tons of wheat that are being debated extensively today. According to the 2008 State Inspectorate, inspectors totalled a thousand 875 inspection controls in the area of production and transport of bakery products. And they found 582 violations, which means the number of violations in relation to the number of controls was 31%. The percentage in 2007 was 38%, and in 2006 as much as 48%. The result is that 55 bakerys were closed during 2008 in 2007. 105, and in 2006, when there were more of these violations than 177 for reasons of non-compliance with this law and its implementing rules. The presented data show that the grey economy has not been completely eliminated, but it is also evident that the process has been reduced year by year. And one of the reasons why amendments and additions to this law are made is that importers of flour, intended mixtures and concentrates were not obliged to submit reports of imported flour quantities to the Ministry, and therefore the supplement was necessary in order to comply with the quantities of flour recorded from imports with the records of stamps issued. Further reason for the changes arises from the findings of the State Inspectorate in the control of bakerys from which the need for enlargement is seen in the recording of the quantities of flour used for bakeries and other products in which the composition is entered and flour, and so far it has not been taxed, for example, cakes and certain types of products, pies or similar products, for the sake of this complete compliance of the quantities recorded in the register of the consumption of flour which is popularly referred to as the KEUB. Furthermore, the further amendment stems from the inspection practice and recommendations contained in the State Inspectorate's report that in the inspection procedure and in the criminal provisions of the law, the exception is that the measure to seal the facility in cases where the manufacturer of bakery products that have violated the provisions of the law is closed for 30 days in these new circumstances will not be implemented in so far as, within 5 days, the evidence that the deficiencies identified have been removed as well as evidence of the payment of the fine of 30 thousand kuna as sanctions in favour of the state budget. And in the same way that these sanctions are carried out by the State Inspectorate in catering and commercial facilities in accordance with the laws on trade, or the Law on Hostage Activity. We believe that these amendments and additions to the law will contribute to better control and control of the production and transport of dairy products, that they will further affect the reduction of the grey economy in the sector in question and we believe that under these circumstances they will be one of the significant anti-recession moves taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It would be for the introduction of everything and I had already received the amendments of the Committee on Law, which is first and foremost here to say nomotechnical nature and as such we can accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34801	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34802	Thank you. Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. By applying the provisions of the Act on specific conditions for the placing of flour on the market through the labelling system of flour stamps, the production and import of wheat, rye and corn flour and finished mixtures and concentrates for bakery products have been supervised so that the grey economy in this activity is reduced to the least possible measure. As a logical sequence, the need for the adoption of a legal framework for the placing under the supervision and production and transport of bakery products was demonstrated where, unfortunately, due to the lack of rules on consumption or "randman" flour, there was the possibility of producing and transporting significant quantities of bakery products without financial supervision and which, unfortunately, certain entities have benefited greatly. Therefore, the Croatian Parliament adopted November 17, 2005. The Act amending and supplementing the Act on specific conditions for the placing of flour on the market and which entered into force on 6 December 2005. The most important amendment to the Law on specific conditions for the placing of flour on the market was the amended paragraph 3 of the article under which the Minister responsible for agricultural affairs provides for the maximum quantities of flour to be used for the production of certain bakery products and the way in which the records are kept. By virtue of the powers laid down in this provision, the Secretary-General also adopted a Regulation on the quantity of flour used for the production of certain bakery products which began to apply on 1 January 2006. The main objective of both laws and regulations was therefore to curb the gray economy in the area mentioned. It is evident from the Annual Report of the State Inspectorate for 2008 that in a thousand 875 inspection controls came and found 582 violations, or that is 31% of total surveillance. It's less than 7% compared to 2007 or 17% less than in 2006. The amendments and additions to the law are due to the fact that importers of flour, intended mixtures and concentrates were not obliged to submit reports of imported quantities of flour to the Ministry, so that, of course, the imported amount of flour could not be matched with the stamps issued. I would add here that too much time has passed and that we should have introduced that provision much earlier as a change in the law. Further reason for the changes arises from the findings of the State Inspectorate in the control of bakerys from which the need to extend coverage in the recording of the quantities of flour used for bakeries and other products in which the composition enters flour in order to comply with the quantities recorded in the register of flour consumption. Furthermore, the amendment stems from the inspection practice and recommendations contained in the 2008 State Inspectorate Report that in the inspection procedure and in the criminal provisions of the law, it is possible to make it exceptional that the measure to seal the facility in respect of which the manufacturer of the bakery products who broke the provisions of the law closes the baker's plant for 30 days will not be implemented unless, within 5 days of delivery, evidence that the deficiencies identified have been removed as well as proof of the payment of the cash amount of 30 thousand kuna in favour of the State budget and in the same way that these sanctions are implemented in the catering and commercial facilities. The representatives of the HNS Club will support these amendments and amendments to the Law on the placing of flour on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34803	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34804	Thank you very much. Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, fellow parliamentary representatives. Five years ago, the Croatian Parliament passed the Law on special conditions for placing flour on the market. We can see this document as a milestone because by adopting this law, we have established a mechanism for dealing with the grey economy in the area of flour and bakery products. So that law kind of hit the basis for dealing with the gray economy. In accordance with the law, a Regulation on the marking of flour with registration stamps was adopted, the Register of mills, manufacturers of intended mixtures and concentrates and also the Register of importers of flour, mixture and concentrates was established. All of this enabled the introduction of order on the market and enabled economic inspection to be fully quality control. A significant contribution to curbing the grey economy and assistance in inspection has also enabled the adoption in 2006 of the Regulation on the quantities of flour for the production of certain bakery products and the introduction of a obligation for bakers to keep registers of the consumption of flour so-called flour. KEUB for the purpose of monitoring the consumption of flour and manufactured quantities of bakery products. It can be said that in rare cases, in which segment of agriculture and food industry we have so systematically and systematically located critical points in which there was room for fraud and so we have imposed records and procedures which are supposed to establish a market order and effective inspection supervision. As this system has shown itself best in practice at the same level of inspection surveillance, the number of infringements is reduced year after year. This law, these amendments and additions are an additional improvement of the system. With these amendments and additions to the law, importers of flour intended for use and concentrates receive a new obligation they have not had so far. Therefore, they have to submit reports on imported quantities of flour, which ensures that the ministry balances the quantities of flour from imports with the records of stamps issued. It also increases the coverage of flours used for the wider range of bakeries and other products in the form of an entry and flour. The amendment introduced in connection with the sealing and closure of Croatian Democratic Community facilities is held that the proposed changes are more appropriate than the existing system, that, as in some other activities and laws, the system of punishment is still tempered towards producers and that the emphasis is on removing shortcomings and the execution of sanctions, i.e. financial commitments to the state budget. All these changes contributed to reducing the grey economy and increasing competition in the flour market. Due to all this, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34805	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Representative Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34806	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. On the basis of statistical data, the production of bread and pastries to the Republic of Croatia before the adoption of the Law on special conditions for the placing of flour on the market amounted to about 145 thousand tonnes, meaning that the annual consumption of bakery products per capita was 32.2 kg and daily only 0,088 kg. Real consumption was far higher, pointing to the fact that large quantities of bakery products are produced and sold outside the control of competent institutions or on black. In order to improve the situation in this activity and to put most of the manufactured bakery products under control, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has tasked the Ministry of Agriculture to draft laws and regulations governing the market for dairy bakery products. The law on special conditions for the placing of flour on the market was adopted in 2004 on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and in order to combat the grey economy in the area of the milling industry. By passing the Law on special conditions for the placing of flour on the market, the Government and the RES managed to create order on the market of flour and the grey economy in the production and transport of flour and dairy bakery products from year to year was continuously reduced. The entry into force of this law established a register of mills, bakers, producers of intended mixtures and concentrates, as well as a register of importers of flour, intended mixtures and concentrates. Based on the issue of flour stamps issued in 2008, which were issued 41 million 166,640 pieces of different species, the ministry has accurate records of the production and import of flour, intended mixtures and concentrates. According to the 2008 State Inspectorate, inspectors totalled a thousand 875 inspection controls in the area of manufacturing and transport of bakery products and identified 582 infringements. Which means the number of violations in relation to the number of controls was 31%. This percentage was 38 in 2006 and 38 in 2006. 48%. During 2008, inspectors closed 55 bakerys while the number of closed bakerys in 2007 was 105, in 2006. 177 for failure to comply with the provisions of the Law on specific conditions for the placing of flour on the market as well as the sublaws. The presented data show that the grey economy has not been completely eliminated, but it is also evident that this percentage has been reduced year by year. One of the reasons why Amendments and additions to the Law on specific conditions for placing flour on the market are that importers of flour, mixed flour and concentrate were not obliged to submit reports to the Ministry on imported quantities of flour, therefore the supplement was necessary in order to comply with the quantities of flour recorded from imports, with all records of stamps issued. Further reason for the changes arises from the findings of the State Inspectorate, in the controls of bakerys from which the need to expand covers in the recording of the quantities of flour used for bakeries and other products in which the composition is entered and flour, means cakes, pies and the like, in order to comply with the quantities recorded in the register of flour consumption. Furthermore, the further amendment stems from the inspection of the practice and recommendations contained in the State Inspectorate's report that in the inspection procedure and in the criminal provisions of the law, it is possible that the measure to seal the facility in respect of which the manufacturer of the bakery products who broke the provisions of the law closes the baker's plant for 30 days will not be implemented unless, within 5 days, evidence that the deficiencies identified have been removed as well as proof of the payment of the cash amount of 30 thousand kuna in favour of the State budget and in the same way that these sanctions are implemented in the catering and commercial... I believe that these amendments to the law will contribute to better control and control of the production and transport of dairy products, and therefore I will support the adoption of this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34807	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34808	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. Let me support this activity with a few words and it is related to amendments to the law on special conditions for placing flour on the market. Because there are certainly reasons to establish a certain market order. Five years ago, as stated in the material of the adoption of the Law on special conditions for the placing of flour on the market, the Government made a certain order in the market for flour with that law, namely the adoption of that law. However, the establishment of such order was also an obligation and the need because what was happening on the market must have damaged in some ways two types of wheat producers, as well as consumers or consumers, the population who used bread or certain flour products. Because it was always known, in a way, the sufficient amount of wheat to be produced in Croatia, we spoke about 600,000. However, the issue of the consumption of flour has never been within some frameworks that would say that the wheat was both processed and consumed in Croatia. What happened then, and what was often pointed out in various lots and our wheat producers, as well as the difference between kilograms of wheat, kilograms of flour, or kilograms of bread produced. It was also a time when there was the opening of the bakery, when it was one of the most profitable productions, and that was why there was a certain disproportionateity with the producers, but also with the consumers of flour. What happened certainly was that the larger quantities of flour and illegal or over some border, especially from neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, were coming to Croatia and on the black market, in some ways they ended up in production, and there was a certain profit among those who produced it and thus created an extra profit that was normally not in the function of the wheat producer, but also of the consumer but also of the individual using it. That's why the introduction of the market order five years ago, the creation of a flour stamp, I think it was one break-in moment that began to save this thing in terms of using that flour and that part of the black market that was then on a high level, that is, the price was also untouchable. It was neither known how much it was, nor since it was flour, but it was mostly bread that came out of that production as a final product, which was very little to do, at that price of this bread, and at the same time, individuals made good money. The second thing that has been recorded, and which should probably continue to be implemented further, is the question of the quality of these products, the quantity of flour or the quality of that flour used in the bakery production and the way in which the final product, bread, pastry or such, come from sufficient quantities and flours that are and the quality that they prescribe. I think here's this next proposed, these proposed changes to the special terms of the law, will probably also lead to one greater benefit to be done in a quality way and that production is taking place. In addition, there is another question, the issue of the hygiene minimum in the production and use of this flour in bakeries because we are always aware that in today’s day many have not yet fully mastered that hygiene minimum and that we have often and recorded such bakeries that should certainly not exist as such and produce food. Normally, it's not the same in an orderly, hygienicly correct bakery that has certain engineers, certain people from the profession that deal with, from the food profession primarily, with this production and hold one control that is not the same as individuals where unfortunately we have the opportunity to see that there that hygiene minimum is far from satisfying and that certain things are happening right now to find themselves in bread and certain foreign objects that certainly do not belong there. In the end, I think that this, these changes that are here, they only fall into a few articles, but surely they're actually going to change a lot. And finally, let me say, surely we should be and give one sufficient improvement in that production, in the control of that production, but also in financial malversions. And for that reason, I think that in this way not only do we protect the consumer as a consumer of the final, but also a producer who in this way, if in a transparent way, the price of wheat is translated into the price of flour or the price of bread, I think that in that way the producers of the wheat themselves, which is certainly our goal, will also profit and receive that amount of funds for the value of the goods they have produced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34809	Thank you. We have one replica. Mr. Representative Goran Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34810	Thank you very much. Mr. Bodakosh, you said that these changes will also probably contribute to the improvement. So, this particular word of yours probably made me lean on a replica. In fact, the grey economy in the field of bakery products still works very well. We all know that, because here's the indicator that almost a third of this production is still in that sphere. It certainly imposes a further effort primarily on the inspection because these 1800 and some of their reviews over the course of one year, the question is how much is it, how little is it. Of course, this area is economically important, but the area of sanitary is even more important, but I would point to a question related to this Article 2 paragraph 5. So with the main change regarding the possibility that whoever was caught in the offence would pay 30 thousand kuna for five days and not be sealed with a room or place where he made bread or, for example, bakery products. It is not the same if it is a village bakery that makes 500 kilograms of flour a day or a bakery industry that dozens of tons of flour during the day through its production. What about those who frequently break the law in a way that over the years, they are repeatedly warned of breaking the law? is there any additional sanctions or will some such as large producers use this particular variant as an alternative for legal mode of work? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34811	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34812	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Secretary of State. Comrade Heffer, what you say about the grey economy is, unfortunately, present in Croatia not only in this production, but there are still some productions that are struggling with this very gray market, or production that is not under control. Such sanctions, which should go towards those who are not dealing with them, or do not comply with the quality and requirements they should have, normally, that the inspection of that market inspection is normal, economic inspection, so that such conditions should be created through the sanitary inspection as little as possible. Normally, both the legal provisions and the legal incentives that arise and which we bring to this House that they as such also have one, will have then and those inspections one greater support, and we will also tell the people, those producers that normally cannot at this point when the state and the whole of our country are in difficulty in one non-transparent way to obtain certain wealth, or certain profit. That's what I think with that hygienic part, it should also be emphasized, and it'll probably give some results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34813	Thank you. And finally, State Secretary Mr. Stephen Mikolcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34814	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I, above all, thank you for the discussions you had, and even more so for the support you gave us for these amendments and supplements to remove the shortcomings in the law and it absolutely fulfils its purpose and regulates this area of milling-precious products, i.e. flour. I also thank you for these remarks, but here I would like to replicate. Hang on to these inspection controls. There was only one with me to say segment in the sector was the subject of supervision, and that was the case of bakeries. It was seen here to say in 30% of these controls that certain shortcomings were greater or less natural. That doesn't mean 30% is here to say the gray economy in this segment. I was saying that we now absolutely have 40,000 tons of flour that are Croatian needs and that it is trafficked legally, that it is fully recorded and that it is a proposal for those quantities of wheat that we are talking about today that our needs are from 550 to 600,000 tonnes. I now, from the point of view, here are the hygiene conditions that you've been talking about, I can say by adopting new provisions so to say the legal gains of the European Union of aquis that have been transposed into our legislation, above all by the Food and Veterinary Law, etc. The hygiene package defined me to say "control" in the food production from field to table. We have already gone significantly ahead in a way that we are absolutely in certain segments if it is about food business entities, above all animal origin, we went to the analysis of each of these entities individually, to assess its risk possibly here are possible such shortcomings which may have consequences for this food not being healthy etc. And each individual has been evaluated in some way and it has been determined that I should say a risk group or category and frequency control. And here we have a zorna specimen here. I have to say that information, here's what I didn't say in the opening debate. Of these 400,000 milling flours that traffic legally 70% of the flour grinds 10 millers, 10 of the largest millers, and in the register of millers we have 193 subjects. So now we've seen where possibly this risk group of entities in this sector is and they're going to be kind of focused here and ours to say so in terms of inspection surveillance that we're going to be doing in here in the future, so to speak to segments and intentions that you're talking about here. Well, I think that's enough. Once again, I thank you for the support you've shown us and for the changes and the addition of this law. Thank you very much. And the amendment said I accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34815	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. 14, Final proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Act on specific conditions for placing flour on the market, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 385. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee, which was adopted by the proposing representative. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure don't vote on him. I am voting on the final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on specific conditions for the placing of flour on the market. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The law was adopted by most votes, 101 votes for and 1 abstention, nothing against along with the amendments accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34818	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is therefore a Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the “Civil Protection Community Mechanism” signed in Zagreb on 17 December 2008, by Mr Trut, Director of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue and 17 January 2009 in Brussels Karl Falkenberg, Director of the European Commission's General Environment Administration. The signing, in particular, of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community in the field of prevention, i.e. the mitigation of the consequences of natural and civilizational disasters, and the implementation of measures to protect against earthquakes, floods, fires, pollution, radiological dangers, industrial disasters initiated by signing and confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the financial instrument for civil protection. In order to continue to cooperate successfully, to increase the number of activities, and in particular to fully harmonise the protection and rescue system of the Republic of Croatia with a civil protection system of the European Union. This law requires that the Memorandum of Understanding be confirmed between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the "Community Civil Protection Mechanism". Therefore, by confirming this memo, Croatia will become an even more effective component of the European system of protection against civilian disasters. The implementation of this law will not require additional funding from the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34819	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Mato Biljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34820	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a bill to confirm the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Civil Protection Mechanism. At the very beginning, I would like to emphasise that 30 countries participate in this mechanism, of which all the members of the European Union plus Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. The Government of the Republic of Croatia took the decision at a session held on 17 September 2008 to initiate a procedure for the conclusion of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Civil Protection Mechanism. On 17 December 2008, the Director of the Directorate for Protection and Rescue signed the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Community Civil Protection Mechanism, and the Director of the European Commission's General Environment Administration signed the same on 16 January 2009. The main objective of the adoption of this law is to confirm the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community in the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Community Civil Protection Mechanism whose implementation is expected to further improve mutual cooperation in the area of prevention, i.e. the mitigation of the consequences of natural and civilization disasters, in particular the planning and implementation of measures to protect against earthquakes, floods, fires, pollution, radiological dangers and industrial disasters. In addition to these reasons, there is a need for activity in this area to be regulated by a bilateral agreement, a Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community. The Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Community Civil Protection Mechanism sets out the question of the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the conditions of cooperation and prevention of disasters and cooperation in the field of mutual notification of threatening disasters, the resulting disasters and their consequences. Cooperation in the field of educational protection, rescue and assistance and exchange of scientific and technical information relevant for the protection of disasters. Conditions applicable to participation in the training programme, including common courses, exercises and exchange system, workshops,... pilot projects, coordination teams and experts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Access to services to the Monitoring and Information Centre, common communications and information systems in emergency situations, support in obtaining access to equipment and means of transport, including the provision of additional means of transport necessary to ensure rapid response in emergency situations, major exchanges as well as other activities. In line with the above, the HDZ Club supports this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34821	Thank you very much. We also have another application for an individual hearing, a respected representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34822	Thank you very much. Here, quite briefly, since it is a law that is problematic, or treats matter that I think we should accept and that there are no controversial things in it, and that the adoption of this law will greatly contribute to better and prevention, but also to the need to combat any natural disasters. However, whenever we receive a document bearing this name and content in the field of civil protection, some of us, and I personally raise some questions. However, I must also say that I expected, given those who have signed this agreement, that we will today, because I would prefer to ask the Director of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, rather than the Secretary of State what I am interested in. But I also have to say that I expected today to have the introduction of a new director, not a director, but a Secretary of State for International Integration, at least that's how Mr. Faber was presented. But I don't think Mr. Buconjic will be able to answer those questions. First of all, I think it's a key question. This law says no additional resources are needed. Now, given what this law treats from common education, training, the common information system, the exchange of information, it is obvious that it will require some kind of, not some sort of, but material means. I know that it is foreseen that this segment in the field of civil protection is financed under an agreement signed in 2007, so on financing and a financial instrument of civil protection, but I am not sure that the funds for this have been secured and that these funds have been paid. So, if it isn't, then maybe something might change in the meantime, then that should indicate it. That's the only thing that seems controversial to me. However, I would also now take advantage of the opportunity, what exactly is with the civil protection system in the narrow sense of the word? We definitely have a law that has become obsolete, which does not meet the requirements of time or of what some modern trends are both in nature and climate conditions etc., etc. In fact, they're forcing us. I'm interested and it's actually crucial to my question, is the ministry, or the state administration, thinking about developing a civil protection system in the narrow sense that the law now knows, or is it going to stay on this concept that's being discussed and let civil protection as an organization die out? I think it's a key question because then it gives one whole other dimension, the dimension of the Protection and Rescue Authority. What I believe the Croatian public is also interested in and I will end up there, and that is whether unlike earlier fire-fighting seasons, the Protection and Rescue Authority has been put into operation? It may seem to someone stupid, banally, I don't know what kind of question, but we remember having in the past tourist seasons fire or fire seasons situations when we couldn't get on the phone to 112 and when the people who run this system were on vacation. No, we all know what I'm talking about, so I'm not opening that question again. So I'm actually interested in what's going to happen to civil protection? Do we even have this concept since we have this outdated law? Thank you very much. So it is not disputed that this law will be supported and that it should be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34823	Thank you. The Republic has a respected representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34824	My dear colleague, Lucin, you've really been a very important problem. For example, the Republic of Croatia is a rare country that does not have an effective nuclear accident plan. We have two institutions dealing with this problem, the State Department for the Protection of Air and the State Department for Nuclear Safety. However, both institutions do not have an operation that should be put into operation in the event of a real accident. This should be done by civil protection, but unfortunately the interaction between these three institutions is very, very weak if not non-existent. And we hope that during this reconstruction of the government, according to the information available and according to the requirements of the HItro-cut, these two institutions will be joined into one, so that at least one future law will probably cooperate more effectively with civil protection and indeed create an effective plan and programme of action in the event of a nuclear accident, as the Republic of Croatia acts a little autistic as if there is no nuclear line from Zagreb, and the more the nuclear power plant is 50% owned by the Republic of Croatia. So I suppose the Republic of Croatia also has direct powers to intervene in the security of the facility. But the reverse should also make infrastructure on its own territory so that all of this is carried out in accordance with international practice and regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34825	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is represented by Sima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34826	My colleague Franic, you're quite right. But you've only touched one segment that could be said to happen rarely but when it happens then it's really a disaster. However, I am more concerned that I have a feeling and some knowledge that we are not in that segment and conditions when the flood is and when there are, say, great fires. Let's say, these agreements mean I don't know that in Hungary there's some kind of flood, that you can, based on this agreement, I don't know 10 or 5 thousand bags. I am interested in whether there is material in civil protection warehouses etc.? So that's the issue of civil protection. 'Do you see, I'm convinced that you're protecting our segment of civil protection and this one if you want not a bad concept that's not well-developed, so management, protection and rescue management would not happen to us. Or if they did, we'd have clear and spot-on answers to that. And not after two years, they actually pulled that story away from the simplest family of those who died there and left the general Croatian public to the very least in doubt. I think this problem would finally be systematically devoted and that system would be built as a whole. Because we live in a bit of a strange time. So I won't mention terrorism, etc. I'll mention what's happening to us more and more often, and that's floods. Here we are now, thank God some slight earthquakes, don't give God something more serious. We simply need to be ready and responsible for such challenges, and we do not seem to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34827	Thank you very much. And we'll hear another debate, dear representative Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34828	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a draft proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Community Civil Protection Mechanism with the Final Proposal for the Law. The signing of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Community Civil Protection Mechanism is a continuation of the cooperation of the Republic of Croatia and the European Community in the area of prevention, i.e. the mitigation of the consequences of natural and civilization disasters, in particular in the planning and implementation of measures to protect against earthquakes, floods, fires, pollution, radiological dangers, industrial disasters initiated by the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia and the Financial Instrument for Civil Protection, which was visible from People's News No 3/08. The State Protection and Rescue Authority has been installing European standards in its action since 2005. Experiences were gained among other regular active participations in working meetings and professional forums, where best European practice was collected. Director of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue Mr. Trut has also promoted the quality of Croatian protection and rescue systems as deputy director. It should be noted that the Republic of Croatia hosted a major civil field exercise "IDASA 2007". as part of NATO even before the full membership of the Republic of Croatia in NATO, which was held in May 2007. The exercise was one of the largest civilian exercises ever held within the NATO alliance. Such a proactive approach to and within the frameworks of the European Union has resulted in the development of Croatia's cooperation with European civil protection. The first participation of the team of the Republic of Croatia National Protection and Rescue Administration in the EU field exercise "Humorix" in 2008 was particularly praised by... Directors of the Civil Protection Sector of the European Commission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Co-operation will continue during 2009 in the EU field action... 2009 [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In a consortium with the German Federal Agency for Technical Assistance and the Department for Protection and Rescue of the Republic of Slovenia, the State Administration for Protection and Rescue has applied for the European Commission's tender for the main Environmental Protection and Planning Board for the implementation of civil training for civil protection modules which has been acquired in the competition and has been successfully implemented for several months. For this reason, it is necessary to welcome further development of cooperation and an increase in the number of activities and, in particular, to fully harmonise the protection and rescue system of the Republic of Croatia with the Civil Protection System of the European Union and to confirm this Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Civil Protection Mechanism, in accordance with Article 18. Laws on the conclusion of interstate and international agreements that are regulated in our legislation. The implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding will not require additional funding from the state budget, as they are already planned by the National Protection and Rescue Authority in 2009. I find it good to accept this bill, and I will accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34829	Thank you, Mr. Representative. Here's what I'm saying, and I'm concluding a debate on this final draft of the Memorandum Confirmation Act. And we will vote on the final proposal when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34830	15. Final draft law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the "Community Civil Protection Mechanism". It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 379. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the "Community Civil Protection Mechanism". Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was passed unanimously with 105 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34831	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. - Proposals for decisions on the resolution of the former and the appointment of a new member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Government proposed those decisions on the basis of Article 16. Law on energy regulation. You took the motion itself into the boxes. I ask the motionary's representative if he would like to further explain the proposal? Mr. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economy Miljenko Pavlakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34832	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Croatian Regulatory Agency, under the Law on Energy Regulatory Activities and clearly on a proposal on a proposal from the Government, asks the Parliament to confirm the President and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. Since Dr Erald Marovac's term of office is due to expire on 30 September 2009 in accordance with Article 16 of the same law, we propose that you accept his resolution and also on the basis of the same Article 2 to be appointed as a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, Ms. Loridana Smoljanic, who, with his long-standing experience, will thus contribute to the development and further activities of the agency itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34833	Thank you very much. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. And again the vote notice when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34834	We're going to the 16th point. Proposals for decisions on the resolution of the former and the appointment of a new member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to resolve Dr. Eralda Banovac, former member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This motion for a decision was accepted by most votes, 100 votes for, 3 abstentions, nothing against. And two. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint Loridana Smoljanic, a new member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This decision was adopted by a majority of votes, 98 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 1 against the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34835	The following is the point of today's consolidated agenda - Proposal for a decision on the selection of two judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, Proposer: Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System The Proposer is the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, and the Committee did so and proposed this decision on the basis of Article 125. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You received the materials by mail. I would like to ask the applicant's representative if he would like to further explain the proposal. The Honorable Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System and Vice-President of the Assembly, Mr Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34836	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. As Mr. Vice-President presented by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System submitted to the Croatian Assembly a proposal for a decision to elect two judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, a proposal for a decision that was decided by the majority at the session held on 18 June 2009 and proposed to the Croatian Parliament to decide on the choice of two judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia at the session of the Parliament. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System proposes to the Croatian Parliament a proposal for a list of candidates entering the narrow choice for judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and to Matu Arlović, Antonija Kovacic, Antun Palarić and Agatha Racan. In accordance with Article 9(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, On 10 October 2008, the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the President of the Constitutional Court, informed the Croatian Parliament that on 11 April 2009, the term of office of the judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and that of Agatha Racan, Mario Kosa and Željko Potočnjak expired. At its meeting on 3 April 2009, the Croatian Parliament adopted a Decision on the election of Miroslav Šeparovic as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Because all the remaining two judges of the Constitutional Court were not filled in, two other judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia were to be elected. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 6(1) The constitutional law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed that the procedure for the candidate of the Constitutional Court judges and the proposal for elections of the Croatian Parliament is carried out by the Board of the Croatian Parliament responsible for the Constitution. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament referred in accordance with Article 6. Constitutional law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia calls for judicial institutions, law schools, the Bar Association, legal associations, political parties, other legal persons and individuals to propose candidates for the selection of two judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The call was issued on 10 April 2009 in "The People's Newspaper". The deadline for application was 60 days and the last day of application was 9 June 2009. The call indicated what candidates should attach to résumés, which documentation and compliance with the constitutional law of the prescribed conditions. The candidates for 11 candidates Mate Arlovic, Branko Šimek, Miljenko Đuni, Kate Gojtan, Jadranka Kalebić, Antonija Kovacic, Tonči Majice, Ante Matic, Antun Palarić, Agatha Racan and Dalia Tomoz arrived on time. At a session held on 18 June 2009, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System found that 11 candidates submitted their applications in due time and the committee decided by majority vote that the candidates were entitled to ten candidates, but that neither was the rightful candidacy of Ante Matic, who decided by the majority vote, that he was not valid because he had not submitted evidence to fulfil the conditions for selecting judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia prescribed by the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee on the Constitution shall be in accordance with Article 6(4). The Constitutional Law held a public conversation with those candidates and drawn up a list of candidates entering the narrow selection of the Constitutional Court, with the fact that the list of candidates normally contains more candidates than the number of judges of the Constitutional Court to be elected. He invited all the candidates to talk. After the talks were held, the committee discussed how to establish a list of candidates who are investing in a narrow election for judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Proposal for a Vice-President of the Committee of Josip Lek and a member of the Committee, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, to refer the Committee to the Croatian Assembly of the list of candidates at which there will be all 10 candidates who meet the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia the prescribed terms of the Committee were not accepted because they voted for the proposal, two members of the Committee and 7 were against it. The proposal by the chairman of the Vladimir Seks Board to make the list of candidates entering the narrow election for two judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia the four candidates for which it votes by a secret vote of the most board members accepted the majority of votes by 7 and 2 votes against. Afterwards, a secret vote found that candidates received the following number of votes. Mato Arlović 9, Branko Chizek Zero, Miljenko Giunio Zero, Kata Gojta Zero, Jadranka Kalebić Zero, Antonija Kovacic 6, Tonči Tica 2, Antun Palarić 6, Agatha Racan 3, Dalia Tomaš Zero. It follows that the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament proposes to the Croatian Assembly a proposal for a list of candidates entering a narrow selection for two judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and this: Matu Arlovic, Antonija Kovačić, Antun Palarić and Agatha Racan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34837	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am now opening a debate on the proposal for a decision to elect two judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The first registered club is the SDP club and Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34838	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. If the citizens knew what it is and what it means by the Constitutional Court, I am convinced that they would rebel in this way, the choice of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The constitutional position of the Constitutional Court is to guarantee the rule of law in the Republic of Croatia. Not to wink left, not to the right, not to the grandmother or uncles, but to seek to introduce all the principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia into the life of the country's state and citizens. Are we satisfied with the work of the Constitutional Court? Does his constitutional position feel in introducing the principle of rule of law in the Republic of Croatia, a legal institution? Is the appointment of judges completely transparent? Is it satisfactory to check in front of the public? Is the choice of judges even in the formal sense that this is intended not to be selected simultaneously and the reasons why they are not chosen simultaneously are they achieved? In fact, the Constitutional Law provides that judges of the Constitutional Court are not all elected simultaneously for reasons not to be too strong a political influence or a political interest has been achieved only one political option that is then in power. The second reason is for the Constitutional Court to be free of the influence of the political, influence of the option in power that the mandate of the Constitutional Court judges lasts for 8 years. The third reason is that the Constitutional Judge can hardly be resolved at all. But whether it's all this way of electing constitutional judges confirms. I don't think so. I think that's the opposite. Namely, how does that happen? By ruling first in the pre-election or pre-scheduling of the invitation to tender, they see the needs. When they establish their needs, the staff and others then question a call for a Constitutional Court judge. That's what the practice confirmed. So that the public question, quality, morality, strutality, ends up on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, which is based on the principle that the Assembly is structured. In other words, political will is more important than the public. And the Constitutional Court must not serve any political option. That this is how we have very fresh examples of the appointment of Judge Banic to date running for Judge Mr. Palaric. If we were to conduct a poll in the Parliament now, and not if we were to give it to the citizens to declare such a candidate in a regular procedure, then we could certainly determine that Palaric served one policy as secretary of the state administration's office. Many of his decisions caused no conflict between politicians but a conflict between lawyers. And even if that consternation were once overcome, Mr. Palaric and his office would also lead to unpreciseness. So he would interpret the same cases in different ways depending on the need for the political option that is involved. I think the very running of fellow Palaric in the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system is a proof of the thesis I present here. That the need for human resources solutions within HDZ before the tender itself was suggested that Palaric was a good solution. Given the party discipline, what could be expected? That he'd be run for what happened. Can we expect him to be elected now? We can if it would not be estimated that it is too much dusting in the eyes of the Croatian public. There have been proposals, and they are standing now, and on the Committee on the Constitution they have even declared that they are fully in accordance with the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, that at least I should say, the whole process of the elections is carried out in the Parliament, in the Croatian Parliament, that both circles, so to speak, will be in Parliament. The number of candidates who receive the required majority in the second round will be elected, so all candidates who are doing so now formally meet the requirements of general and special, come before the MPs and decide on all of them by conscience. The need to directly influence the political will and party obedience has maintained the principle that in the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system the number of candidates is reduced and thus withdraws the Parliament's right to decide in the first round all candidates who meet both the formal and the actual conditions of the competition in the Assembly. So, in fact, the Croatian public is mutilated with all the elements of all the candidates who met the conditions for selecting a judge of the Constitutional Court. Once again, given that this procedure here will be said in a formal sense satisfied, I will say that in a political sense everything allowed by law even in a political sense is not fair. In the end, I am convinced that the Croatian public, once again, has been mutilated because of this persistent choice of judges of the Constitutional Court, relative speed without the possibility of checking in front of the Croatian public of all candidates, which is what the practice has shown, so we had a choice of judges who did not pay taxes, the choice of judges who did not have conditions or the choice of judges who were politically similar only to the ruling ones. Therefore, I must say that the dissatisfaction in the SDP has been stressed so much that we will have to ask for a major change, we have been waiting for the amendment of the Constitution, but since the ruling amendments to the Constitution are not responsible for taking place in the process and for the longer term, we will have to ask that even before the amendments to the Constitution change the constitutional law. Because the function, role and jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court in the next period will become stronger, stronger and quite certain that the Constitutional Court will be given the role to control the constitutionality of the Croatian Parliament's decisions immediately. For this reason, I would like to stress once again that this is the way in which the Constitutional Court judges are elected to harm the development of the Republic of Croatia and to establish the democratic standards to which we are verbally calling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34839	Thank you very much. Before the next club, one notice for members and members of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. The 32nd session of the committee scheduled for today is postponed at 13:30 and the session will be held on Thursday, July 9th at 9.30 am at Janko Draskovic's hall with the same agenda. Now it's the turn of the HNS club, the esteemed representative of Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34840	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Obviously, we have been warning this for a long time that the institution itself has been in crisis with the election of a constitutional judge in the Republic of Croatia. We are joining our colleague Lek's assessment that she has come to such a point that she is demanding important changes and supplementing the regulations governing the area. The choice of constitutional judges turns into a demonstration of power, a demonstration of the absolute political power of the ruling majority, which is not in the first place the highest standards, criteria and reputation of candidates but infrequently political interests, the parties' interests from which it is argued that political pressure can be assessed from such a position. For years, the public has been looking at it, and for years this House has been troubled, but nothing seems to prevent it. Now the rule has become political scandals, or scandals, that say that this topic is not seriously approached, but day-to-day political. The practice that has produced several scandals so far, I will mention two cases, the Vukojevic case and the Banic case, but it also prepares a third case for us, which is the Palaric case, is simply unsustainable. In the case of Mr. Palaric, whom I mentioned several times after this pay phone as a major magnau of administrative and legal chaos in Croatia, I promised him that I would talk about it here today, administrative and legal practice in Croatia has been practically the most humiliating, if you want the immersion, right in his term. In office while assistant minister in charge of the area, in office while the secretary of state is in charge of the area. Let us remember the major scandals of political corruption in 2005 and 2006 that caused such pressure from the interested public that the government had to disband the county congregations in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, Požeko-Slavonski, City Council of Slavonski Brod, City Council of Velika Gorica and some other municipal councils. But let us also remember that the same thing happened to the authorities in Karlovac and Sisak, however, there were no representative bodies disbanded there. It is amazing that this wave of political corruption carried information and doubts about huge amounts. It mentioned 350,000 euros in bribes. Nothing ever happened, but after that were initiated some changes that defined the way the councilman could resign and nothing more. Together, we believed that the new regulations of the election of mayors, mayors and mayors would be defended by political corruption. It turns out that's not even enough. Look what's going on right now. Mr Antun Palarić is directly as the head of the central government body responsible for preparing this legislation, the most responsible person for all legal matter that has come to this House, and it concerns the direct election of the mayor, mayor and mayor, and in the months that follow we will be witnesses of the incredible chaos in practice because we have been forced by the will of the parliamentary majority to adopt such regulations from which no distinction in the jurisdiction of the executive and representative authorities is seen. And that goes to the fact that he now has to arbitration and the Trade Court in certain cases. The trade court is now making us a cap in things that have been reported exclusively to the jurisdiction of the Local Self-Government Units Act. That's scandalous. This is where we are brought by the practice signed by Mr Antun Palarić. I'll list two fresh cases. The establishment of a assembly in Sisak-Moslavina County that is typically political violence. Therefore, the assembly is interrupted at a time when it is led by the oldest councilman who, by law, has all the rights as well as the chairman, regardless of whether he is the President of the City Council elected or the oldest councilman. So, at that hour, he interrupts the session and continues it at five or six o'clock this afternoon. But in the meantime, a group of citizens, as it is different to call it, continues along with illegal MPs. Of course, Mr. Palaric signs a memo calling for a non-existent regulation. Can you believe that he found a foothold for his solution in the article of the Statute of the Croatian People's Party which ceased to exist on 19 April, and already in early June officially provides the CNS with a solution under which the new Statute enters into force and does not call for a new Statute, but for an old one that no longer exists. It is Mr Palaric's practice and thus politically rapes the will of citizens in Sisak-Moslavina County. Here's another example. In the city from which I come, the unwritten rule is that political culture states that the constitutional session of the representative council is being convened by both the political majority and the political minority in the representative body. And of course you're agreeing on a date for holding a constitutional session with representatives of the established majority. Representatives of the established majority propose a date on 19 June that fully consumes all legal conditions including that the new mayor enters office. No, Mr. Palaric is working on his own and calling for the day of June 30th when he knows that members of the city council who come from most cannot come because they have state obligations or obligations in this House. It's being protested by President of the Assembly of Mr. Bebic. Mr. Bebic begs Palaric not to. He promises not to do so and will call for July 6th. What's going on? Orderly, people gather 30, find they have no quorum, spend money on the Office of State Administration, spend money on the City of Velika Gorica and find the next session will be 14. So, the president of this House is deliberately pulling his nose because he is trying to disabling parliamentary representatives in carrying out their obligations, the Constitution of established obligations. It's Mr. Palaric. Furthermore, the way the laid down deadlines are interpreted in Mr Palarić's office as so-called. The instructive deadlines are unheard of. Whenever HDZ and its coalition partners are in the interest of that, it is mandatory, pre-inclusive deadlines. But when it's not in the interest, then they're instructive. So here's the latest interpretation, that despite the law says that the deputy mayor or deputy mayor can declare within 8 days whether he will perform his duty as volunteer or professionally the latest interpretation of Mr. Palarić that it is only an instructional deadline, that he can declare himself after 8 days. And not only that, that he can plead more than once during his term, so 17 times he can be a professional, and 17 times he can be a volunteer. It is an approach that Mr Palarić personally entered into the administrative law of the Republic of Croatia by interpreting it as a gum gum, stretching it as the daily-political interests of the client seek it. Such a person, gentlemen dear, cannot be a candidate for a constitutional judge. Well done, Mr. Palaric. He came at political will and be there as long as the political majority fits. He demonstrates the political interests of the ruling majority in this House and so be it, because that's how the law made it possible. But it doesn't have to, it can't be a practice for people like that to qualify themselves as a constitutional judge. What are we talking about? What constitutional judgments will look like if it is a criterion for interpreting the law. We're protesting hard. The Croatian People's Party, which has been damaged countless times over the past six years in all administrative disputes, i.e. administrative procedures conducted in front of the Central Office of the State Administration in a completely unencumbered manner, in a way that interpreted the regulations as requested or as the day dawned or as someone called it from above. We strongly protest against any chance, the opportunity for Mr. Antun Palaric from the state secretary's post to go to the Constitutional Court. But here we see yesterday, the matter has already been arranged. Mr. Mlakar is coming for the Minister of Administration, which means the Central Office of the State Administration is about to be abolished, i.e. to turn into a ministry, and there is no room for Mr. Palaric, so the Constitutional Court must go. Is this a practice that this House of the High will adopt that people who no longer have room in the executive functions are rewarded for what they have done, no less than go to the Constitutional Court? Calling for an explanation of a certain decision by having 23 years of legal training is scandalous. Decisions, decisions and judgments shall not be made on the basis of years of employment, but on the basis of regulations. And if we don't treat them that way, you know, yak and hip of administrative practice and rights and chances of establishing a functioning rule of law. The Croatian People's Party does not want to support Mr Antun Palaric as constitutional judge.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34841	Thank you very much. Two are correcting an incorrect quote. First respected representative Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34842	Dear Vice President, I am obliged to correct the incorrect allegations of counterpart Beus Richembergh, who says that the group of citizens continued the session of the County Assembly. That's not true. The county assembly session was continued by 26 of the 51 council members who were elected by the legitimate council members and who were read by the mandate committee and who was the government's authorised representative, a representative of the Office of State Administration at the beginning of the session identified as many legal members of the county assembly. Therefore, it is completely incorrect and false to interpret and deceive the public that a group of citizens continued with the assembly session and elected representatives of the Sisak-Moslavina County County County County County County. This was not only confirmed by the central office, his commission, which carried out inspection, but was confirmed by the government's authorised representative at the very session of the County Assembly. Everything else that happened in the afternoon was a performance that ended the way it ended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34843	Thank you. And a second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34844	Dear Mr. Vice President, there were a number of incorrect allegations, but I would like to look also at this incorrect assumption where Mr. Beus, a representative in the Croatian Parliament, pointed out that a group of citizens continued the session in Sisak-Moslavina County, which is absolutely incorrect and misleading to the public because most present council members continued a session which unfortunately tried illegally to interrupt the current mayor Marina Lovrić and the president of HNS, Radimir Cacic referring to a fax where they tried to recall the elected HNS council members who, after their mandates were verified, had worked normally in the county assembly. This put Radimir Cacic in office of the SDP, neglecting the articles of the HNS Statute, which clearly states that the HNS presidency has appointed deputy councilors, which has been done in Sisak-Moslavina County. When I talk about political violence, my colleague Beus, political violence was conducted by Marina Lovric and Radimir Cacic by forcing HNS council members Mirjan Begic into a hospital bed, which is a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34845	Thank you very much, ma'am. We're continuing the club debate. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34846	Honorable Mr. Vice President, distinguished gentlemen of the House of Representatives. I might speak a little differently from my predecessors. I personally think it would be good for the government and the opposition to sit down and fill in one of the Croatian institutions. It is at this point about the Constitutional Court, the functioning of all institutions in the Republic of Croatia at the moment is contitio sini qua non. Equally the Constitutional Court, same as the Supreme Court, after this we will also discuss the President of the Supreme Court, etc., etc. So, after a shameful escape, the departure of Ivo Sanader, which should not be regretted, should be regretted that he had not stayed earlier, Mr. Representative, institutions must function and will because people in those institutions are more mature than those who led the government until yesterday. What gentlemen have to say and it has to be guaranteed by the Constitutional Court, what is also to be said, democracy is not suspended, the Constitutional Court is there a guarantee, a guarantee of the rule of law, and everything else in this country functions regularly, by the president of the CNB, including the Parliament, etc., etc. What is necessary at this point, however, to tell citizens that there is no panic, don't be afraid, you have the right to be concerned, you have the right to be shocked, surprised, angry, angry, but the banking system is stable, factories work, savings stakes are secure, schools clearly don't work, summer is, everything is fine, not even strike, going season. There's a lot of work to be done in the season, so I don't keep counting. Clearly, when I propose a consensus on the fill-in of institutions, about in this case the election of two Constitutional Court judges, then I also suggest that the ruling agree to a consensus on early elections. So, let's agree on judges of the Constitutional Court, support Croatia for the President of the Supreme Court, arrange an emergency rebalancing, guarantee the full autonomy of the Croatian National Bank, and they give us a solid kuna, call on the IMF, decentralisation Croatia, because this is no longer going on for the season, by the season in the elections. So much, I won't say a word about candidates. I share Mr. Beus' opinion. Let's make a deal with the judges, at least we don't prefer anyone in IDS, I won't call anyone here, I won't argue, I won't deny it. Once again, what is most important to say and, as a message to the citizens that institutions are stable, we have a president, it is good that this departure has come. The CNB is stable, he's in trouble, it's gonna be difficult, but he doesn't need to panic. The world goes on, Croatia will go on, and we will probably one day as a country come to the green branch. If there are no early elections, neither the IDS is clear for these judges, we will not vote, but we share the court's view that reforms in this area need to be done in the same way as is possible before the constitutional law changes. What must have been the most embarrassing thing in history, I would have said to those institutions, in fact not as much of the Constitutional Court, as of the then Parliament, are the arrangements of '99. I don't know what to call them about Mr. Vukojevic's name. It was a complete degradation of the Constitutional Court and these tied-up trades of the then Parliament. Today we may not be far from it, but today we are also in a banana. And that's why the heads together in the elections, and then let the new government propose a new Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34847	Thank you very much. The correction has been incorrectly declared. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34848	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I have to correct my colleague Cain's quote when he said Eve Sanader's departure. It is true that both the Croatian and European media reportedly resigned yesterday. We must remind ourselves that under the Law on Government, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia resigns to the Croatian Parliament, not to the press. And as long as those resignations are not in the House, and we are having an idyllic discussion this morning about flour, civil protection and judges, I don't think anyone in this country has resigned by wanting to believe that you may know that this resignation came to the Assembly and that perhaps the Croatian Parliament will have it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34849	Thank you very much. No more club reports, but we have one application for an individual hearing. Dear Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34850	Thank you. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I don't normally discuss staff solutions, but it's also a surprise to me to propose a candidate for constitutional judge Mr. Palaric. A person who is really responsible for many of the qualifications of political corruption in the Republic of Croatia, a person who is responsible for many things because local self-government was very often alone and found solutions alone, a person who cannot be boasted that she respected the profession, although she played the laws. It's the person who was proposed today. He suggested a committee, just the board. What does that mean? We are trying to send a message in this House, to your knowledge of abuse, to your abuses, to keep your position, and you will be rewarded. We will today, after this debate, allow the majority to reward who has abused his duty. To really leave an image in Croatia that we do not wish to fight against people who are guilty of corruption, even political corruption, and that is Mr. Palaric. So what do you say about that sacred institution tomorrow at the Constitutional Court? When we care about all our knowledge, we put all our expertise in the function of serving, not in the function of justice and the need of Croatian citizens. It's really hard to deal with. And I'm not going to make up myself, personally. And that's why I want to make it very clear. It is unfortunate if the majority in the Croatian Parliament support a man who is guilty of many things, that we have a negative image in Europe, that citizens in the judiciary do not think well and that it is a man who did not serve Croatian citizens but a personal promotion and his party.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34851	Thank you. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34852	Thank you very much. Here is the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I would correct Mr. Linic's incorrect quote that he says, and the person who suggested the solution himself. This is incorrect, Mr. Linic, precisely because Mr. Palaric has always consulted here from the post of president of the Association of Cities can testify equally as a member of the State Commission for decentralisation. Each time on each proposal, he consulted relevant institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34853	Thank you very much. We also have a replica of the esteemed representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34854	Thank you very much. A fellow Linic is not unfortunately a simple prize. It's a very interesting prize. So, Mr. Palarić is now going to the Constitutional Court and we may have been able to hope by Friday that some of Mr. Palarić's current masters will now, if they come to the Constitutional Court, be in accordance with the law and the Constitution. But imagine now the situation when Mr Palaric gets that illegal case back in the Constitutional Court as a rapporteur we will de facto no longer have as citizens of this country any space of protection of legality. And that's the problem, actually, the level of reward, right. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34855	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34856	I agree with my colleague, Lucin, with the fact that in Croatia, a growing number of institutions do not perform their duties in accordance with legal decisions, that many institutions of the Republic of Croatia are beginning to serve the ruling furniture. Instead of protecting markets, financial markets I would say unmonopolous behavior, but until now it was a problem I would say relations between the government and Parliament. But unfortunately, these are the solutions where we also put people into the judiciary who have shown that they are not sacred, professional, knowledge, responsibility, but that we are now putting them into the judiciary. Yeah, that's the wrong message. It doesn't matter what they decide in court. It is simple that the messages of the institutions of the Republic of Croatia should serve the majority. That's the worst message we send from the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34857	Thank you very much. And a final debate of five minutes on behalf of the HNS Club, representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34858	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Here's the debate show that the HNS club is right when it troubles this candidacy. And it should definitely be said that from an attempt to correct incorrect allegations, a whole series of new incorrect allegations, it should be said that what was demonstrated by the Central Office of the State Administration as a poet above the Sisak-Moslavina County Assembly is simply not well interpreted. There were not 26 elected councilmen sitting there, but there was a number of elected councilmen and not legally appointed alternate councilmen. Therefore, we all know that it is a fundamental act that regulates the question of the procedure of the law, but also the party's statutes. Therefore, we can draw the statutes of the party from '92, fourth or sixth, to call on them, but if that act is no longer in force, then it is a disgrace to whoever knows it is quoting such a thing. But let's get back to the Croatian Parliament. Two years in a row we are here to establish that an official report on the implementation of the Law on the right to the availability of public information has been falsified. Mr. Antun Palaric, as secretary of state, submits it. Two years in a row we actually find that by comparatively analysing that everything that's written in that report is put under a great deal of question because we haven't received information identical to that that data is being verified. We know very well that international or domestic NGOs have developed technology to verify the accuracy of the data listed in the official report. And two years in a row, it turns out that it's not exactly what Mr. Palaric here wrote to us in his report. He's got one statistic and here's another. Why? Because he says there were no demands in some cases and we have documented that they were sent and received. So, if these things are being delivered to this House of the Central Office of the State, in any case misleading information, and in order to create in public the impression that the state is making a great deal of effort to meet dissatisfied citizens, then I think it deserves criticism, that this deserves a different approach and seriousness, because otherwise the question arises that we, as a public representative in this House, really consider ourselves under criteria, institution, call, mission of the Constitutional Court as the highest judicial body in the Republic of Croatia, besides which there is no greater and more instance of rights protection in Croatia. Therefore, I ask my colleagues from the ruling majority to think carefully because this sword has two blades. Such people who serve an hour of one, an hour to the other political majority in the way it is done in the Office of State Administration are not a good guarantee, not a good practice, not a guarantee of the stability of the order, do not guarantee the restoration of the rule of law in the right way. I understand the need for civil servants who will be loyal to the political majority but who will reward them with an eight-year internship in the Constitutional Court is still too much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34859	Thank you very much. We're going to have two corrections to an incorrect assumption. First respected representative Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34860	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Beus, said that in Sisak-Moslavina County, replacement HNS council members were illegally elected. So, colleague Beus, you have a statute that is also on your website, please read it. HNS Councilors who were elected as a replacement were elected by the basis of both your statutes and the basis of the law, and this was confirmed by a representative of the state administration, Mr Bajic, who was sitting there. I'm shocked by your statements that you can, you're trying to justify something that has nothing to do with the law or common sense. And what happened in Sisak-Moslavina County shows that the president of your party puts his personal interests ahead of the party. And I'd like to tell you because if there was a possibility of a replica, I know it doesn't exist, but I have to tell you. Mr. Cacic has disbanded the county organization of the CNS in Sisak-Moslavina County, which Mr. Beus is responsible for being a representative here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34861	Thank you very much. Okay. Shocking statements cannot be corrected by the rules of procedure yet, and I am afraid that even incorrect allegations cannot be corrected by the political evaluations that were in this second part, unlike the first part of the corrections that were in the Rules of Procedure. We're continuing with the corrections of an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34862	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague, Beus Richembergh, who said that in the follow-up of the county assembly session, there were a number of legally elected councilors and two alternate councilmen who were not legal. That's not true. I have here an official document, a record from the Assembly of Sisak-Moslavina County, which was composed of a professional service for the affairs of the Assembly and the headship, which was certified by the head of the Office of State Administration, who was authorised by the government's representative, who was also at the Ministry's inspection and who all said the same thing. What happened after that is, again, I have to go back a little bit, politically amazing that the HNS is tearing down its president of the HNS County Assembly... So it's politically unlikely that the HNS is tearing down its HNS president to install HSP... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] for the SDP account. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] So this is all you've been saying in the sense that you're cheating on the public and I'm obliged to correct you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34863	Thank you very much. The final word on behalf of the promoter will be given to the Honorable Vice-President of the House and the Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, Mr Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34864	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Constitutional law on the Constitutional Court on the basis of which the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court was passed by amendments to the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court and entered into force on 15 March 2002. It was brought unanimously to the Croatian Parliament. And according to this Constitutional Law, the amendments and additions to the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court and the procedures for running, the elections, the election of judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia have been under way since 2002. In the adoption of this Constitutional Law, the amendment and addition of the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court was given the following. The proposal for a Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia is within the framework of constitutional reform of the civil central government. According to us, the law regulates the place and role of the Constitutional Court in the state authority of the Republic of Croatia in a constitutional legal fashion. The approach is democraticised, the circle of legal persons, legal issues, human rights, social values under this bill protected from the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia is democratisationd by the final proposal of the law and the procedure of the Constitutional Court elections and the procedure is carried out from the beginning until the end of the court of the public. This proposal, this one for the assessment of this, the amendment and addition of the Constitutional Law, said in the Croatian Assembly on that day on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Who assessed the choice of Constitutional Court judges under the Constitutional Law, according to the proposal of the Constitutional Law, which was filed on behalf of the club, which was submitted on behalf of the Committee on the Constitution of the Committee, by Mr. Representative Mato Arlovic. Therefore, the SDP advocates' club estimated that the law, the constitutional law regarding the election of the Constitutional Court judges, was democratisation and that the proceedings were carried out from the beginning to the end before the public court. On behalf of the SDP club, my colleague Leko today gave a very sharp criticism that has been well founded in certain parts. But the criticism simply skips that the SDP was the key political force that participated in the draft constitutional law and proposed it and accepted it. Today, his colleague Leko made an argument that has been repeated several times in all the elections of the Constitutional Court judges and the Constitutional Committee when it is discussed and discussed in the Croatian Parliament on the proposal that the Croatian Assembly should be allowed to discuss all candidates who meet the conditions for selecting judges of the Constitutional Court without the committee being the filter that will establish a narrow list of candidates who meet the conditions laid down by the constitutional law and possible. According to the Constitutional Law, the Committee determines for the Constitution a list of candidates who enter the election and propose adoption to the Croatian Assembly. The Committee can clearly propose, in accordance with the Constitutional Law and all candidates who meet the conditions for the Constitutional Court judge, that they be voted by the Croatian Parliament. Since 2002, when the chairman of the board was also a member of the SDP, the Committee has always opted without exception for this choice to draw up a list of candidates that was greater than the number of those elected. And never except in one case when there was only one candidate, never, never, never come all candidates who meet the requirements that the board would claim at the Plenary session of the Croatian Parliament to discuss. In that debate in 2002, I was on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, as president of the HDZ Club, pleading that contrary to the proposal of the Constitutional Committee, the parliamentary majority of the SDP, to accept the principle that all those who meet, candidates who meet the conditions for which the Constitution Committee, to meet the conditions, that all candidates go to the Plenary Assembly session, what it is now proposing, what my fellow and friend Leko has proposed on the Committee on the Constitution and in all previous sessions of the Constitutional Committee when candidates for the Constitutional Court judge were established, where there has always been a position of the SDP Club, give all candidates who meet the conditions to discuss and decide on them. At that time, my proposal in 2002 was not accepted, so the proposal was accepted to go narrowly to the list of candidates but to those elected. Today and at debate sessions, the Committee on the Constitution and colleagues Leko and counterpart Anticevic propose and plan for what principle I defended in 2002, which is a clear democratic right, everyone has the right to change their position, their opinion, to make sure that his earlier opinion was different in nature, that it was, that it should be changed, and so I can change it and I don't have to change it. I stand on the stand to accept what was both life-threatening and what was the intensity and constitutional law on the 2002 Constitutional Court. Is that... in the reform of the Constitutional Court, in the reform of the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, this should be changed in a very good way, but it is a matter of reform and the Constitution, the amendment and the Constitution, the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, which we hope will come in the autumn, that it will come in the procedure and change of the Constitution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But now the law is what it is, and it needs to be respected. Although I am also saying under the current Constitutional Law, the Constitution Committee could decide to miss all candidates to discuss them in the Croatian Parliament. The Committee decided by a majority of votes to go to four candidates, two out of 10 are elected, which it has found to meet the requirements. As regards the objection to candidate Palaric, that is precisely why this public procedure was introduced by the Constitutional Law amending the judges of the Constitutional Court that, from the beginning to the end, as in his pledoje, his colleague Leko in 2002, this procedure took place from the beginning to the end in front of the public where the public, the general public, the parliamentary public can be familiar with all relevant data relating to the candidates for the Constitutional Court's judges. The Committee, when it received a notice from the President of the Constitutional Court that three judges were due to expire, called out a public ad via the Internet, a website. All candidates, all interested could and delivered their bids. These candidates went to web sites, went to the Internet, went to the public. Therefore, whoever was interested could see the résumés of candidates, their professional, professional, scientific and any other reference. Afterwards, we discussed this on the board and all the members of the board, all of them, including colleagues from the SDP, agreed that all candidates meet the requirements except one. Namely, they meet the conditions for selecting judges of the Constitutional Court, including Mr Antun Palaric. The board has therefore chosen out of 10 secret candidates' votes. Among them was Mr. Palaric. And now, just below, the procedure was left for the public Croatian Parliament to discuss all candidates, four of them, to discuss the committee's proposal, to discuss them in front of the public, to criticise and to point out clearly about candidate Palarić's views, evaluations, evaluations, and finally the decision will be taken in a secret vote by the Croatian Parliament and will be determined whether they will vote for this or that candidate of the four. Those who do not feel that a vote should be given for a particular candidate, will clearly confirm that their views, their assessments that they have made today in the debate, change and vote, and thus express their views to the candidate. In conclusion, I would like to say that the procedure for electing the Constitutional Court judges was conducted in the most democratic way, in the most transparent way, that it was conducted publicly, in front of the public, in front of Parliament, that the public could be fully informed and that it was fully informed about all candidates and that representatives of the public, representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament would give a final assessment in the secret vote and make a final ruling or final decision. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee, we remain with our proposal to hold a secret vote between these four candidates, which will receive 77 votes, which will require most of the total number of MPs in the secret vote, and will be elected. Those who do not receive the necessary majority will not be chosen. The law is hard, says Roman legal sentiment, dura lex sed lex. He's tough, but he needs to be respected, so he needs to be respected, Comrade Ingrid, and respected. And by voting you will determine... /The speakers speak out loud./... You will vote according to the candidate's values. According to the candidates' proposals. And these other political ones, you can see that the estimates of the individual candidate are counterproductive. One of them has one grade, the other one has another. These are at one point the idea of ideological and some other divisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34865	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We have a correction to an incorrect assumption. Dear Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34866	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, my colleague Shex, knows very well this Roman proverb: the one who does what the law forbids, and the law is played by the one who stuck to his letter and played his meaning. So, you incorrectly criticised, qualified my debate as a criticism of the text of the law or rather, or just as a criticism of the text of the law. I criticize the practice anyone introduced, and you perfected it. So I assure you that in public this rule is this, we won't compete so that they call us if we don't get a conviction from the rulings that we will pass. That's the rule. So now you're just calling for a discussion about the text of the law that's here, and you're saying that you could...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34867	Thank you!- I'm
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34868	Get to Parliament all the candidates who...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34869	Thank you very much. It's time to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34870	I've had two corrections.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34871	He can't. One's enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34872	And secondly, I'll just say it. So, clausula rebus sixtantibus thing goes well, and then changes everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34873	Thank you very much. We also have a breach of the Rules of Procedure filed by the vice president, Mr. Vladimir Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34874	So I have to use that formula in Article 209. My esteemed colleague and friend Leco was not correcting my incorrect claim, he was. My colleagues, Ingrid, don't you sufflage me, I can do it myself, believe me! He was actually commenting on my opinion. It's not a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34875	Okay. Thank you very much. In correcting the incorrect quote, there was more to the replica than one can accept. So, more comments and grades than counter arguments. However, I think that we have now come to the end of the debate on this proposal for a decision to elect two judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, and I therefore conclude the debate, and the choice of judges will be decided by a secret vote when the conditions are met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34876	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We're moving on with the session. I declare that the vote for the Constitutional Court judges is over. I announce that of the 153 voters, 133 MPs received the ballot. They voted 133. There were 3 invalid ballots, so 130 valid. For candidate Matu Arlovic, 110 MPs voted. Seven MPs voted for candidate Antony Kovac. Antun Palaric's candidate was voted by 82 MPs. And for candidate Agatha Racan, 47 MPs voted. On the basis of this report and the results signed here, I declare that Mato Arlović and Antun Palaric were elected as judges of the Constitutional Court. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34877	We're going to the next item on the agenda. This is - Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia Proposer: The President of the Republic of Croatia has sent this proposal on the basis of Article 118. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution is prescribed that the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, with the prior opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Court and the Competent Committee of the Croatian Parliament, shall elect and resolve the Croatian Parliament. You received the proposal by mail. The report of the Justice Committee is an integral part of the proposal for a decision. Does the board president want to further explain the report? Dear representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34878	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At its 29th session held on 16 June 2009, the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the basis of Article 73(1), subparagraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament propose a decision on the election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, which was sent by the President of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament. Following the debate, the Committee unanimously held 10 votes for a preliminary opinion. The proposal for a decision to elect the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia is supported by Act No 7105-03/1-09-2 of 20 May 2009 to elect Branko Hrvatin as President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Explanation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was established and submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by a proposal to elect Branko Hrvatin as President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, with the prior opinion of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and the competent board of the Croatian Parliament, on the proposal of the President of the Republic of Elections and resolves the Croatian Parliament. The President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia is elected for four years. In accordance with the provisions of Article 73(1) of the fifth Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament is the committee responsible for giving a preliminary opinion in the selection and resolution procedure of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that The law on courts is prescribed that the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia may be elected by a person who fulfils general and special conditions for the judge of that court. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on courts is prescribed that the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia may be appointed as a person who has served as a judicial officer for at least 15 years or for the same age as a lawyer or a public notary. The Committee discussed the proposal of the President of the Republic of Croatia by giving candidate Mr Branko Hrvatin the opportunity to attend the committee session and answer the questions of the board members. The résumé shows that it meets the conditions laid down in the provisions of the Law on Courts. The general session of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia gave a favourable opinion on Mr Branko Hrvatin's choice. Following that committee, it identified the previous opinion submitted to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34879	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. We have a report of a club representing the debate. It is a SDP club and respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34880	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will support the proposal of the President of the Republic of Croatia to appoint Mr Branko Hrvatin and the President of the Supreme Court as the President of the Supreme Court. Namely, it is one of the most important functions in the country alongside the Prime Minister, President of the Parliament, because the Supreme Court is also a representative of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia as the highest court ensures uniform application of the laws and equality of citizens. General session of the Supreme Court as the highest body in the Supreme Court itself, because it is made up of all judges unanimously proposed to the President to elect Mr Branko Hrvatin as President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, this support on behalf of the SDP club also stems from Mr Hrvatin not only his work so far, but also from this assessment of the general session of the Supreme Court. Because we accept and respect the power of judgment, its independence and its proposals especially when they come and when they are unanimous, when they do not cause a dispute within the same judicial authority. After all, we do not need to be distracted by the mind that just the general session of the Supreme Court was a dam or an attempt to be defended by some scandalous solutions of the State Judiciary Council. But unfortunately, although they warned and gave their opinions and criticisms in individual personnel solutions, the DSV did not listen to the Supreme Instance of Destiny. In front of Mr. Hrvatin as President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, which I believe will find unanimous support here, there are at least two challenges. Not only is such a person who is headed by such the highest judicial authority in one country to develop the judiciary, the implementation of the reform stands before him because the executive and legislative authority can devise, bring different action and reform programmes and plans, objectives, but ultimately the reform is carried out by judges. There are a whole series of tasks to improve the judiciary and those regular things, and at a time when for many years now clarity is rightly critical of the judicial authority and when the judiciary according to this barometer of corruption gets unfortunately the most negative assessment of Croatia's history. Nevertheless, his personal involvement as the President of the Supreme Court gives us to conclude that on the way to the development of the judiciary in this regard Mr. Hrvatin will continue. However, the role of President of the Supreme Court as representative of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia also has a special task, unfortunately deprived of such exhausting tasks by other representatives of the judicial authority across Europe and across the developed world, which is to defend the judicial authority against the faceless and shameless insolence of the exercise of power. It is unfortunately the Association of Judges that was once very loud a few years ago and when it should have been, and even more so when it was not due today, it has been silenced today and it is taking over the role of defending justifiable judicial authority from the insinuation of the executive power of the President of the Supreme Court. The last such faceless attack was now carried out by the former prime minister of the government when in the middle of the local elections he accused the court of planting him because he was making sensitive judgments in a sensitive time for him. Neither does Berlusconi, who makes laws, or proposes laws to suspend proceedings against him. That's the only faceless assault on the judiciary we had on Berlusconi. And that courage that Mr. Hrvatin expressed very well at the time, saying, but persistently, here it has earned, that is, the guarantee that Mr. Hrvatin will continue to be the person who will protect the independence of the judiciary because I repeat, as critical as citizens are against the judicial authorities, they are even more critical and even more sensitive when the executive authority is intruding and attacking the independence of the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34881	Thank you very much. The correcting of the incorrect allegations was reported by a respected representative, Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34882	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, there's a series of incorrect allegations, but here, I don't have time, I'll just look back at one, which is that this time the barometer marked for the first time, no, that the barometer marked the most negative assessment in the history of the Croatian judiciary. So if we continue to analyze the data on the surface and transmit it from day to day again, of course perception will be even worse. So this barometer is the first time that we've done this analysis. Otherwise, Transparency International data on the state of corruption in Croatia since 2006, and in 2008 are the best since the establishment of an independent Republic of Croatia. It should be said that the judiciary is one of six areas for which the data gives a barometer the first time this year and that all areas, which are political parties, public administration, private sector, media are somewhere in the range of 0.1. So from 4.4 to 4.2. So much for the worst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34883	Thank you very much. A respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic, reported for the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34884	Mrs. Lovrin has violated the provision of Article 209 of our Rules of Procedure. I was just quoting the barometer, the barometer of corruption for the judiciary at 4.4. It can be commented one way or another. I gave the exact information. Therefore, if you are in power, you are not in the power of fact and stop twisting facts, twist facts and correct data spin and correct them for false information.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34885	Thank you very much. No discussion, please, no discussion, no benching. I will conclude that this was, after all, the correction of the incorrect allegations in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so that I cannot accept that there have been injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. There are no further requests for discussion, so I am concluding a debate on the proposal for a decision on the election of the Supreme Court president, and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34886	17. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Proposer of the President of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the election of Branko Hrvatin as President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The decision on the election of the Supreme Court president was adopted by the majority, 108 votes in favour and 1 vote abstention, nothing against. And it was brought in in the text proposed by the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34887	We continue with the next item of the agenda, that is - The proposal for a decision on the resolution of Miroslav Šeparović, a member of the Security Intelligence Council of the Civil Intelligence Agency in the order of graduate lawyers is proposed by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, and you received the proposal by mail. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate and we have one application for an individual debate, a respected representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34888	Thank you very much. I'll try to be as short as I can. So, in his legislative activity, this Parliament, among other things years ago, made a decision to form, so through the Security Services Supervisory Council, or intelligence. This law, among other things, regulates the following, that this Council, seems to me at least once a year to report to the President, that is, this Assembly on its work. Here I am now asking all of us here do we know the members of that council, and we probably remember because we voted for them, and do we even know what that council is doing? Can anyone here say or read somewhere how many sessions they had, how many objects they had? Now you see of us being asked here to satisfy the mere form of voting for the resolution of one member of that council, and that we don't know at all, at least I don't know, and I believe the vast majority of the representatives that this council is doing. I ask myself why the legal form is not being fulfilled in this house and this House is not being informed of what the council is doing? They do not have to be kept secret, state or official, but at least on basic statistical indicators. 'Cause it's not about one year, it's about years, 'el. And now we're turning into a mere machine. I have to say I won't vote for a council member's solution. So it's not about Mr. Šeparović, I'm not voting for a member in the future and for the resolution of any member of this council until we get an insight into whether it's the council and what it's doing. And the fact that the President, or Parliament's presidency, thinks that the reports, because I believe that this council is sending a report, is not putting this Parliament on the agenda, it's not my problem, it's probably the parliamentary majority. But since we in this House are often here to satisfy the mere form, we'll probably do it this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34889	Thank you very much. No more reporting for discussion, and I'm closing the hearing. And we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34890	18. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of Miroslav Šeparovic, a member of the Civil Supervisory Council, the security of intelligence agencies in the order of graduate lawyers. Proposer of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the resolution of Miroslav Šeparovic, a member of the Civil Control Council of the Security and Intelligence Agency in the order of graduate lawyers. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The resolution decision was accepted by most votes, 101 votes for, 2 abstentions, nothing against the text as proposed by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34891	We move to - Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the Croatian Radio Television Programme is proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. The Committee proposed this decision on the basis of Articles 18 and 20. The law on Croatian radio television. You received the proposal by mail. And now I'm asking, but I find it unsuccessfully representative of the proposer, which is yes. He's here. Vice-President of the Committee of Ms Ljubica Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34892	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Here is the decision of the Croatian Parliament to appoint 5 members of the Croatian Programme Council since 14 October 2005 "National Journal" number 122/05. Zdenko Lijevac is a member of the HRT Programme Council. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on HRT "The People's News" No. 25/03. Zdenko Lijevak filed on 18 May 2009. The HRT Programme Council shall request the discharge of members of the HRT Council. At its 167th session held on 19 May 2009, the HRT Council accepted its request and in accordance with Article 20(2). The Law on HRT sent the Croatian Parliament a proposal to initiate the procedure for the termination of the Croatian Council, and before the end of the time to which it was elected. On 22 May 2009, the President of the Croatian Parliament forwarded that proposal to the Committee on Information, Information and Media. The information, information and media committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 20th session held on 24 June 2009 discussed this and discussed it in accordance with Article 18(1) and in conjunction with Article 20(1) and (2). The Law on HRT established this proposal by reason and submitted it to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34893	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I am concluding the debate because there are no reports, and we will vote on the motion for a decision when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34894	19. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of a member of the Croatian Radio-Television Programme Council. Proposer of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the resolution of Zdenko Lijevac, a member of the Croatian Radio-Television Programme Council. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that, unanimously with 106 votes, the proposal of the Committee on Information, Information and Media is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34895	The next item is - Proposals for a decision on the resolution of the president, vice president and members so far and on the appointment of a new president, vice president and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on War Veterans, and you received reports from the committee at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture Mrs. Nina Obulen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34896	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. So, based on Article 12. The Law on the Croatian Memorial and Documentation Centre of the Centre has the President, Vice-President and 5 members, and is appointed by the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the time of 4 years. As the term of office expired on 30 June, the Government set out at its meeting on 14 May 2009 a proposal for a Decision on the resolution of the President, Vice-President and members of the Governing Council so far, and a proposal for a Decision appointing a new President, Vice-President and members of the Council of the Croatian Memorial-Documentation Centre. For the President of the Governing Council, the Government proposed academician Franjo Shanjek, professor of Philosophy Master of theological, auxiliary and historical sciences, a regular member of HZU. A doctor of science, Nikica Baric, is proposed for the vice president, a doctor of science employed at the Croatian Institute of History who doctored with the dissertation of the "Republic of the Serbian Krajina in the Republic of Croatia 1990-1995." And for the members of the board of directors, the Master of Science Branko Kaleb, the Head of the Department of Archival Activity of the Ministry of Culture, the Doctor of Science Davor Marijan of the Croatian Institute of History, Master of Science Krešimir Rašan, Doctor of Science Miroslav Akmadja, Professor and Head of the Department of History at the Faculty of History in Osijek, and Colonel Ivan Gruić, Director of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, and the President of the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for Detained and Missing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34897	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First of all, the representatives' clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Honored Representative Mato Bilnjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34898	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As the president, vice president and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War stands out for the term of office of 4 years, with the date of 30 June 2009, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a proposal for the resolution of academics Franjo Sanjek, who was the president, Dr Nikica Baric, and members of the Committee of Ranko Kaleb, Davor Marjan, Krešimir Rasan and Josip Jurčević. As previous members of the board of directors point out at the meeting on 14 May, the government proposed those persons from the ranks of prominent scientists and public and cultural workers of Academymen Franjo Shanjek as president, Dr Nikic Baric as vice president and members of the magistrate Branko Kaleb, Dr Davor Marjan, Master Krešimir Razan, Dr Miroslav Akmađu and Colonel Ivica Grujic. Following the above-mentioned club, the Croatian Democratic Community will support the motion for a resolution and a proposal for appointing them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34899	Thank you very much. We also have applications for individual hearings. Dear Representative Ivo Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34900	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State. Before us is the proposal for a decision on the resolution of the president, vice president and members so far and the appointment of a new Administrative Council of the Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. The centre was founded as a public institution specialized archive and is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. The founder of the centre is the Republic of Croatia and the rights and responsibilities of the founders are carried out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia which is also the proponent of this decision that is ahead of us. The Centre collects, unites, arranges and protects all documentation and all data generated in the Homeland War and related to the war. It collects, arranges and classifies, processes registrant and archive materials created in the Homeland War and related to war in accordance with the Law on Archive materials and archives. Professional and scientific processing and analysis, data processing and material related to the Homeland War, publication of publications and other works based on its activities, publication of registration and archival material produced in the Homeland War, providing data and copies from the documents certified transcripts at the request of users in accordance with the Law on Archive materials and archives, organizes professional and scientific lectures, exhibitions and scientific meetings and other forms of research and truth about the Homeland War and knowledge of the public in the country and the world established facts related to the Homeland War. In its work, the Centre uses modern methods of protection and security of the permanent storage of collected material and develops sustainable information systems and publishes documents related to the Homeland War. The center's materials are conventional and unconventional. Conventional material is made up of Croatian documents and documents of para-state institutions and paramilitary units from occupied areas created during the Homeland War. The construction of an unconventional type are digital records related to the activities of the centre from 1989 to today. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre found that the President, Vice-President and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War appointed and resolved the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the light of the provision of Article 12(5) of the Act, the President, Vice-President and members of the Governing Council shall be appointed for a period of four years. The current president, vice-president and members of the Board of Directors of the Memorial Documentation Centre have expired on 30 June 2009, and the government has set out a proposal at its meeting on 14 May to resolve the president, vice-president and members of the Governing Council for the end of the term of office. At the same meeting, the Government of the Republic of Croatia set out a proposal to appoint a new president, vice president and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War on 1 July 2009. I will personally support this Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the President, Vice-President and members of the Management Council of the Memorial-Documentation Centre of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34901	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Does the proposaler's representative still want to take the floor? No, I don't. We'll vote when they get the necessary conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34902	20. Proposals for a decision to resolve the president, vice president and members so far and to appoint a new president, vice president and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the resolution of the President, Vice-President and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This decision was taken by the majority of votes, 104 votes for, 2 abstentions and nothing against. And two. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint a new president, vice-president of the Board of Directors of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The motion for a decision was accepted by most votes, 99 votes for and 3 abstentions, nothing against. The Committee on War Veterans has proposed to the Assembly a conclusion which reads: The Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War is committed to inform the Croatian Parliament of its overall activity and the results achieved within three months. I am voting on the committee's proposal. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The committee's proposal was accepted unanimously by 107 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34903	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. - Report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2008 is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This report was submitted by the Government pursuant to Article 38 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The island law. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Željko Tufekčić State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34904	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President, esteemed parliamentary representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. As Mr. Vice President has said, it is in accordance with Article 38. The Law on Islands The Government of the Republic of Croatia submits a report on the effects of the implementation of the Law on Islands. This is about the 2008 report. However, before I move on to the report, let me say here one piece of information that we have known in Croatia for a long time, but here they begin to recognize it throughout the world. In March this year, the islands of the Croatian Adriatic in certainly strong competition between the islands of Greece, Corsica, Puerto Rico, Mauritius, etc. According to the reader of a Spanish edition of the world’s renowned magazine, they were declared the most beautiful islands in the world. It certainly does, despite our being aware of it and what we know when others admit it. This report on the effects of the implementation of the Law on Islands in 2008 as already adopted the previous three for the period 2004-2005 was united, and then in 2006, 2007 was an analytical review of the implementation of the Government of Croatia's policy according to which the evaluation of the Adriatic and maritime orientation of the country, i.e. the development and enhanced care of islands, was set as a basic priority, all of which are also criteria of accelerated systemic development, in principle of sustainability, set as criteria for developing the whole country. The island's development policy is based on three basic objectives. The first is to create better and better quality living conditions on islands, the second is to protect existing values and preserve all island resources and the third is demographic social and economic progress and sustainable development. During 2008, measures and activities that have contributed to the development of the island in all segments continued. So the increase in the number and frequency of lines by introducing new, faster and more comfortable ships enabled, better, faster, better, better and cheaper connection of the island to land and island, the construction of transport, municipal and social infrastructure, meaning construction and rehabilitation, the construction of ports and roads, the construction of water supply systems and disposal systems, the construction of rehabilitations, the reconstruction of schools, kindergartens, sports halls, infirmarys and homes for the elderly, improved living conditions of the island's population and introduced new facilities. By subsidising maritime and island public road traffic with the advantages of transport of islands on the island map, so-called Vinettes, water price subsidisation, oil gas ingested transport, support to island employers and associations, the approval of more favourable credit programmes, etc., create conditions for a cheaper life of islanders and for their stay on islands. Support for island employers for employment, branding island products, co-financing of construction of 15 business zones, etc., encourages the development of an island economy. By improving healthcare, meaning building, editing, equipping new and existing primary healthcare facilities and sufficient number of healthcare staff and introducing a new dimension of social care, building homes for older people and developing extra-institutional forms and foster care for the elderly island population. It must be noted that, except in Zadar and Dubrovnik-Neretva County, although the legal basis of the county was not all ensured by the return, i.e. the establishment of a health home on the islands. Furthermore, improving the conditions and opportunities of education, building and resuscitating schools, introducing remote classes, the E-island project, subsidising free island, public road transport for pupils enabled longer stay of children in families on the island, or later separation from the family. Supports in agriculture, fishing, tourism, culture have enabled the development of indigenous traditional professions, the development of agriculture and tourism. The improvements in legislation contribute to more effective implementation of existing and new laws and their alignment with EU legislation. By implementing certain provisions of the Island Act, Article 35a, (b), (c) and (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. and d., i.e. the possibility of first buying state, county, units of local self-government stopped the sale of Croatian islands. In 2008, the state invested nearly a billion kunas and 700 million kunas in the development of the island, budgets and funds of legal persons owned by the Republic of Croatia. Of that amounts to billions and 340 million,... 340 million kunas are grants while 344 million kuna investments were made in the form of HABOR lending. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2008, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure invested nearly 720 million kunas of grants in the development and improvement of living conditions on islands. From that amount to transport infrastructure in 2008, almost 520 million kuna was invested from past funds from the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. This amount has been financed by ports, there are significant activities related to the construction of new and construction, rehabilitation and reconstruction of existing island ports and ports, and in order to improve the maritime integration of the island with the mainland and the island. The special goal in 2008 was to create infrastructure conditions in ports open to public transport, to accept new, larger and more modern ships. With this goal, 25 projects have been funded in last year's state budget, which totalled 58.5 million kuna with the position of the island and coastal development administration. Nearly a million kunas were invested in the construction and reconstruction of fishing ports, encouraging regular maritime speedboat lines of 434 million kunas. In the island maps, a total of 1497 vinjets were divided into the wines mentioned earlier in 2008. In road transport, construction, construction, maintenance... and local roads Polish and fire forest roads 19 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to that in air traffic, in development, safety... and airport security of transport standards, design documentation, construction of intervention helidroms on islands is invested 4 million and 700 thousand kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the municipal infrastructure in 2008, 61.6 million kuna was invested in the water supply of 25 million, in the disposal of 32 million, in the construction, recovery, repair of waste dumps and the construction of the site and cemetery 4 million and 600 thousand kuna. 53.6 million kuna was invested in social and social infrastructure in 2008. Of which in education facilities 26.9 million, healthcare 3.5, social care 8 million kuna, culture 6.5, sacral facilities 2 million and 800, and construction of firehouses, social homes and municipal buildings almost 6 million kuna. For the economy in 2008, 15.6 million kuna was invested, of which it calls 2.2 to the economics to support small value island employers to preserve jobs, means 217 island employers with 3,000 and 600 employees received 11.1 million kuna support. The reconstruction and modernisation of the fishing fleet of millions and 600, construction, reconstruction of the passenger excursion fleet over half a million kuna and we have a project of Croatian island product where 18 new island producers with 57 products through two years has been awarded the mark to the 31st island employer, the manufacturer with a total of 79 products. The island producers were presented by the Ministry in May 2008 at the third fair of indigenous products of Dalmatia, and in September at the Zagreb Fair in the event Eco ethno where some of them received a award for the quality of products. In 2008, 50 million kuna was allocated to subsidising the difference in fuel prices per million and a half, for subsidising the island, public road transport 30.3 million kuna, subsidising the water price on islands 15.9 million and subsidising the price of maritime transport of ingested oil gas 2.2 million kuna. It is indeed evident here that the subsidy is stimulated as low as the price of various islanders’ services, thus making life on the islands cheaper and easier. In 2008, a million and 900 million kuna were invested in ongoing support. There are financed various projects of associations, ongoing operations of local self-government units, maintenance of sports events, expert and scientific gatherings, publishing of monographs etc. The ministry invested 7.4m kuna last year to co-finance the production of various project documentation for future projects. Investment in broadband infrastructure means connecting parent and regional schools on islands in CARNET network and setting up a remote education system in 2008 has invested 7.6 million kuna, while investment in joint capital projects of interest for the development of the island has invested 50 million kuna. Small results suggest that an uncontested amount of invested financial resources and knowledge has been achieved, thus improving the quality of life of the island's population through improved transport connection, building island infrastructure, increasing number of subsidies and support, the sale of real estate on Croatian islands has been stopped, and finally by building the necessary economic infrastructure, support for island employers and branding of traditional original island products, the conditions for economic development that should result in a demographic recovery of the island's environments have been created. Some of these measures, except as they affect the improvement of living conditions and bring numerous improvements to the island's population in the direct function of economic recovery and development. It is rightly and realistic to conclude that the state's concern for the Croatian islands has certainly already resulted in a significant shift and their overall development because it has been invested in all areas that are important for the overall life of our islands, which, apart from unquestionable natural beauty, further improves and enriches their overall impression. Therefore, it does not surprise the news from the beginning that, according to readers, we are declared our islands to be the most beautiful islands in the world, and this report is a transparent demonstration of the government policy of the Republic of Croatia towards the Croatian islands. Next, we ask the Croatian Parliament to accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34905	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34906	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to correct the incorrect allegations made by Mr. Secretary of State, which connects significant investments in the islands last year with the fact that they were declared the most beautiful in the world by a magazine. I think that thanks to neither the Parliament nor the government nor the ministry or the investments of the Croatian islands, Croatian islands are the most beautiful in the world, but because they are given by nature or God, as they are already taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34907	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the esteemed representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34908	Mr. Chairman. State secretaries and associates, colleagues and colleagues. At the 20th session held on 1 July 2009, the Report on the effects of the implementation of the Law on Islands in 2008 was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 19 June 2009. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 13(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the accompanying report as an interested working body. In its opening statement, the proposer pointed out that this report, already adopted by the three previous reports, represents an analytical review of the implementation policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in part of the creation of better and better quality living conditions on the islands of protection of existing values and the preservation of all island resources, as well as demographic, social and economic progress and sustainable development of the island. During the course of 2008, a series of measures and activities have been carried out, with particular emphasis on the construction of transport, municipal and social infrastructures, the increase in number and frequency of lines, the introduction of new, faster and more comfortable ships, the introduction of night lines, subsidisation of maritime, island and public road transport, the benefits for the transport of islands on the island map, vignettes, the subsidisation of water prices and the transport of ingested oil gas, support to island employers for employment, co-financing of construction of 15 business zones, construction, arrangements and equipment of new and existing primary healthcare facilities, the construction and rehabilitation of schools, support in agriculture, fisheries, tourism and culture, etc. In 2008, the state invested in the development of the island a billion and 670 million 683 thousand 121 kuna and 10 June, budget and legal person resources of which a billion 336, 306 thousand 855 and 10 kuna are grants, and the rest of the kuna investments in the form of loans. In 2008, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction of the Republic of Croatia invested through grants to support the development of spatial plans, the construction of units of local self-government, the geo-information systems of the Adriatic Croatian spatial plans and spatial plans of special features for national parks and nature parks of millions and 22 thousand kuna. The state geodetic administration invested 13 million 158 thousand 746,76 kunas in the islands in 2008 through the implementation of cadastrian measurements at five locations with a total surface area of 3702 hectares. The debate highlights the importance of the definition of maritime goods. As regards the determination of maritime goods, it is pointed out the role of spatial order documents which determine the purpose of the organisation, use and purpose of the space, as well as the criteria and guidelines for the editing and protection of space. With the importance of quality and systematic settlement of the island's transport connection with land and island, in order to reduce their isolation, investment in the development of broadband Internet infrastructure has been highlighted in the context of reducing island isolation in order to connect parent and regional schools to CARNET's network and establish remote education systems. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: Report on the effects of the implementation of the Law on Islands in 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34909	I thank you, too. Do the other committees want to take part in the debate? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34910	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, the Honorable Director of the Department of Island and Coastal Development. My colleagues and colleagues. This is the second time we have discussed in this conference the report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Law. So far, such reports have been accepted almost unanimously, and the SDP club will support it this year. The Croatian Parliament adopted the National Development Programme and some principles 12 years ago. One of the principles is that islands are developed equal parts of Croatia. All places and areas of Croatia deserve equal initial, I stress the initial developmental attention and care. Development policy must be such that it does not lead to the decomposition of islands and land, and then the islands themselves into large and small ones. The islanders must exercise the same right to education, health care and safety of life as other Croatian citizens. The State has to ensure the conditions for that right to be exercised permanently. In order to achieve these rights, the state allocated a billion and 680 million kuna last year, which is about 200 million kuna less than last year. And last year, we warned that some items in this report simply do not belong to, for example, the value of radar that has been placed on islands or the value of maritime police ships. The island's inhabitants and their guests therefore felt the impact of the economic crisis with 200 million kuna, and according to the amounts of the budget most relevant to island projects in 2009 this will continue. Let us remind ourselves when preparing the 2009 budget most of the daily newspapers published on their headlines on which items will be saved in this year. The islands had a prominent place on that list. I hope this is not the reason why last year the minister was present at this point on a daily basis, and now there is neither Mr. Minister nor Mr. Bacic but the secretary of state to whom this is not the portfolio he deals. That is why it is somewhat strange, though, that at the beginning and end of this report, it is emphasized that a Spanish magazine has declared our islands the most beautiful in the world. Because for that beauty, neither the Parliament nor the Government nor the MPs nor the resolute ministry are responsible. Our islands have their comparative advantages – climate, geographical location, cleanliness of the environment, and the possibility of dealing with tourism and agriculture. And its limiting factors – the lack of a working-active population, insufficient port and road infrastructure, lack of basic education, lack of infrastructure, wastewater disposal, unsettled catastres and others. The country's task is therefore not to put its moves at risk, and to minimise limiting factors as much as possible. What the state invested in the islands in 2008 and I will then compare some items to the previous year 2007. The largest part, nearly 436 million and 800,000 kuna of total billion and 680000 kuna, refers to the item of the Line Coastal Maritime Transport Agency. The item rose from 371 million to 436 million kuna compared to last year. So, for 65 million kuna. I think that's good, because that ensures and improves the quality of connecting the island to the mainland, which is one of the biggest initial lacks of life on the island, therefore decoupling. And in that sense, it is good that it is and I hope, therefore, that this amount will not be reduced in the following budgets, and that this level of integration of the island with the mainland will continue. I think a good level has been achieved here and that only some individuals can yet make some individual repairs by introducing some lines if there are opportunities and needs. The second part, 100 million kuna more, i.e. from 178 million last year to 277 million kuna this year, refers to Croatian roads. So I hope these money has fulfilled its purpose, that some roads are fixed, made. I would, of course, like to mention again for the second, third or fourth time the sudden need for repairs, i.e. the restoration of the road between Jelsa and Suchuraj on the island of Hvar which connects, so the eastern part of the island of Hvar with the mainland, with the Macarian coast, which will become even more significant when the Drvenik-Ravca tunnel connects that part on highway A1. Other items are somewhat more difficult to compare because some ministries have changed since 2007, so agriculture and regional development. Tourism is special, so there are no more excessive differences in this sense. The Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure has reduced it by 10% investment in islands from 300 million to 273. And of course one big item that is there is the Ministry of Interior from 5.6 to 49 million kuna. So it's about buying sea police ships that I really don't see having direct connections to the implementation of the island law that this item is on the agenda or, for example, radar on the Rota, and I don't know where, on Lastovo, it seems to me that the items of the Ministry of Defence are listed. But that's what we said last year, and then, in that sense, a comparison with last year is possible in that way. There are often many questions in these times of crisis, and what you islanders want, there are 150,000 of you and the state invests in islands much more than that ratio of the population. That kind of look at luck or, unfortunately, it's not true. In fact, the ratio of population and investment is not seen, especially infrastructure should not be seen in winter when people are at least, but in summer when people are the most and precisely these people are using the infrastructure that is being built for them. For example, there are about 50,000 inhabitants on the island of Vir in the summer, which is therefore even more than some county centers, and of course investment in this should be seen for example for the disposal infrastructure for those people who will be there at the peak of the season. So, for 50,000 people, not for two and a half or three thousand people living in winter. It is likely and safe for all other Croatian islands as well. Therefore, this number of 125000 in terms of investment in infrastructure should not be some measure when comparing investment in islands with investment in other parts of Croatia, but the number that is summer, which is almost five, six if not ten times more. The second question is and how is distributed, how are they distributed by units of local self-government or by projects, these money that all Croatian citizens earn, which all Croatian citizens put into the budget. So whether there are political or other criteria. In a conversation with people who exercise power in municipalities and islands, I could not conclude that there was too much political arbitration in the distribution of money. Therefore, mainly local self-government units are independent of which party in power could receive funds with more or less enthusiasm. We don't have to go in there now. This report shows that perhaps the birth criteria can sometimes be an advantage to some units of local self - government. But there are only two, three municipalities. I think the Croatian budget can handle it anyway. The second thing, therefore, is that the one originally puts the islanders in a position of subjugation in some way is the possibility of obtaining health care. In any case, the amendment of the Health Protection Act in 2004 or 2005 when it is possible, or prescribed, that the counties must establish health homes on the islands, and then this year when the obligation has been abolished and only the possibility that most counties have not taken advantage of has occurred. It's one of the ways the state sometimes sees the island's specificity, but it can't really implement it. This, for example, is fully respected by this network of courts, so most of the courts on the islands remained and, for example, the state showed little more understanding. I also think that more understanding should be shown as regards the possibility of building a helipad, especially for primary health care on the islands, and that the resolution of these property-legal relations that are in many environments are resolved at least in the way that has been solved by the Golf Act, and that is to say that it is possible to authorise if nothing else is possible because I believe that people's lives are a little more valuable than fun and golfing. Also, I said already, all state investments should be observed in proportions, so these islands, how many people on the islands live in summer, how many infrastructures, how many people use this infrastructure in summer and generally, social life in summer on islands is much bigger than in winter. I believe, therefore, that these investments, not only in infrastructure, but also in social content, aim also to enable life on islands to last at one enviable level all year long, and then to have another 5th speed in the summer. I am also pleased that in places where islands are decided, people who understand the particulars of the island, which are native to the island, I hope that in this sense the continuity that has been mentioned in this report will continue, therefore, for the past 10 years. I believe that the islanders should not bear the burden of the crisis more than the rest of Croatia's citizens and I appeal, of course, to the governing structure not to allow the massacre of the 2010 budget items and the rebalances that follow us after this 2009 session to return the items relating to the islanders to the 2007 level when they were at the most appropriate period. In that sense, there is, of course, a lot to be done on the islands in the coming years. The SDP Club will support this report with these minor remarks that we have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34911	Thank you. I'd just like to say that by mentioning on two occasions that our islands according to one Spanish list were declared the most beautiful in the world, I must say when I read it, I was very proud and pleased to read it. Secondly, the islands would not have been declared the most beautiful in the world if they hadn't been preserved, if it hadn't been for nature, pure nature, if it hadn't been for the concreteisation of these islands, to try to preserve what makes the most beautiful island beautiful and that the sea around these islands hasn't been preserved, all of it made the beauty of the island, and all of these were elements that those who declared them are the most beautiful and considered. So it's very important when we discuss it, not to politicize it because it can really serve all of us honor and pride that it's done. And now we have several corrections of incorrect allegations. Well, first of all, she's a respected representative of Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34912	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, in part, you, Mr. Vice President, helped me correct the incorrect allegations when Mr. Agent says the beauty of our islands is not due either to the Parliament or to the Government. On the contrary. And by the fact that all the bodies in the Republic of Croatia are related to, and this is what we saw from this report with financial impact on our islands, this is actually the wrong allegation. The government and the Parliament both deserve it. The second incorrect assumption that I want to correct Mr. Agents is that the original criterion is an entry for funds. That's definitely not true either, because here I will also, despite what we've heard and Mr. Roshin, the president of this parliamentary committee has read and repeated once more the report that's been made, but I have to say thanks to the government, this government with a program of intergenerational solidarity, specifically the Sibenik Islands, all the settlers have received another quality of life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34913	Thank you. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34914	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, a colleague discussed a multiple increase in the number of island residents that are 2 summer months, so in the tourist season. He specifically cited the example of the island of Vir, which he said had about 50,000, there are 60 colleagues and more than 60 thousand inhabitants in the summer months, so the island of Vir, but should not forget that all of them, therefore, pay or a large majority of the residence tax, also pay communals throughout the year, those who have holiday homes and pay taxes on holiday homes. So it's all coming in from the local community.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34915	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34916	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got two corrections wrong. I don't think my colleague Bauk meant anything when he found it would be good if he claimed it would be good if there was a maximum occupancy infrastructure on the islands, i.e. for the maximum number of island residents. But it's completely irrational. That's why projects are done, like sewers, not for centuries of rain, but for some rains that appear less because simply some risks are taken into account. Thus, the profession does not predict that it takes the ultimate burden, but rather the rational burden that it can be. Otherwise, everything would be too expensive and untapped in a number of months over the year when it simply doesn't need it. A second correction to the wrong allegation, said counterpart Grubisic, however, is an even more drastic difference, is not 60, but 70,000 people to Viru, which I found five years ago as Prime Minister's Council because it only shows how much infrastructure is missing on Vira, but because it was not done by what they were given to create.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34917	Thank you. And we have a correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34918	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So the wrong colleague said that the birth criteria were one of the criteria for the allocation of funds. That's just not true. In a later debate, I will say, but all those who had any project related to the islands and coasts, and if they had prepared it qualityly, they got the means for it. There is no reason, therefore, you yourself said that there was no kind of political choice, but yet you incorrectly claimed that there was a birth criterion, which is also not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34919	Thank you. You don't have to throw it away. It is the turn of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative of Gary Capelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34920	Dear Vice President, representatives of the ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So here are the Croatian islands that cover all the islands of the eastern Adriatic coast of its central part, so the second largest island of the Mediterranean. There are a thousand 244, divided in Istria, Kvarner, North Dalmatian, Central Dalmatian, South Dalmatian, and according to the 2001 census, about 125 thousand inhabitants live on Croatian islands. Two are the basic strategic documents on which the sustainable development of the island is based. The National Development Programme of the Island and the Island Act. Today we have an opportunity to discuss the impact report on the implementation of the 2008 Island Act, which represents an analytical review of the implementation policy of the Government of Croatia, according to which the evaluation of the Adriatic and the maritime orientation of the country, i.e. the development and enhanced care of islands set as a basic priority and also the criterion of the country's development measures. So three are the main areas where the island's development policy is targeted. Long-term creation of better and quality living conditions on islands, protection of existing values, preservation of all island resources and demographic social economic progress and sustainable development. The development of the island is an average of more than a billion kuna from the position of the state and public sector each year for areas such as infrastructure, transport, municipal social, transport integration of economic, agriculture, fishing, tourism and culture, sport, sacral heritage. So involved in all sectors that are needed on the islands. In 2008, measures and activities that have contributed to the development of the island in all segments were continued. By increasing the number and frequency of lines, introducing new, faster and more comfortable ships, introducing night lines. We've seen this data that most of the financial resources are just being invested in traffic connection, and by introducing nightlines a few years ago, we've also got that psychological barrier that's been preventing us so far, to say that we're somehow connected to the coast for practically 24 hours. The construction of transport, municipal and social infrastructures, the construction of rehabilitations, construction of ports and roads, construction of water supply systems, systems of disposal, kindergartens, sports halls and all that has improved the living conditions of the island population and have been introduced in any case new facilities. Subsidisation of maritime, island, public, road transport by means of an island map of vines, water price subsidisation, oil gas ingested transport, the granting of support to island employers and associations, the approval of more favourable credit programmes. Thus, conditions are created for the cheaper life of the islanders and for their stay on the islands. Support for island employers by branding island products, co-financing the construction of 15 business zones, encourages the development of the economy. I must say one example in Losinj, with support in these business areas, we plan to hire cca next year of new 50-and-a-half small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and craftsmen in which we can mean where there are approximately 8 000 and 500 inhabitants on the island. Which means being on the island and keeping 50 of those and hiring them. Improving health care, building, editing, equipping new and existing primary healthcare facilities and a sufficient number of healthcare staff. By introducing a new dimension of social care, building homes for older people, and developing extra-institutional forms and foster care. She has improved her concern for the elderly island population. By improving the conditions and opportunities, by building and resuscitating schools, we see how much this means for if we can say on remote islands, such as the upper Adriatic, Union, Susak, Ilovik, project e- island subsidisation of free island, public, road transport for students must have improved quality in this segment as well. A longer stay of children on the island’s families, or later separation from them, was made possible. On support in agriculture, fisheries, tourism, culture, and in improving legislation, contribute to more effective implementation of existing new laws and their alignment with EU legislation. The implementation of the provisions of the Law on Islands, i.e. the possibility of the first purchase of the state, county, units of local self-government, stopped the sale of the Croatian island. We have seen today in the media and in the New List that the example is this very positive, and in any case I support these comments that were in the media today, that in this way we slowed down and somehow prevented the sale of the island on our coast. In addition to all these concerns, the State is also shown through the creation of legal and sub-legislative rules covering areas where the islands are not a separate unit, but certain provisions of these regulations are very important for their sustainable development. So in 2008, the state invested more than 1.6 million kunas of budgetary resources in the development of the island, proving the implementation policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in a segment of the development of the island designed to protect existing values, preserve all resources, and economic social and democratic progress and development. There is, of course, always a comment that decreased compared to the years before, but in some segments it had to be reduced because some islands were built in a way that of course also reduced the need for investments in some such as waterfronts, docks, ferry lines, etc. what has been achieved most, and now surely this is how it is equalized, so maybe it is reduced somewhere. The government of Dr. Ivo Sanader and the introduction of night ferry lines, by raising business zones, and by supporting entrepreneurs who establish companies on islands, creating jobs, creating good foundations for good economic revitalisation, until then neglected Croatian areas. This government returned health homes to the islanders, suspended during the SDP government, by decision of 2007 to keep island courts that did not enter the rationalisation system of Croatian judicial institutions. It is true, in the meantime, that there has been a change in the law regarding homes of health, but the law that has been passed here in the Croatian Parliament, for example, in the case of the town of Mali Lesinj and Cres, has not been respected, and to this day, health homes have not been returned to cities after the decision of the Parliament in 2007. Thus, in order to improve living conditions, a number of increasing funds are invested each year in construction, reconstruction, recovery of ports, and island road infrastructures. Realising the global events of society as a whole in Croatia and in many countries of the world that are on the same or similar developmental occasions, the goal set is quite demanding. The number of projects of building facilities and funds is expected to conclude a better improved demographic picture of the island with a final increase in the number of young people, an increased number of families residing on the island. As I come from the island as the largest and largest crowded city on islands with extremely high net income of all categories and high employment rates, just one of the main reasons for these positive numbers is special care for the islands by this very government. Therefore, by comparing data from the report on the implementation of the Island Law through periods for which the Government has been submitted through numerous indicators, the obvious and positive impact of the State's care for the islands is evident. I would just end up looking back at this if in 2009, the Spanish magazine had declared the Croatian islands I would not look back on this side, but in any case, proof that we are one of the most beautiful islands in the world is the only place that practically from Croatia participates in the Golden Flower of Europe award that the European Commission has recognised in some way exactly the island and this is the island of Mali Lošinj, and yet one of these interpretations in the Spanish press is very important to emphasize. Therefore, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, we will support this report for 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34921	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34922	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct two allegations that are incorrect. In fact, one is a bit illogical and I'd say dangerous, so some items are a reduction because everything's done and then there's really no more to do. That's quite an incorrect allegation because then no more projects would come to the ministry and in any case there are projects in the ministry that have not yet been implemented. Here, I'll mention two. One is the Jelsa-Shućurai road and the other I appeal to help the municipality of Tisno build a sports hall to the end. The second incorrect quote refers to the legal regulation of island health homes. So, it's only true that they were returned to law during the HDZ government but that the law was not implemented at all then as if nothing had been done, so it was seen, so it was eventually thrown out of the law. So it's the same subject, the same condition as it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34923	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic on behalf of the HDSSB club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34924	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I am truly impressed and would say the very impressive data contained in this report on the effects of the implementation of the Law on Islands for 2008. I also listened very closely to and carefully read the report that was for about eight months ago in 2007, and then, as I have seen in the materials standing here, it was almost planned for the islands or spent about 2 billion kunas, and now there is little less than a billion and let's say 700 million kuna, to round that figure to make it easier to speak. It is clear that on page 6 of this report when it comes to the Law on Islands and the main objectives for which this law exists is either three main areas to which the island development policy is targeted, which is to create better and better quality living conditions in the islands in the long term. You see how nice this formulation would suit the same beginning of a long-term creation of better and better quality living conditions, for example in Slavonia and Baranja. Furthermore, the protection of existing values and the preservation of all island and we can say Slavonian resources. Furthermore, demographic, social and economic progress and sustainable development are thought of the island but I say it would be good to apply it and to say also in the continuation of Slavonia and Baranja. When we see one thing in the introduction of this report, we see that out of a billion and 700 million kunas of grants is a billion and 336 million kuna. Indeed, the figures I would say to us in Slavonia are spinning in our heads, especially if we take some comparative parallel facts of each other. The day before yesterday a heavy rain fell in Slavonski Brod 35 liters per square metre of rain and a third of the households in Slavonski Brod have flooded basements because one collector is missing. Or such a case is also in Novi Gradišca where because of one water purifier that cannot be financed it does not matter from which means to enter or get off the highway from Zagreb or Slavonski Brod is unsustainable with what the Dalmatians would say with the smell of feces and everything else that leads to the canals not far from the billing houses at the entrance or exit from Nova Gradiška. I am in any case that someone would not have misunderstood me for that our islands, our beauty, our order from our country are developing to say to the full pair and to invest in them but I am also for the even development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia about which it remains to say verbal declaration and in fact there is nothing. And when we go on the items from the ministry to the ministry, from the offices and agencies that I say were responsible for funding various projects on a thousand 240 islands where 124 thousand people live or 100 inhabitants per island to say mathematically, but it's not so clear that the distribution of inhabitants is quite different because there are uninhabited islands. There is also the Peljesac peninsula and by it and it is included in this Island Act, then we see when I look at my local environment from which I come to say then see, there are some things that speak precisely about saying the inequality of the development of the Republic of Croatia. Someone here was talking about the birth criteria, but I don't think that among the islands themselves, there should be a potential criterion because they are together all together in a good position, given this law and the application of this law and the investment of funds based on this island development strategy, unlike I say some other parts. Well, let me just say, let me point out, what made me answer the word, and that's maritime traffic. A maritime transport involving 436 million and 800 thousand kunas. You see, the other day, a German boat, a tourist ship stuck in the parish because the Sava sails towards Slavonski boat that has something to show and in a tourist sense could not pass because of the uncertainty of sailing along the Sava River, beyond the County could not go. Furthermore, investment in ports, where it has invested 58 million kunas for island and coastal development, automatically reminds me of our port, a ship on the Sava River which is a second port of importance and for the Vukovar ports in which 20 million kunas are invested per drop per year and who knows when that port will finally work or be put into operation. On the next page, there is talk of vinjets for island residents and in terms of saying cheaper transportation or transport between land and island. I have been called hundreds of times by people, agricultural products producers from County and have been asked as a parliamentary representative to be written, by word of mouth, and I demand that these producers be able to transport cheaper to the market in Zagreb, Rijeka or elsewhere so that they do not pay so much toll from County or Lipovac to Zagreb and Rijeka, which then completely destroys their efforts and that actually prevents them from going to the markets where they are actually, where the belly of Croatia is and these are such big cities as Zagreb, Rijeka, Split and others. Well, you see, over 50,000 vinjets have been distributed for the island's inhabitants to 124 thousand inhabitants of the island. It never occurred to anyone that he would do this for the residents of the County, for the residents... , Posavina, Srijema, our Croatian Srijem and those areas that are this far away and have developed agricultural production and the need to travel and deal with this economy in order to make a profit, to stay alive on their hearths, in Croatia's Srijem, in Slavonia and Baranja. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm saying, don't look forward to all this together that our islanders, our daggers, are allowed here, but at the same time, I'm sad that I have to or can't without comparing these things to the situation here in my Slavonia. I would not like to talk about road traffic and investment in road infrastructure because it is known how many of our ZUCs, the County Road Administrations total get out of the budget that is 240 million kuna. And you know for yourself and how it says here, how much it's invested, so just for the road structure for the islands of a special law, this or that law has invested 19 million kunas. Just about as much as the ZUC, for example, had available on Slavonski ship. By air traffic, I know that our tourism needs a network of airports, it is true that tourists from overseas countries or remote countries of Europe are easier to get to our islands, but I do wonder and know about the problem of the only airport in Slavonia, which is the one Osijek that really does not get to live and can not go the right way and cannot achieve its function, that is the only airport in Slavonia and Baranja and that is our Croatian Srijem. When you speak here in your report on municipal infrastructure, then it is not mentioned that a month or two months ago we discussed it, whether a loan or a World Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Mr Matušić will help me not to be fooled by around 2 billion kunas, it seems to me, which improves and solves the definitely detachment of our entire coast, of all cities, settlements etc.. It doesn't say that here, clearly it's not in that report. But I must point out and tell the public that two billion are being invested in watering our entire coastal maritime belt. In geodetic subsidies, I also have one of these specific things where, for example, So it's also invested in such things as measurement to say, geodetic measurements, e.g. The municipality of Caglin, which has thus failed in the last 18 years of the Croatian state whose population has fallen from 10 thousand, so before the Homeland War on only 2.5 thousand, therefore, there is a quadruple number of inhabitants whose development depends on the development of the entrepreneurial zone but is not done and the geodetic measurements and other measurements are too expensive and asked for both Mr. Chief and the rest to be resolved. However, the Caglin municipality is still so cramped and residents of the Caglin municipality are definitely leaving. They also go to the islands, to temporary work, to pick olives, like maids, waiters, butchers and others for temporary work, in seasonal work, in Dalmatia. And then there's an increase in the number of employees and there's a decrease in the number of unemployed in Slavonia at the same time. And that item, our employment office in Slavonia and Slavonski, registered in the summer, decreased the number of unemployed. So we know why the unemployment rate's down. It is clear to all of us that in 1.9 or 1.10, this number of 1.6 will return to the same number again. The same 23% unemployed in Brod-Posavina County. And I would say that, therefore, all of this together, it's nice to see and accept this report on island development, about investment in islands, but I expect that one day here we also experience a situation or a parliamentary debate to discuss investments or some law special about truly abandoned, neglected by our Slavonian regions and then to discuss investments in Slavonia. Of course, I like islands like Slavonia, so I can't be against this report, but I warn that this situation is a little unsustainable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34925	Thank you. I'd just like to say a few words, that the vignettes you mentioned for the islanders only get for ferry transport. But when he comes from Brac to Split and comes to Dalmatin and goes to Županje pays the same toll as he pays when he goes to Split. So this is the benefit that we are trying to allow people to stay there because he has no other option but to swim, to get to Split. And another thing, so if you want a real company to be executed, ask for an investment debate in Slavonia, then we'll compare it to the islands. Thank you very much. We're moving forward with an individual debate, so it's up to the distinguished representative, Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34926	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State with an associate. I thank Boris, it wasn't long, so I've already come to the turn. Here while my colleague Grubisic mentioned Slavonia, Zupanja and so, here some colleagues who say that the debate is about islands, I would just like to give me one revision of the definition that Vice-President of the Seks Parliament told me here, the island is surrounded by the sea. Indeed, there are islands surrounded by land. Here we have at Sinja Island surrounded by land from where it is under the parish and at Vinkovci we can talk about this type of island. But it's important that we move forward better and better on the islands. No matter how much the Croatian Government or the Croatian State is responsible, but the islands of the Croatian Adriatic are one of the most beautiful in the world, regardless, and I think that's the value to be preserved. And this theme about the beauty of Croatian islands has been known long ago and is said to be islands and seas especially, and especially seas the three best. It's our islands, it's the Scottish seas and it's the Caribbean. So in light of the values that exist, which we have, it is worth taking care of and using them for economic development, but not destroying them in itself. Therefore, there is a National Development Programme for the Island with which the State wanted to equalise islands with land-based areas in an ecological, economic, social and technological sense, so much so that in the technology produced on the islands there is no waste, so it is also in the Mining Act and on the subject of stone and ash that remains on the side because it is not used as a block that can be used in the architectural stone. It's also going to be a waste. It's going to be a material that's going to go into one later, another kind of economy. Anyway, on the islands, not only because they're beautiful, but because we have them and because they're on land, there are great comparative advantages. In the first row, they are based on what brings us climate. And these comparative advantages should be used as well as possible, but not to destroy them and to look at those comparative advantages compared to those limiting factors that exist on the islands, which is a condition that is still far from satisfactory enough to say with islands we are completely calm, everything is arranged, but from day to day is getting better. I mentioned it on the board, so I'm gonna take advantage of the occasion now, even though you told me it was the result of someone who thought about it in particular. I've been a little distracted by a sentence about the fertilized population, because somehow it's usually used for fertile soil, and so for the human species, it seems to me that this fertility is an inappropriate element, that reproductive abilities are absolutely yes, and that it's being applied to that as much as possible to make the demographic structures on the islands as possible and then it's going. In addition to the National Development Programme, we also have the Islands Act, which defines two basic categories of islands, inhabited and uninhabited. Speaking of islands, we're also talking about Peljesac Peninsula. And one of the most important strategies that was adopted by the basis of such a law on islands is the Strategy for the Development of Nautical Tourism of the Republic of Croatia, seen in 10 years in advance, since '9. Until '19. A year. In any case, the infrastructure on the islands, the municipal infrastructure is extremely important, important for this development, but also an important social standard, i.e. that one social infrastructure. We are witnessing that a new health station was opened in Jelsa a few days ago. However, I must also say, I can't be satisfied that Supetar still doesn't have the ultrasound he's been promised for several years, so we'll intervene that the minister and the county level are realising that Supetar is getting an ultrasound. Sounds like a direct battle of the island's representatives in favor of the island. Because really, health care is extremely important and important, as we have shown how much the bow, the new bow in the horn, has given one sense of safety to the Soltans, and so is one very important thing. The topic is particularly important and discussed in our Parliament, it is a question of the right to buy the island. Apparently, the 27 offers were for the purchase of the island, but no purchases were made for the simple reason that the sale of the island could not be sold and what is a maritime good. And we on the islands don't know what the marine good is, we don't know on these islands because no planical document has established that maritime well. There should certainly be plans for this, although it is a question of cost-effectiveness of building a spatial plan for something that is uninhabited, so the question is how economically it will be. But the fact that there's no definition of marine good islands couldn't be sold, so maybe they didn't go into the wrong hands, they stayed in our hands. Croatian island products, one topic that has highly affirmed the island's economy, received one special quality. 18 manufacturers have already obtained such quality, quality mark and special stimuli from their 57 products. And so investments in Croatian islands and Peljesac peninsula continue and continue not to repeat the figures that have already been told more times how much has been invested in the Croatian islands during last year. Maybe something less than last year, but it's always over a billion. The justification of these investments can show at least an example of Nerežiste on the island of Brac, which shows a phenomenal development and at the moment of the crisis, the economic crisis that we all witness together opens up a new industrial zone and employs 70 new people, 70 people who are jobless. How important the social infrastructure on the islands is, and how much testimony can be given, I would like to point out one example of a small marriage spot. It's called the Lower Humac on Bratch. Seven days ago, you could have witnessed three exhibitions of artists from the Lower Humec in Brac taking place in the Croatian Metropolis in Zagreb. One at the Museum of Art and crafts, one in Margaretska at the Račić gallery and one at the Matica hrvatska gallery. Thus, such artistic, artistic potential lives in Brac and is so valuable that in Zagreb, there can also be three exhibitions of that kind in the metropolis of Croatia at the same time. I'm not going to mention the names of the artist so it wouldn't be like a commercial, but so much so it's known that we're scuttling. The importance for the Croatian economy, the exceptional importance for the Croatian economy, so thank God and for the Brač economy, is that the increase in transport capacity in these last years is 220%, while the income of the vehicle is 300%. To conclude, many things have been done for the Croatian islands, that the islands live better. I also found there in a previous discussion that he spoke about not today, but the last time we discussed our colleague, Bauk, that a lot of things had been done. However, much still needs to be done. I am aware of how much of this has been reported and entered into the island development programmes into that basic budget that has been made. But this kind of money crisis just puts these programs off for something later or realizes them on a smaller scale. But I believe it will be so realized to the end. At the very least, the Brač elections have shown that the citizens of the island of Brac are satisfied with the treatment of the island, and I believe that is true in all other islands. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34927	Thank you. We have one correction. Dear Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34928	Well, here I would like to correct Mr. Roshin's latest quote that the elections on Brač Island have shown that they are satisfied with the treatment of the island. In the 2007 parliamentary elections, The SDP received about 250 votes more than HDZ in Brač, and that is the response of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34929	Thank you. Let it go, you know, the numbers say everything. We are moving forward with an individual debate by the distinguished representative Nevenka Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34930	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. I will shorten my debate, but I will begin it with the finding that the title of the most beautiful islands of the world are actually carried by the Croatian islands, and there are 1244 of them. They occupy 5.8% of Croatian land surfaces. They have more shores than land, and about 150,000 inhabitants live in 344 island settlements. They are administratively owned by seven coastal counties. 51 island towns and municipalities and 7 coastal towns. Zadar County has the most populated islands of as much as 17, where there are slightly less than 20,000 inhabitants living in 57 settlements. This title is a result of and a harmonised implementation policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia according to which the evaluation of the Adriatic and maritime orientations of the country, i.e. increased care of islands and their development is set as a top priority and it is seen from this report. The basic areas in which the funds are directed, I'm just going to list the areas where they don't seem to be sufficiently highlighted. Thus, out of the total investment by the state in the development of the island in 2008, which amounted to 1.7 billion kuna, part of the income tax is allocated to units of local self-government on the islands and amounts to 52 million kuna, and for Zadar County for 7 units of local self-government is 4 and a half million kuna. State aid to island employers for the preservation of jobs amounts to 30.7 million kuna, which is support for 10431 employees of island employers. In the ports, construction and reconstruction was invested as we have already heard 58 million kuna and in maritime transport 436. In road 19, in air 4.7. Total transport infrastructure 520 million kuna. 61 million kuna invested in the utility, and 53.6 million kuna in social infrastructure programmes. These social infrastructure programmes for individual units of local self-government which did not have prepared the project documentation did not go or did not withdraw certain funds. A total of 15.6 million kuna was invested in the economy and more than 50 million kuna subsidies, with these investments covering all the islands and Peljesac peninsula. From the documents that have been made I would single out a strategy for the development of nautical tourism because there really is a huge potential. I would highlight it as a quality document of the long-term development of nautical tourism, which includes management of the nautical tourism system of nature conservation and the environment, quality and competitiveness, but also economic valorisation. It defines the vision, mission, strategic objectives and the implementation action plan with precisely defined measures and activities, holders and deadlines by 2019. I would also like to highlight here the project of Croatian island product which is designed to encourage the development of island production, but also to raise the level of quality of island products and their positioning on the domestic and foreign markets. During the two years of the project, the label of the Croatian island product was awarded to a 30-and-one island producer for 79 products, and all of these products had the opportunity to be exposed at the Easter fair held here in Zagreb. And according to information, complete supplies of island products have been sold. When we talk about the effects of implementation, I think that here and my colleague Bauk will agree with me, that they are most visible in connection with the Croatian islands with the mainland, so I will repeat. In activities to connect Croatia's islands with the mainland in 2009, the need to further raise the level of quality that the Adriatic maritime line transport system has achieved as the backbone of all efforts to improve the quality of life on islands in 2008. According to the number of boat and ferry connections, and the frequency of traffic on them has reached the highest level so far. Within the system, virtually all problems have been solved, the island's traffic problems for the great pleasure of the islanders. With the pleasure of the islanders themselves, the maritime connections system of land islands has made a great direct contribution to the success of the entire tourist season. During 2008, transport took place on ferry, ship and fast shipping lines without difficulty, delays and congestion, and it should be pointed out that millions of passengers and cars were transferred to the islands without even the slightest accident. Thus, the system of maritime liner traffic, which we have heard today, is much invested in this part of the world’s safest. These are the results of such investments. And another fact is that in maritime transport in the Adriatic in 2008 an absolute record was reached because 11.8 million passengers and 3 million cars were transported. The value of these investments consists of synchronisation, precisely in synchronisation in the synchronisation of all projects and therefore the effects of these investments are so great. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34931	Thank you. Dear Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34932	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Since colleagues spoke highly of the results more or less, i.e. the implementation of the Island Act for the past year, 2008 and I would have been able to say in one way what was done in fact in the southernmost Dubrovnik-Neretva County and in some way commented on everything we could have heard in the debate so far. In fact, it is quite certain that the implementation of this law has contributed very much to the standard of living on islands, as well as to islands in Dubrovnik-Neretva County that have quite a number, counting on the Peljesac peninsula which has island status and in this sense I think that citizens are quite satisfied. In addition, the fact that social infrastructure has been improved on all these islands, that numerous schools and sports halls and various other facilities have been built, the homes of pensioners and that in intensive construction there is in fact a large number of the basic infrastructure that means sustainable development, which is primarily infrastructures such as waterway systems, such as disposal systems, so what it really means is survival and survival in these areas. There was a debate on how to introduce something similar to wines for islanders and other parts of Croatia, but there is obviously one misunderstanding about how people on the islands actually live daily because the vignettes were introduced to allow these people living on the islands daily to return and leave the island in one way that it can also finance because each crossing from the island costs and costs quite a lot. So, the daily departure from a mile away or 500 meters from the dependence on how far the island is away from the coast costs quite significantly. The intensity of this law was to try to reduce the price as much as possible so that it would be proportionate to costs if the road continued towards that island to the cost of each individual. In this sense, the state has done a great deal, it has done a great deal first and foremost in introducing new lines, night lines and new lines, and what is most important, the introduction of new more high-quality ferrys. I'll just say that one ferry that was brought in for a line that drove between Orebic and Korčula solved the problems that have been long over the years, that the said decade has plagued that island which is one of the most populated, so the island of Korčula, one of the most populated islands on our coast. So it's that particular shift in quality of life. Further, subsidies for new employees. It is extremely important for the development of an island economy. The subsidies obtained through the planting of new vineyards, olives, are also extremely significant and are precisely the islands and Peljesac peninsula of the largest users of these subsidies, and there is the most quiet and such projects happening. The detention of island courts is also very important for our county, in that sense we supported the move. When we talk about care for the economy, we cannot bypass the business zones that are opening on the islands and which will be opened in this case on Peljesac Peninsula, and in this sense we see the great interest of all those living downstairs that as soon as possible, they actually create a prerequisite for these business zones to come to life because the interest is great. Of course, we are pleased to hear that from other parts of the world, praise comes from one Spain and that the beauty and values of our islands are recognized, but we are certainly absolutely aware of these beauty and daily concerns about them through various programmes that mean and protect the environment enough to tell us about the fact that in time we reacted, as regards the construction, as regards the apartmentisation, as regards the destruction of the coast, which in some parts of the Mediterranean, unfortunately seriously endangered the coastal area, for example. A concrete example is both Spain and its islands, such as Majorca, where intensive construction has indeed taken place in the coastal area where this entire coastal belt has actually been destroyed. Lucky for us, we don't have that kind of problem. We have passed legislation that has been highly regulated, but of course we should also think about the needs of this population that really deserves to be realized in the best possible way and all its needs. In this sense, we think that it is also necessary to appreciate the thinking that comes from the island that in some way it is possible for this island population to make the best use of this advantage that is possible through building, but building those objects that will mean further sustainable development. How much does it mean to build this infrastructure like road infrastructure on islands and on Peljesac Peninsula I don't think you should speak specifically. I will point out once again that Pelješki bridge has no direct connection with the implementation of this law, but it will greatly improve life on the Pelješac peninsula which has island status and will contribute to both economic and all the overall development of the Pelješac island itself and all the gravitating islands, so Mljet and Lastov and Korčula and all the surrounding areas. Here's so much from me and I think of course we'll all support this law enforcement. But I'll just say it's never been invested in Croatian islands as much as it's invested over the past few years. It has never been so much invested, it has never been so much built, it has never been so many projects carried out and therefore all praises to the Ministry, to you here present and holding secretary Mr. Bačić, who is not here today because of other obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34933	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34934	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I picked up this replica after these praises at the end, but it doesn't matter I won't look back on it. Namely, Mr. Matušić is responsible for Mr. Grubisic's story with the wines, he described well what it was really about. But I think we could do one thing that wouldn't do the islanders any harm, and in any case, it would help people from the mainland to understand a little bit better what it's all about. In fact, I really think that outside of the season other than June to September or even beyond, the price of tickets for vehicles and people who are not on the island should be equal to those on the island, so to introduce vignettes and those people who want to come to the island during the winter. I think we need them to live a little. But since it is a relatively small number of people who use Jadrolinija's services in winter, from land they go to the islands, and especially from the continental part of Croatia that the part would not in any case burden the state budget. Well, in that sense, I would ask Mr Matusic for support for the idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34935	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34936	Well, I thank you. Of course you know as well as I do how people live on islands. I'd be happy if that transport was free in winter times. If it could be made possible. Of course, however, it costs an enormous amount. There would certainly be legitimate objections from other parts of Croatia that the funds might need to be directed at other projects. But we try to make it really that price to be so stimulating to those who want to visit the islands in the winter period, because I believe that this social infrastructure that is built on islands, that in some way it will be able to attract those who want to come to the island from the mainland and actually enjoy the beauty of these islands and thus help them actually develop further. But of course you have support and I think that support should primarily be directed to a ministry that has so far been understood and that will certainly have a future understanding of all the projects that are connected to the islands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34937	And we still have one discussion, the distinguished representative of Denesh Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34938	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Secretary with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. Let me get into the debate a little bit, although I would, my intention is actually to make a request to Mr. Secretary of State about this issue. In fact, when we considered this matter for 2007, then colleague Caine did not have it here today, he said in fact required in some way, that the peninsula of Istria might in some way be involved in this problem and something here in a material sense probably profited. Then I was thinking about this problem and I came up with the idea that I would set a lot more, is this not justified at all, one more legitimate requirement to consider in this context the possible position of Baranja, because in Baranja in the Republic of Croatia it is possible to come by bridge or boat, or by some kind of company. I'm not saying this by accident, but I'm really asking this question to be considered, because it's an area of special national concern for the first category and not to talk about war events and everything that happened in that area right now. Namely, when you look at these items exactly as much and where it is invested, then I really don't have any objections in this respect, because everything there is certainly justified and necessary, but there are walks, morgues, sports ports, gasification of various sports playgrounds, kindergartens, mangers, etc. And they're not even small items. Even when a man looks at it, he really has to think a little bit about the overall situation that can be done here. Indeed, our area is somehow involved. We've been torturing each other for 10 years now to build a port in Batina. And the projects are already at the end, and one part of the project is over. However, there is no material coverage and then it happens to us that tourists coming from Budapest and passing by Batina, Baranja and Kopački rit must go to Vukovar and return by bus to visit Kopački rit and possibly some of our basements. On the other hand, it's a strange formula for some of these expenditures and investments, and it's really hard for a man to understand. Here, let's say you have 360 grand in order to edit the environment of kindergartens. When I thought about it, if that's it, and we're sorting those environments in a different way. We are happy now if we can buy at an affordable price 10 meters of acacia because we do not have central heating, that the children are heated over winter. I mean, it's some kind of relationship very strange in that sense. Or, say, this item, I don't know this Billy Breg how big a place it is, how many students there are, but 10 million schools. Look, it's gotta be really one school I don't know about all the standards, etc. but I do stress that I have nothing against it, but I advocate that we consider these things and find a formal legal possibility to include a real consideration of Baranja in this context that legal regulations allow for such investments and, if we do so, a short time ago, my colleague Matušić said that this was properly resolved by the laws. If they did, then those legal regulations would be even more high-quality by my deep conviction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34939	Thank you. Does a government official want to take a word for it? Yeah. Here you go. Dear Željko Tufekčić State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34940	Here is only the final debate on the neglect of other areas of the Republic of Croatia in relation to the islands here is the debate on the implementation of the Law on Islands and here are all the items, all projects from various ministries, from various state-owned companies, are realised on islands and that is, the figure in this year at the level of a billion and 700 million kuna. It is and it looks impressive. However, what I was going to say is that the Republic of Croatia, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is leading one uniform policy of regional development throughout its territory, that, if for other areas of the Republic of Croatia as well as for Slavonia and Baranja or for any other region, the figures would be united in order to be equally impressive. Here, I personally until two years ago until the separation of ministries I was in the Ministry of Regional Development, so I know how many projects, how much money was invested in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County, in the area of Osijek-Baranja County, the city of Beli Manastir, the Princes of Vinograd, etc. You said yourself that Baranja has a status. The princes of Vineyards have the status of the special state care area of the 1st group. I think that by virtue of this law many areas which were clearly intensities of this law have been given certain privileges but the possibilities to come to certain aids in a easier and more appropriate way first of all from the state budget and then beyond. And I think it follows that law, that good effects have been achieved, and it's still being implemented. The Osijek Airport was mentioned by Mr Grubisic. In recent years, the Republic of Croatia has invested around 110 million kuna in Osijek Airport alone. In addition to this amount from the national budget, 4-5 million kunas of current aid are allocated annually for the functioning of Osijek Airport because, unfortunately, given today's traffic, it fails to exist alone as an economic operator. It seems to be an effort to be able to do so in the coming years. Here, I just wanted to say that when one investment table is made like this for one area in one place, then it looks like that area gets significantly above the other. However, I think that if it were made for others separately, many would be surprised at how much it invests in other parts. And here's only if this is the end of the debate, I don't know if anyone else has. I would like to express my satisfaction that the three reports so far have been almost unanimously accepted by the Croatian Parliament. It seems to me from the debate that it should be this time. I think that's what this is about, the quality of the implementation of the Law on Islands, the government policy that leads towards the islands, and I can only say that it will continue in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34941	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34942	Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct an incorrect allegation that Mr. Secretary of State has mentioned three times, which is that he used a completely unnecessary word impressive. During last year's debate, Minister Kalmeta, with the word impressive, of course, marked a certain kind of euphoria, Minister Calmeta, quote him, said, "There is no reason for euphoria, there is reason to be pleased.". For that very reason, I suppose there's no need to talk about impressive or any other figures that would give away certain euphoria. So I think that's why this report has always been accepted unanimously because we've come to the conclusion that the state is investing as much as it can. If it was a little bit more, it would be good, but it's not tragic that it's this big. In that sense, I hope that this report will also be accepted unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34943	Okay, we'll tolerate it. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when they get the necessary conditions. That would end the morning session. We will continue at 15 hours and 15 minutes with the 10th agenda and this is the proposal for a strategy for the energy development of the Republic of Croatia. I ask all MPs to be in the assembly at 3:15 p.m. so that they can complete their agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34944	21. Report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2008. The debate is concluded in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies. I'm voting on the next conclusion. This report shall be adopted on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2008. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by most votes, 102 votes for and 2 abstentions. I don't mind. So we move to the point of the updated agenda that's read here: Ivo Sanader on the job of Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Here you go. [[Mr. President.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34946	On behalf of the HNS Club. This is an extremely important point, as the prime minister is known to be elected in Parliament, this is a special situation and at the same time two important committees have been convened with amendments to the two laws. Therefore, the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system and the Committee on Law. And I'm kind of asking if it's possible that when these committees finish their work, then we can discuss this extremely significant point.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34947	I have suggested that we discuss this point because it is not necessary for committees to discuss it. Let's buy some time. I'll tell you what we're up to. We will discuss the point of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Fractional of the Central Authorities of the State Administration with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal of the Law. In order for this to be in line with the law and the Constitution, this should be discussed, decisions should be taken, decisions taken by the President of the Republic so that we can discuss tomorrow after and if he is given the mandate for the composition of the new Government of Mrs Jadranka Kosor, which there are no obstacles to the political ones, then tomorrow we could discuss the government's proposal and make a decision about it. In this way, we will be aware of this time between, I say, the resolutions of one government and the appointments of the next government and that normal government can work. That's our goal. However, if anyone has any objections about the need to be passed before these two laws, then discuss resignation, please. I don't mind, but I hope we all want to settle this issue in a normal legal procedure as soon as possible for a hundred reasons that we don't need to explain here right now, I think we're all clear. Mr. Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34948	Yes, Mr. President, we all want that resignation accepted as soon as possible. But let the Prime Minister show himself to us. Let him give us an explanation. If it wasn't an accident that someone was threatening him, I don't know. Let another threaten to threaten him, his family. Let's stop guessing about those reasons. I don't know if anyone in this house really knows the real reasons, not even you, Mr. President. And so much would be really correct, fair to the Parliament he worked with for six years, and he sat in it for another ten years longer, to show us and simply explain the reasons that motivated him to resign. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34949	We have heard your proposal, but neither legal nor business obligations speak of it nor of the Rules of Procedure nor of the Law. I am acting accordingly on the basis of the documents that we have come into this regard and we will do everything that is normal and as provided for by the Rules of Procedure regarding the resolution and appointment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. All the other arguments you've made, I'm not competent, nor will I comment on them, nor do I think they're binding on our debate. So, as regards Mrs Pusic's proposal to wait for the committee's report on two of these proposals under points 7 and 8, to supplement the agenda, if you think this is necessary before the debate on the resignation of the Prime Minister begins. I believe that the debate may take place so that committees can bring their views in the meantime and that we will not lose time to achieve that purpose that I have already said that, in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure, we will resolve it in as short a time as possible. Therefore, I suggest we move on to the debate - resignation of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Dr. Ivo Sanader, I am opening a debate on the resignations you received on the benches. ... On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr Andrija Hebrang. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34950	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So here's on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club a brief review of the situation we've found ourselves in, a situation that we can find unusual. It is unusual because for the first time in Croatia's 20-year history, the prime minister resigns, and thus the entire government. Unconventional for Croatia, but very common for democratic countries of Europe and beyond. Even because of what happened in Croatia for the first time, the state has caused a lot of excitement and various reactions, of course. What I think needs to be determined is that the Croatian State is firm about its legal frameworks, firm about its democratic frameworks, and therefore has every assumption that this kind of period is over without any problems and without any lasting consequences. This is why we first want to send a message to the Croatian public, which is the situation we will address within the framework of existing regulations, within a stable state. The Croatian state authorities are functioning, the Croatian Parliament is functioning and I think we will prove this time that as a mature state we are able to do very easily, but according to the envisaged procedures, we will also get through these unusual situations. Therefore, there is no instability, there is no fear of any messy events. Croatia will show that it is going further under such conditions, which means that the appropriate bodies have predicted everything necessary by procedure, as you heard from President Bebić, that a new government is being appointed as soon as possible under the laws and the Constitution of the Croatian State. And now a few words about the resignation itself because that's the main topic of this debate. As you know, Prime Minister Sanader resigned, offered his resignation to the parliament, and the Democratic Community Club will support the resignation. The resignation is explained in one way that causes different interpretations. I can talk here about the interpretation of how we understood him, how I personally understood him and about that interpretation with the former Prime Minister Sanader I did not discuss. So, I present a vision between the lines of his resignation that he read before the Croatian public yesterday, said, arises. Prime Minister Sanader spent ten of his most fertile years of life, for the last ten years, at the head of our party, the Croatian Democratic Community and six years at the head of our government. This is the period during which he directed all of his strength and all of his life's energy to one great goal. As far as party life is concerned, there's no place to talk about it here, but I'll just say a fraction of the sentence. As for party life, he focused his energy on making the Croatian Democratic Community from that movement and we can say more or less of the war conditions of action, transforming it into a modern peacetime party of the right centre that can stand by all the popular parties that are in the European Parliament today. So, as for Prime Minister Sanader's six-year term as prime minister, this should really be said at this time of few words. In those six years, President Sanader has directed all his forces, all his knowledge and all his ability towards one goal. This is the European Union. Through this goal he saw the formation of a Croatian state in a modern state, a rule of law, a democratic state, a country with a developed economy, a state with solid social pillars to maintain social balance, a state of tolerance, mutual respect. On that six-year-old road, Prime Minister Sanader led, I would say to drag this very complex and difficult composition to a goal called the European Union. It was brave to stand at the head of such a composition. Of course, before him, that composition was pulled by his other predecessors. But I'd say this was the finish, this was the final phase of those negotiations, where a whole series of big decisions and reforms were to be made. I'll just mention hundreds and hundreds of amendments to laws, regulations and laws. I will mention the reputation of Croatia that has grown in those six years. I will mention very difficult decisions in cooperation with international institutions, very difficult decisions to comply with the provisions of the Constitutional Law on Cooperation with the Court of Justice in The Hague, etc. etc. I will mention only the difficult decisions, the final decisions on the transformation of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces from war to peacetime formation and a whole series of other decisions that we have witnessed and in which we have participated in the Croatian Parliament. On this great road, a man has the right to wear himself out. Prime Minister Sanader said he believes he has done a fairly good part of that trip. And he's really done it. He also said he felt it was now time for others to continue. He won't fully withdraw from politics, and he hasn't ruled out one day his return. What do you read from this data I was just talking about? I am personally reading a message aimed at the great goal of this long and difficult composition that has drawn this burden. This objective is the European Union. The one who put himself in charge of that composition, who was the locomotive that pulled it, has the right to get tired. He didn't get tired because he pulled that composition together with all of us for six years, but he always got ahead, he was always in the first line of defence of Croatia's interest, he was always in the front line of reform procedure, he was always in the first line of establishing diplomatic communication with neighbouring countries. And in that first line, he managed to bring Croatia's reputation to a very high international level, of course with the participation in this work and the President of the State and our Ministry of Foreign Affairs and previous governments and all of us who have communicated and communicated with other countries. What happened to the composition whose train went and was dragged with a locomotive called Ivo Sanader. She came across a mustache. The mustache has set our goal or rather a part of our goal. This is the European Union. Some members of the European Union were not in favour of Croatia achieving its objective. We have accomplished all the tasks, made huge reforms, and we have been a role model for countries in the region. One part of the Member States, a small part of the European Union, did not accept this. Croatia's entry into the European Union did not coincide with their interests and the mustache stood before Sanader and his composition. I believe that his resignation, I am firmly convinced of it even though I did not discuss it with him, that his resignation was a specific political language-oriented rebellion against that moustache that unjustly, unjustly and unwarrantedly stopped us. Croatia has gone along and towards the European Union's goal very bravely and proudly. We were ahead of reforms and we wanted and we were a role model for countries in the region. We have calculated that the European Union will recognise these efforts, that the European Union will take Croatia into its wing and membership to encourage other countries in the region because this is unusually important for the stability of this part of Europe. Unfortunately, in this corner of Europe, it didn't happen, and I'm asking what kind of example we're going to be when we've done everything, and we've got nothing. What kind of example will we set for other countries in the region? Maybe that's the message Prime Minister Sanader was trying to say. The way I think about it is the echo of his resignation that just shows with is a job he's been doing big. His resignation was commented by all EU member states yesterday. His resignation was commented by the president of the European Commission. His resignation was also commented by the State Department in the United States. So this proves that Croatia has achieved its status in the world with which it has become a factor in international policy, because it would not have been these all reactions to its resignation. I think a man who sacrifices the most fertile part of his life for one purpose, if he doesn't reach it, and without his guilt he has the right to rest. And so I realized that resignation, and I'm reading it among the lines of yesterday's speech by Prime Minister Sanader. If we understand that resignation then I think that it is useful for Croatia, because it will make some people think, and it is up to us not to stop the composition in front of the mustache, but to try to lift it up, we are still trying with this composition in Europe, which means that we continue to carry out reforms and still stand firm in that direction, but under one condition that maybe Europe has not accepted so far, and that is that we will not pay only one single price for entering that goal, which is giving or trading in their own territory. It's something that's the limit of our constitution, it's something that's the limit of our sovereignty, it's something that's the limit of our patriotism and what's the limit of our policy. It's the only condition we won't pay. So, we will continue the path that Sanader drew, through which all his predecessors in previous governments started, we will continue on our way to the European Union, but proudly raised heads without selling territories and without selling what no people of the European Union sold, which is their own national pride. By reading this resignation, I think it will be useful for Croatia internationally. I think it will result in some positive steps towards Croatia, and I expect that after a certain period of time, its driver will return to the locomotive, to start a new cycle, which is a cycle of stronger, faster, more intense economic development in Croatia as a member of the European Union. Therefore, I support this resignation and we suggest that it be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34951	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34952	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. This isn't one common situation. This situation never happened anywhere. This is not the prime minister's resignation behind which the prime minister gave an explanation for his resignation. So, the prime minister's resignations, of course, happen in all countries and in different situations for several reasons. The resignation was due to the failure to implement the government programme that Parliament has adopted and then the prime minister says, listen to me resigning, I am unable to implement the programme. Whether for personal, health, family reasons, in which case the prime minister says listen, the reasons are family or health. In some countries such as the United States, the president has an obligation to publish his health newsletter once a year. There is no need for Croatian opportunities to go into that kind of detail, but it can be said and everyone can understand that and accept that argument. After that, there's no talking about it. The resignation may also result from the loss of support within its party or within the parliamentary majority. You don't need to call right away, I don't think that's it, but maybe if you do, maybe that's the reason. Therefore, resignation can be the result of various causes. But the resignation can't go without the prime minister's explanation. The prime minister's resignation is a situation where a man in the election and pre-election offered citizens as the leader of a party a kind of social contract and told people, support me and my party, fellow citizens, support me and my party, we will do this job for you for 4 years. And people said good. And after that, without justification after 2 years or less than 2 years, so less than half of the commitment made by the prime minister without reason says to me it's time for a fresh start. Well, it won't be. There can't be a moment for a new beginning in the middle of a term of office. It may be at the end of the term of office, there may be extraordinary circumstances that force a man simply for these reasons that I have led him to fulfill his obligation, but he cannot without reason. With reason for me, it is time for the prime minister to give up a social contract with the citizens of this country through the election mechanism. Therefore, the prime minister's resignation is this. One single sentence is the resignation of the prime minister, which he now spoke very favorably of, so in his opinion, a successful prime minister is one sentence. I think he's sending us a message. Everyone would expect it to exist and the other thing is that it's said in the media. Of course, the prime minister can neither, nor should, nor is it appropriate to resign through the media, but in this Parliament which has chosen him, the prime minister must, when resigning, say why. Is one of these 3 reasons why resignations are most often made in all countries or perhaps some 4 or 5 reasons, but cannot be resigned without reason. Such resignations, in particular, always in much older countries and institutionally more stable and consolidated than Croatia has always caused a certain amount of uncertainty and destabilises the functioning of institutions. In our terms of resignation without reason, I just point it out here, I don't think at all I need to prove because we're all here and all of you sitting there are aware of it, it's caused so much rumor, persuasion, different interpretations. This was all without further ado, and it was very easy to move ahead, prevent, and prevent the resignation from being explained. Without explanation, the whole country is pummeling from the various most amazing interpretations that are all equally likely in this situation. From the cracks within HDZ, conflict, external, internal, such a situation is causing instability and is bad for the country. In these conditions, so when we get a resignation without an explanation, the only possible explanation in my opinion is either that Prime Minister Sanader or Prime Minister in the resignation of Sanader concluded, and he didn't want to write that the country is in too much trouble right now and that he doesn't feel able to continue to lead, and if so, he should have written it. Another possible interpretation is that someone pressed or blackmailed him. There are no other possibilities for interpretation. No one has ever resigned as prime minister since in the middle of his term he concluded that it is time for him to start over. It simply cannot convince anyone, and resign without reason is absolutely a cause for all this in interpretations and what will one day come out of sight, which in the interpretations of the car by the earth. There is no doubt that this process, with its resignation Ivo Sanader, weakens any future government that will eventually gain confidence in this House, and I have assessed that the tasks are difficult even when it is in the government. So, what we can expect from a government that without it will have to do a job that he estimated was too heavy. So, completely inappropriately unseen that without leaving with an explanation, for me began a new beginning, or a moment for a new beginning giving a resignation, and we all know that's not so. We all know that's not true, but because there's no explanation, we don't know what the real reason is, and that's the destabilising factor in the country. It may be that the reasons are different failures, the frustrations he experienced on the road, achieving or trying to achieve goals, including one mentioned by fellow Hebrang with the European Union. But all of this can be done on the one hand in an explanation, and on the other hand when the tasks are complicated and difficult, it just means that it needs to be tighter on their resolution and certainly not gone. And finally, the prime minister in this country is elected by Parliament. And when he is running for prime minister in front of this House, he sits here waiting for Parliament to plead on his or her candidacy and support him and hold him well or do not support him. The minimum of respect for the institutions of the Croatian state, and especially for the Croatian Parliament, is to act the same way when resigning. If he came here for his term, he should have come here and returned his term. And the fact that he's sending us one sentence on a piece of paper, dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm going now. This is not respect for Croatian institutions, this is the Croatian Parliament he deserves, since he chose the prime minister of this country to come and resign and say why he is leaving. I personally won't vote to accept this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34953	Thank you. On behalf of the HSLS Club, HSU Mr. Representative. And to forgive, there is one correction, Mr. Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34954	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Pusic, allow me to correct your incorrect allegations that you have repeatedly repeated that this is not a reasoned resignation. Mr. Prime Minister has clearly explained his resignation. If it's her and her personal nature, she's reasoned. It is the impression that you are very dissatisfied not because the prime minister did not explain the resignation, but because he did not explain it to the reasons that you want them to be. And that's a disagreement within the party, that's this, that's what it is, etc. It's not there. So he couldn't explain his resignation the way you wanted him to. He left behind a stable government, left a stable majority. So it's not about anything you said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34955	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34956	In 209th, Mr. President, my colleague Bagaric spoke of the impression I am making, which may be his impression, but certainly not a correction of the incorrect assumption, can't be the correction of the incorrect assumption that I am making. And as for the stable government, Prime Minister Sanader has left no government, because at this point the government is resigning.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34957	I will have to warn that it is the duty of anyone who calls for a breach of the Rules of Procedure to first state the number of articles of the Rules of Procedure that have been injured. And secondly, Mr. Bagaric found that you said that and said that, then he said that that was not true. And that's enough to correct an incorrect allegation. It's Mr. Agent Ivan Chehok on behalf of the HSLS and HSU Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34958	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. If it is at all possible to talk about democratic maturation or progress in democratic consciousness, then it is certainly a matter of political pedagogy to teach one political community that no government is eternal, that everyone is subject to both personal and shared, both private and public, and political and less political reasons for which the government is created and is failing. And that it is in some way a matter of political education, political pedagogy, that we all learn together that in Parliament, perhaps even after being elected or completely certain before we expect one government to leave and disband and that we must choose another government or that we must reconstruct the governments we have already experienced. Today we are facing a whole new event, I would say to one also democratic challenge to realize that the prime ministers are not eternal and yet that you do not get me wrong, but at least all of us living every day or 10 years in the executive power, it is something else to sit in the Assembly chair, the second is to lead the city, the county, the chief government or the ministry. In this daily hectic, in the daily rush, in the heat, in the grip, and in cooperation with the born, and in the resolution operation, what difficulties of running the organization, it is certain that man is spent. It takes a little bit of time like that, and that's sometimes classy, even if you want to make some big decisions. And we as humans have a right to them. Little does it take for a man to understand what Erich Fromm once said that the drive for self-preservation is still stronger than the urge for power. And many who wonder why at the peak of their power or why a man who has all the political power concentrated because it is necessary to acknowledge that Ivo Sanader ruled in a bit of an office style why he left. It is precisely because this urge for self-preservation, for the personal integrity of the physical, spiritual, personal, if you want and the integrity of your own consciousness, conscience is still stronger than the drive or instinct for power and maintenance, so if you need government as well as certainly the institutions of Croatian and any other society in which all the power of politics is really focused. We will, of course, speculate on this, but the personal reasons since they always rest on their conscience are unspeakable. A conscience is a voice that is hardly convincing, hard to express, and it is certain that personal reasons do not need to be particularly explained. Of course, as much as we call for our personality and as often as it is said that many political decisions depend exactly on personality, we are aware that we do not have the right to personal reasons and that we will often be resented when we state them, that we must stop our own personal reasons and personal attitudes, so if you want, here is such a cruel decision, or maybe you should classify ourselves more and we should actually follow some common or general reasons of public, political or whatever you want to call it. And it is therefore strange that not even two years after the election, after leading the lists, after in a little bit of my opinion being strained by a media-exposed personal campaign for prime ministers, which was not only done by a fellow Sanader but also by the rest of the list holders, that a man decided to do so not even two years after the election and almost half of his term. However, I guess to say that my colleague Pusic was wrong, so did Blaire and handed the mandate to Brown. ... Whether announced or not, this has been done in the course of the term of office. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So it was made in the country a cradle of liberal democracy and it's not something that's unusual. This has been done in other countries, and it is likely to happen as a consequence of this general financial economic crisis that has affected all countries in our environment and the whole of Europe and the entire Western world. And I think that we should accept this resignation with my disdain that it should have been done in parliament and that as hard as it was for him to come before us because we chose him and he was the Prime Minister of all, and opposition and positions. So it does not depend on whether someone voted for it or not, yet parliament is the most legislative and representative body in which the government is elected and if the government falls then I think it would be good to talk about it equally in parliament. I say again, I can understand his human reasons, as Nitcze would say, "The human being is too human."but I think that when it comes to at least having to present and at least if you do not already explain and tell the MPs then such a personal reason should also be personally submitted. What I would not like first of all in this House, however strong and slightly charismatic a person is, in particular, that we begin such a debate and that we lead it, so that in some way we transfer it into the consciousness of our citizens that some kind of cult of personality is being re-created and that it is said that now we should call elections because the Government without Sanader will no longer be such a government. Of course, every departure of each minister and especially the Prime Minister creates new relations, leads to new staff changes and shifts, creates, of course, new organisational mechanisms because every man has his own rule or style of management, but I think Croatia is tired of us unfortunately experiencing a bad foreign cult personality and has proved that after strong people in politics there are enough replacements, there are enough of those who can continue the job. The parliamentary majority exists in this institution, it is strong enough and unique enough to propose a new government, so that it can propose a government reconstruction. And what is even more important in my opinion today is that it can also change the government's action programme because we all know that at the time of the coalition agreement, when it was adopted, when the government's programme was signed and when it was adopted here that we still couldn't see it, we didn't even have any announcements, we certainly couldn't see the consequences of this devastating crisis that affected the whole of Europe, and which, in my personal opinion, will now be the most powerful affecting Croatia. Therefore, this is an opportunity to consider, with the departure of former Prime Minister Sanader, not only personal changes but perhaps new principles of governance and governance, and then, of course, in the new programme of the next government. If this government has a parliamentary majority as it has so far, then we can expect it to be as stable, regardless of what may be the key cohesion figures will not be in it. After all, governments and parliaments do not exist to support one man, but all of us as policymakers should give common support to what we have in common in parliament and agree. In the end, I would personally like my colleague Sanader to rest well. I think Croatia said it was tired of us imposing any cult personality today, let's go pick a new government. There's a lot of work ahead of us. Any cowardice and abandonment, ladies and gentlemen, would mean that the resignation or giving up of a man is our joint giving up. That can't happen to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34959	Thank you. Mr. Representative Damir Cain on behalf of the IDS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34960	Calm them down a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34961	Apparently, they're anticipating future speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34962	Let me say it myself. Yes, I was surprised by Mr. Sanader's resignation. To be honest, I was expecting a strong Sanader campaign. Now, don't run, yell, not one cowardly maneuver. But I was also surprised by the speech of the president of the HDZ Club, he almost shocked me. Am I sorry about Sanader leaving? No, I don't. I'm sorry it hasn't been done before. I regret that it was done in the course of the tourist season, but as Mr. Chehok says, and resignation is for people. Croatia will go on without Mr. Sanader. For his years in the government, I don't think he should be too sorry, not to cry. You don't have to feel sorry for him either. What should be said, however, Croatia can do a little left, unfortunately we are, more to the right, but Croatian institutions are stable, and I don't think that's very small right now. And now we see who destabilized them most. The fact that Croatian institutions are stable is the most valuable. Jamaica of this stability is the President of the Republic, the Croatian National Bank, it can also be the responsible Croatian Parliament, the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court. We have formed a local self-government and it is certain that democracy in this country will not be suspended. It's just that people should be told who are out there, who are watching this, that there's no panic in this country, that our banking system is stable, that factories are doing, as we know it, schools are on fairies. The season's up, the season's up, agriculture's up. Don't be afraid, Croatia can do without Sanader. Croatia can simply do without those who leave the ship or who run away. Now, why did Mr. Sanader resign? He is aware first of all of the position this country is in. Gross product -6.7%, it's the biggest gross product drop since '99. A year. '99. The year was the year NATO struck on SR Yugoslavia, we had lost tourist season, 25 billion kuna indifference, banks failed as non-current tape, and the decline in gross products was 1.5%. This year it means 4.5 times the size of '99. year, and that means Croatia's most difficult period will be in the post-presidential elections. The Croatian economy certainly cannot recover, even starting to recover before the end of 2010, it is that simple. Trade -16%, exports -14.2%, imports -20.9%, personal consumption -9.9%. She needs to be picked up. Investments -12%. Rebalance must be now. If not, it'll be safe at nine months. The kuna should be kept, to paraphrased one great Croat, as the pupil of my eye. Who brought Croatia into this situation? I say, among other things, the government of Eve Sanader. I agree with what you're telling me is a gross social product, that purchasing power fell in Germany 6.9%, Slovenia 8.5%, Italy 5.4%, Japan 9.1%). I know that Croatia does not live under a glass bell and Croatia is reflected in this crisis that the Government is having a hard time affecting today. Tourist arrivals are lower, our exports are lower. Clearly, if the drop in purchasing power is in France, England, we can't, say, sell car parts from the cimos of Buzet. Foreign investments small, foreign workers' accounts lower, economic activity in the country lower. However, the Croatian government has led one wrong policy and this policy leads the country to a breakdown, which I would say even see best those who come from those areas where something is done in this country. Exports, for example. Istrian counties twice as big as the Primorje-Gorski County. No kuna comes down on the basis of guarantees, we've got sanitized systems, ipsilone is even working without a single kuna from budget money, etc., etc. And that's why I like to say a lot with the existing redistribution policy, that one works, and that the other spends, it can no longer be, and that's why Croatia needs and urgent rebalancing, right now call the IMF, if it won't come in the first, second month 2010. It is necessary to preserve a strong kuna, CNB autonomy and radically decentralisation of Croatia because this form of governance from a centre of departure of Sanader has collapsed. However, what is most needed in this country? In my court, it's an early election. I agree, after the tourist season. I propose a date of 20.9. New policy...... 20th of this year, in two and a half months. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] New policy must be chosen by citizens. Let them choose whom gentlemen will, Mr. Hebrang, let them choose you, let them choose Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, if they want Ivo Sanader, but let's ask the gentlemen what they think. It's the only way to start over. And this country has to make a cut and a budget, a lot of this kind of redistribution. All of them are more important than those who work, and so should this country pull out of one apathy, and some moral depression as to how to express myself, we're not going to do anything, and we're looking for everything, but these people can't do it right now. And the country needs a new power, and I would say not these transparent maneuvers that are in action today. It's the only way to restore faith in power. It's the only way we can have citizens with some power. The second thesis that exists in public is she's leaving to go back, but Ivo Sanader, I'm going to say that too, isn't Mrs. Stipe Mesic. Stipe Mesic broke up with the ruling oligarchy and confirmed himself in the ruins of one government and then returned. And our current prime minister, in resignation, escaped and was exhausted as Mr. Hebrang said. I think this time the spins were wrong to advise him that everyone would cry and that in the 10th month, 11th month, the citizens would beg again to return. I think you overestimated the people this time. I also agree, as the Czech Republic said, that the job of prime minister in this country is the hardest job. You can't always bear just good news, you can't always tell your team how to tell the electorate to share nice gifts, Pelješki bridge, bridge over Drava, highway. Well, these local elections have been promised at least one billion not dollars but euros in various projects. What's left of these projects at the moment? Well, we all know that, there's nothing left. All of this needs to be revised. These extracurricular funds this Parliament de facto has no control over. It is necessary to return it to the Parliament or to the budget to see where the funds go. Money should begin to be directed into other activities that will quickly return money, hospitals, stimulated and villa Eve Sanader and then buy the village. Stimulate the interest economy, not just one branch, even if it's agriculture, because with one and a half billion kuna, maybe if we co-finance interest, we can save the industry, which I know the auto-industry, the wood industry, and in the end, if they work, then we can save agriculture. What I'm also trying to say is that in some way, this leverage would have to be the end of Sanader's policy, which clearly I personally want every good. Let a man live for a hundred years, but that policy must come from us, not to return again as it is told. This opportunity is an opportunity and for the opposition, I will say nothing more to the heads together. Time can show that this decision to leave may be the best decision made on the other side of Mark's square in the last six years. But then let's not overrule the government, 'cause that's not gonna do any good. Then let's go to the election. We've heard a lot lately, read in the media. I also agree that no right-hand coup has occurred in HDZ, etc. I believe, on the other hand, that the decision was made on Sunday. I really believe that. What I admire, however, is that this time, the actors did not leak anything until Thursday morning. That's what I really admire. I can't say, I'm also going to say that in the last six years in this country nothing has been done. At one point, Croatia became a favorite of Europe to be stopped in 2009, not only because of this Slovenian insolence but also what we are doing. That flirtation I know, I've been doing a little bit of staging, a little bit of corruption, and not counting any further. And that may be a bigger reason why we are stopped on that road than this Slovenian insolence. I also don't think some things are well done. Well done, we've opened up to our neighbours, according to minorities, NATO, something towards the European Union, The Hague, respects CNB autonomy, solid kuna, stable banks. But where's the problem? No matter what the decline of that gross product is 6.7% and in Germany 6.9% we are gentlemen in bananas. It is necessary to secure foreign exchanges for imports, to secure foreign debt payments, to cut subsidies. One word needs to redefine this centralization. It's just us at this point with the capacities at our disposal we can't. And that's why this fall is more tragic with us than it is in some other countries. For the end of what I say. For a new policy, I guess new people are needed. New Croatia also needs new people. I don't know about the better future. I don't know about any new content. The one who will lead Croatia in a year I would even dare say can be the most aggressive, most unpopular person in Croatia. It should be cut, but also between Croatia and popularity should be selected Croatia. And people need to be clearly told we don't, we don't, and we can't just give. As for Mrs. Kosor, I'll talk about it tomorrow. I respect the lady. We have a correct relationship, but I don't understand why at this point she accepts this function, but to be so little free under quotes I admire that courage. But also tomorrow she will also be the most famous person in Croatia. So let her be brave and propose elections. Is this procedure legitimate to what's going to happen today, tomorrow? It is. Is it common? Someone mentioned Blair. That Hungarian guy did the same thing months ago. Probably so, but nobody's ever left without the gentlemen saying why he was leaving. And that's the point and that's what upset Croatia. And that's why our people are angry, disappointed, surprised, I don't know how angry. And that is why it is important to talk about the stability of institutions even though they were threatened by the one who may have been with President Mesic and the most responsible. I am pleased that Mr Hebrang has indicated that the world cannot expect a twist in Croatian politics. Are we gonna speed up the approaches I don't know. We will have to face problems in the country alone, defend institutions, have a clear confidence in citizens as someone has said to serve citizens etc. I clearly wish everyone every good. We'll be for this resignation. We won't be clear to the government, even though I would like the government to succeed as sincerely. And why maybe Sanader had to resign? Why didn't he make it? So because he is surrounded by people, and there are many sitting in this House who have not had the courage to tell him that Croatia is not going in the right direction, you are not doing well. People are often deceived. Look where it's going. Let's tell the people the truth. You can't always bear the good news. That's not how it works. In the end, you just have to wear out. This resignation says I'd say about those Croatian sluts if I didn't tell the assholes. For Croatia is the worst silence! We need to speak and we need to tell the truth, and if we surround the right people, I'm convinced this country will succeed. I'm reading today on the portals that the Prime Minister has been sleeping well in his resignation. I'm very glad, but I don't know if those workers in May 3rd, the Queen, Trogir, Split slept as well, and I don't think I'm counting any further.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34963	I don't know if you have an impression like me that the presidential campaign started a little early? It is the turn of the HSS Club and Mr. Vice President and Representative Joseph. A correction! Excuse me. Then he has Franjo Lucic first. I wish they were gone, so I ignore them. Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34964	Well, Mr. President, I think this is really Mr. Cain's exposure to comment too much, and it would be best if we didn't report to him at all, because what he said today would be best if he said it on another stage but where he was going to entertain people. This embarrassing speech in Parliament where you speak falsely, where you talk about the fall of GDP in Croatia 6.4 or 7% while at the same time accusing the government, the president, and you say that in all other countries, there is a far greater fall. So you disown yourselves, and you cannot kill what you say. But this isn't the first time you come forward like this because you're showing your value, showing your dignity to spit on every place and on your way out for this pay phone. I haven't heard you say anything positive in two years. This is a shameful speech and stands you up as a representative in this Croatian Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34965	Thank you. I warn those who enter on the one hand, that when it comes to being on the other hand to consider it and to remember it sometimes. Mr. Andrija Hebrang, also a correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34966	Thank you very much. I'm correcting an incorrect quote from my colleagues. He said, quote, "Ivo Sanader is exhausted, as Mr. Hebrang said." I didn't say he was exhausted. I've explained why I think he resigned, but it's just a bit of a complicated way of expressing himself, so now I'm going to say it simpler. He did not wear out, but is protesting those who have stalled in Croatia's negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34967	Mr. Joseph Friscic, vice president on behalf of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34968	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and fellow MPs. Surely a moment for a country, for Parliament when the Prime Minister resigns is not easy, but the Parliament is a body that must be discussed and soberly. A body that has to and can find a solution that I am convinced of because it has citizens' trust and responsibility to the citizens, but it is also the right of each of us, as well as Dr. Ivo Sanader to choose a moment and a way to explain it. All of us sitting here doing politics because we chose it, that's our choice. Every one of you, I believe, because that's what I feel, feeling both weight and responsibility and spending. We often experience the answer as a disappointment because, as we do not, there is no us, the question is where we are, if we do not live very well, if we do not eat cheaply and that I do not now, and when it comes to the Prime Minister, then it is certainly just a few times more powerful and more reflective towards him. The explanation we've received is an explanation that we can discuss here, speculate, but I wouldn't get into it. I'd like to say something here because the government's period is ending with Eve Sanader, and I'm sure this House needs to talk about what he said about us, what our goals are and under what conditions. When it comes to our goals, the goals of this country in relation to the world, Europe, then not once repeated how much work should be done, but we have succeeded. These are the recognitions when it comes to our status in the United Nations, these are the recognitions when it comes to our entry into NATO and the third goal that has certainly not once spoken to him, he was putting before him, that was the goal of joining the European Union. Getting in is not the way someone takes us in because we think that's where we belong. Because he is through the programme and through speeches and through conversions, but also through the efforts he has made to seek reforms in Croatia. In some field, it went faster, somewhere slower. It's safe, there's absolutely no pleasure because to end up being satisfied then there's no new challenges, then there's no new needs. But it is also certain that there are none of the people who have followed it, and that there is no space, no need for it as a human being, to be told as Prime Minister a word of gratitude for giving, for serving, for contributing, because some of these contributions are actually inevitable. I can speak as part of the coalition, as a coalition partner, and when it comes to the coalition relations between HDZ and HSS, he had the strength to come and say as president of the strongest party in relation to the party whose president I am, our goal was for you to land on the ground because some thought that it would make us stronger. He said when I was president, from that moment on, that goal did not exist, and after that we became partners, and it did not show up in one place, proved true and confirmed. What has been building in this area for centuries, where it was believed not to succeed either the Homeland War, but that it would become a civil war, it was the attitude of the north and south of Croatia, it was a challenge whether Sanader's government would continue the merger of these areas because as Racan, it began building highways and mergers. He didn't ignore it for one moment and he didn't say that it wasn't the government that started it, and that's not why he said it had to be interrupted, but rather the contrary. Not once did he repeat that this is a condition for the even development of the functioning and creation of stability in this country. That is why I am both pleased and grateful for such relations and for such government leadership, and for such behaviour. When it comes to relations with neighbors, surely he did a lot here and trust me that he was willing to compromise on which he wasn't ready for what he wasn't just saying, but also proved, then the blockage of many chapters would be gone. But he said I wouldn't give a pedal to the Croatian country either. But not just here in front of us, but where we talked about it because if he had run a double policy, then one day we'd just be put before the final act that somewhere else was arranged. And if that's the reason or one of the reasons where he felt that it's fifth speed no longer shows sufficient speed of movement, so it's conditioned a certain stalemate, then I also think that we in this House, but we in the HSS certainly support it because it's the defence of national interests where it remains consistent. If someone is always, and is talking about the budget here today, about the rights and possibilities of the budget, but if someone in the first plan always pointed out that they should take care of the renewal and through the legal documents, and through the budget, that they should take care of the defenders who are all together and without them would not have been created, then he did so. And that's also something to pay his respects to. It's also certain that, each of us has it, had his own way and style of work. It would be bad if he didn't have it, if he tried to be somebody's replica. But it is also certain that he was able to establish dialogues, because the social partnership in Croatia, the talks with trade unions, employers and the government and in very complex situations gave a solution, he defeated reason, unlike many countries where other processes took place in similar situations, where these processes had different consequences. And finally, on behalf of the HSS Club, as a coalition partner, as a man who sat with him and created a program, I would like to thank this coalition government for its cooperation, for sincerely respecting what we have agreed and with one faith. That he took a break, but on the political scene of Croatia his ideas, the way of thinking have space and I am convinced and I want him to put his strength back on the table again and that as he said, the policy door did not close. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34969	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34970	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I didn't mean to comment on the speech of my colleague, the esteemed Mr. Fristic, but somehow it was to say sad as if it were some sort of a flight outcome or so is a fatalist speech, like there's no one left, and there's actually one. Today, like the rest of you, I got this piece of paper that contains one single sentence. In which the prime minister, and through the respected President-in-Office of the Parliament, the prime minister resigns to the office of Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. And nothing more. Indeed, it is true of those who commented that there is no explanation. I don't see him. What the Prime Minister or Prime Minister comment on in the press is not presented in front of this House. We're here less than a year and a half ago, the Croatian Parliament, this High House has voted in confidence with the Prime Minister. I also believe that this act of resigning, without reason, without interpretation is also an act to which the Prime Minister should attend. That would be a sign of respect for this High House. This is how it seems to me that our Croatian Parliament is actually belittled. Someone said he wasn't being respected. I would say that he was belittled by Mr. Prime Minister's lack of presence, who could have been here to give us all, if necessary, some interpretations, some answers, some explanations we expected. I expected even more from the president of the HDZ Club, so those who would possibly know something about the reasons, the arguments or the interpretation of this resignation. But here's what they say is tiredness or fatigue, like some material said, or whatever I know. It's an explanation like this if you or your child were to take away a toy so someone took away Europe for a while, so the child won't play anymore. He says I don't play with you anymore. So I'm going to say some kind of delay or trouble, and it's like someone said, it's like an argument to give a resignation and not play anymore. However, Mr Cain still spoke about the condition of the Croatian state. In these six years, the prime minister's role in the Croatian state has increased by 22 billion euros. Citizens know very well that I do not need to interpret and specify the data Mr. Cain has already cited and the others, and it is actually about incompetence and cowardice to deal with such problems or to change a team that does not work well or can not deal with it for another team. Furthermore, they say ambitions and unattainable goals in some people in medicine when explaining the medical phenomenon creates an ulcerous disease, an ulcer on the stomach, etc., and here it has produced the resignation of the prime minister of the Croatian government. A sense of hopeless situation, a heavy burden and such expressions used for the Prime Minister and some arguments really don't make sense. A year and a half ago Croatian citizens gave their votes to HDZ under the leadership of Ivo Sanader for a four-year term and he does not have the right to betray the trust primarily because of HDZ voters. The offer of a replacement or replacement prime minister is indeed one cowardly egg, because we know well that the person who has heard it is proposed, and has not yet been consulted, is actually a obeyer who has carried out all the orders and all the orders that the prime minister has given so far, and has been given the order to accept that function, regardless of all that can be brought down on its back and whatever happens in Croatia, not for its back, but in Croatia at these moments, really difficult moments of economic and difficult negotiations with the European Union in connection with the accession of the European Union. Never and nowhere has anyone said, and nowhere in the history of the Croatian Parliament has such a thing happened, such an object that someone resigned in a single sentence without any explanation or that it did not come before representatives of the Croatian Parliament who have gathered to say in such a number here today, to say. Well, maybe we could help him. Well, we're well-intentioned. I guess we were elected here by citizens who thought that we could do something in this Croatian state all together. Well, I guess we're not the enemies of the Croatian state. ... Not to you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You've helped yourself enough. Therefore, if anyone is said in an epic, julidne and does not strike the goal. So if we didn't finish negotiations with the European Union in 2009 and meet the conditions of accession, then that doesn't mean that we should pull the tail and leave, twist the pardon. That's why I'm not smart, and neither are you HDZ gentlemen whether to accept this resignation or not? Are you smart? You're not. Okay. So they are happy, or happy. But good. So, in a situation like this, it's really hard to be determined to say whether to accept it or not. Given what we have knowledge and what is visible from the action of Mr. Prime Minister HDSSB, I am talking about the impact on certain political persecutions, the instrumentation of authorities for this purpose, etc. The inability to lead the Republic of Croatia is indeed the HDSSB for the prime minister's resignation and we will gladly adopt it. But the suggestion that this crisis, so to say no to the authorities, is solved by imposing a murt or when it goes off, is not for that. We are to conduct extraordinary parliamentary elections. And that citizens decide who will lead this country in view of Prime Minister Sanader's resignation. And that would be what I won't say lay or politically as you will, civil fair to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. That's my opinion, our opinion. And you can think any way you want. Therefore, the HDSSB club will be for resignation, but clearly it will not be for such a maneuver that does not actually fix anything, nothing happens, but that is the power of the laganese person or the man in the shadow who will continue to rule Croatia as prime minister in the shadow, so in the image of Mrs Jadranka Kosor, which is written about by the media, is it? We are for the new extraordinary therefore parliamentary elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34971	The situation is also easier for possible subflation. Namely, Sanader is available he is in Croatia. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34972	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. One of the handicaps is to speak on this occasion in this House, which is all said before you, which means it's less and less clear to everyone. There's no big misunderstanding. First, this is an unprecedented resignation. Croatia is a democracy with all its shortcomings in democracy. Democracys have the same institutions less the same rules, the same procedure. Nowhere but nowhere in the last 50 years has it happened that the first person of the executive authority who draws his mandate out of parliament will not say with such an explanation but without any explanation. And I won't talk about it anymore and I won't invite Ivo Sanader to come to parliament. He didn't come, his civil right to move freely. That's what he said. He didn't come. He doesn't have to come. He's gone, I won't even say he ran away. I had my opinion on what it would be like to run for president of the state. He didn't do it, I was ready to call it an escape attempt, an escape attempt. He left politics, that's what he said. His civil rights. So, in the democracy that we want to be, what we're trying to be, and what's been going on in Europe and America for the last 50 years, it's common when someone goes to say why. Personal reasons are not personal because this is not a personal private matter, this is a public matter, public service, public responsibility, public interest. When Tony Blair was leaving, then that thing was announced, explained. It was clear why he was leaving. When John Major left in 92, he left, in 90, when Margaret Thatcher was leaving and John Major was coming, it was clear why he was leaving, there were clear reasons. There are more examples in Europe when other prime ministers were leaving and coming in the middle of the mandate. We haven't heard any explanation here. The difference is next. There were robust and large parliamentary majoritys. Most of you aren't here. Here, HDZ's final election headed with its president, won voter confidence. He won the relatively small majority with a small head start in the number of votes, gathered on the basis of laws and procedures. ... You see how it it itches, but it's true. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And I'll say it again in less than 15 minutes. You can laugh. Gathered partners, got 50,000 votes more. Ivo Sanader led that government. This is a fundamental issue of political legitimacy. So it is technically possible to vote on a new government, to raise a sufficient number of votes but it is also a political mandate, whether citizens are giving that mandate to a person who will propose for the prime minister in the crisis that we are in. So, once again, no longer. It is a civil right for everyone and the Prime Minister to show one public matter, a matter of great responsibility, a huge burden overnight as a personal matter, to go away and not say a single word about it. It's his thing. However, this next section is extremely important. The person spoken of and proposed for the prime minister does not have that level of political autonomy, I'm sorry if I'm personal, there is no level of political authority. Politically, it's a bad decision. Technically she's completely allowed, it's possible, it's legal. We have some very difficult decisions ahead of us. We talked about the last days and weeks of Croatian consensus. Every nation as a political community of people living in it rests when issues are important in Wednesday at the consensus, a consensus on independence in 90 and 91, a consensus on European and Euro-Atlantic integration, a consensus for the European Union. Unfortunately, that road isn't over. We didn't get to the finish line, and we didn't achieve that goal, but that consensus was unquestionable. Few people in Croatia if they found themselves alone, few who would be against it. The third consensus is developmental. So these first two consensuss were respected and around them were all European and Eastern European nations and Central European nations that came out of one sense of communism, socialism, let's call it whatever we want. And everyone was successful at it, they created countries and less all entered the European Union. This third consensus, the consensus of development, the consensus of strength, identity, resilience, these were few. Unfortunately, this government that will be proposed and under which we will take a political position we will talk about when the time comes for this capacity is not available. The person proposed to be president of the government does not have that authority. Technically right, politically completely wrong, but it's your right. By making such a decision you also take responsibility for what Croatia is going to do. At this point, the only reasonable solution so as to be, is not extraordinary but early parliamentary elections. It's too early because they'd be called in less than four years. There are countries like some in Scandinavia where such a possibility of the Constitution has been prevented, and then there is a civilization culture of minority governments where governments of executives who do not have the support of over 50% of lawmakers have successfully managed for four years. We're not there yet and they're not rich, nor are most European countries. At this point, early elections don't mean card overlaying, because this is one thing for me, for us, wrong card overlaying, just overlaying cards. Early elections are the voice of the public, an expression of the political will of Croatian citizens, of this nation on how to proceed at this difficult moment. It is difficult for everyone, only Poland in the European Union is making some kind of economic growth because it is big and it can serve itself as a market and it is still a developing economy. Everyone else is going down. We are a small country, a country that has a small economy that is fatal, fatefully facing an international exchange of goods and services that does not work without it and the best example of it is tourism and we cannot live without it. We've got sweat and tears ahead of us but also smile and we need to gather around the consensus together. With all due respect, it's time for early elections. The Prime Minister's resignation will, of course, be accepted and the new prime minister won't. Respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34973	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34974	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. We're here to discuss the resignation of the Prime Minister of Dr. Ivo Sanader and only that. And I don't see the space when it comes to discussing much more at this point, with all due respect to those who have discussed here as if it were Dr. Ivo Sanader's departure. I don't think that's what this is about and we can't discuss it. I belong to those who think that the Prime Minister should be here today because above this home there is only one will, and that is the will of the people we represent and other will is gone, cannot be and cannot be. If by any chance we were anything more than that, some realistic democracy, a parliamentary one, perhaps there would be the will of God, but we are not, therefore there is only the will of the people. But that's what the Prime Minister decided, and he decided that we should discuss his resignation. I won't discuss it on behalf of the SDSS club, we've accepted it as coalition partners and we don't see that debate area, as I can see that other colleagues don't see room for discussion either. That's right. But for all of us and above all for those of us who are in the ruling coalition, it's a question of what happens after this. As many unknowns as there are in connection with Prime Minister and HDZ President Dr. Ivo Sanader's decision, the key question for us at this point is that we still retain the stability of political and executive... Because no matter how many questions are raised in this regard, right now until we know more, until we hear more or we recognize more. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why the SDSS club, regardless of all the differences that exist in the coalition, regardless of the disputes we've had, will not only support this resignation, but will also support the further functioning of this government. However, colleagues and colleagues, this should be preceded by a consultation with the President of the Republic. This should be preceded by consultations with the President of the Republic, which should be preceded by our mutual consultations. And then after that, we can discuss it in the Parliament. Today we can only get two conditions. One is to accept the prime minister's resignation and the other is to accept amendments to the Government Act's proposal, and the procedure that is necessary and necessary should be followed. It is necessary to carry out consultations with the President of the Republic as formal as they may seem, but they must be carried out. And on the other hand, we have to do mutual consultation. The third thing I want to say is, of course, we have great temptations and these temptations in front of the ruling coalition will by no means be easy. And in that sense, we should listen not only to what our opposition colleagues say, but also to what our feelings and our conscience say. This country, given the difficulties it has, given the problems it has faced and the ones that are about to enter, is looking for that kind of conscience and is looking for that kind of decision. I think that we will meet very quickly before the exam and the conscience and the challenge of that kind of decision. I mean, first of all, my colleagues, not my coalition partners, the HDZ partners. Others, with all due respect, I won't mention today. As far as that decision is concerned, it will depend to a good extent on where we will see Dr. Ivo Sanader tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34975	Thank you. We have, since the clubs are all those who applied, who took part in the debate, we have two more deputies. It's the first Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go. ... Sure, 'cause it hasn't been an hour. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Shemso Tankovic on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34976	Your Honor, thank you for letting me speak on behalf of the club. I'm sorry I didn't make the application in time, but that's the deal that today was about Dr. Eve Sanader leaving all the clubs out there. Well, first of all, I would say that all of us from the National Minorities Club had a chance to talk to the current prime minister or prime minister in resignation and we were not surprised when we heard the decision and in some ways and the reasons that led to this resignation. Listening to club presidents, I'm a little surprised that no one, really no one, has found in some way to say one key word for this act, which is responsibility. Dr. Ivo Sanader's responsibility to make it clear and loud that he is interested in what will happen tomorrow within the Croatian political scene. He also made clear in his conversation with us what drove him to leave politics for at least a moment, but taking care of the future also said who would replace him at the prime minister's post and who would sort of lead him, run a party whose until yesterday was president. And only from this sentence can one great amount of responsibility be understood as follows in Croatia. On the other hand, when I say "response," then I could also list certain cases in this six-year co-operation where there were some misunderstandings in the relationship between us as partners. But I stress my six-year experience as the experience of most of my colleagues is extremely positive. And that's why I want to make it public here. Furthermore, as a man born in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as a member of the Bosniak people, I remember well that in these six years, the prime minister and I have discussed that relations between the two countries are developing in the best positive direction. And not only that, look at Croatia's relations with Serbia, Montenegro, Kosovo, Macedonia and Slovenia. These relationships were developing with the neighbors extremely well. The prime minister also said certain priorities and most of these priorities have certainly managed to realise. He was hardly affected by the most likely behaviours of the responsible from the European Union that allowed a neighbouring country to play with Croatia's determination to join the European Union. And it certainly wasn't easy to accept, because it was simply an act that brought him into the position he was now in. And for me, it's my duty to say, Dr. Evey Sanader, thank you very much. And thank him because when we had a meeting yesterday, the day before yesterday, he clearly told me those things that we agreed on when signing the agreement, know that the requirement for the Bosniaks to enter the Constitution would certainly pass, and I believe him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34977	Thank you. Mr. Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34978	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to start my debate on what was present this morning probably at every job, in every office, in the markets, in the cafes, in the trams. Most of the citizens of this country debated the resignation of the Prime Minister. Everywhere but us in the Croatian Parliament who started the debate on flour, civil protection and the development of the island. I want to believe that you will agree with me that indeed most citizens expected today the Croatian Parliament working day to begin with that resignation. Why couldn't we do that? Because Mr Ivo Sanader resigned yesterday as Prime Minister to the press, not the Croatian Parliament. Yesterday, the press. She only came to the Parliament this afternoon. Mr. Ivo Sanader came out to the press yesterday, not today before the Parliament. And indeed nowhere in the law and the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament does it say that the prime minister in resignation must be present when the Parliament discusses it. But I am concerned about the fact that from none of the ruling ranks, nor from you Mr. President of the Parliament, I have not heard the expressions of discontent, because this is how the dignity and reputation of the Croatian Parliament collapses as opposed to some other examples. If the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament is not the place of the first such debate, but are journalists at the press conference, then it may also be an answer to the question of what Mr Sanader's relationship was to Parliament. Everyone's guessing or trying to guess the real reasons for the resignation. Mr. Hebrang mentioned today he got tired, he spent, he didn't wear out his colleague Cain, he said he spent it. But which one of you heard those words from Mr. Sanader yesterday? Mr Hebrang later said that this was a kind of protest at the ramp he encountered, which was brought down by someone from Europe to Croatia, and one response to a journalist's question made it clear that Mr Sanader was indeed dissatisfied that the European Union had allowed Slovenia to block European integration. If Mr Sanader had said so yesterday, and in his resignation, I would have publicly congratulated him on his honesty, indeed on honesty and courage, recognition that he cannot deal with this problem, and that he is dangerous for Croatia's further journey to the European Union. But neither did he say it yesterday, nor did he write it to us today. And one more thing. On his departure, Mr Sanader gave no word to the journalists, not to the Croatian Parliament, not to the possibility, he did not allow himself to be wrong, that he may have had the wrong judgment at times, that he may have made some wrong decision, move, failure or that something he should have done had not done. So even at departure, he denies the possibility and thinks something might have happened that was wrong. On his departure, he declared himself sinless, and his speech today was about as if he were speaking to him over an open grave. The man is... which gave him his resignation and nothing more. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know why these approaches. I personally don't care why Mr. Sanader resigned because he doesn't want to say it, nor did he want to write it. And I don't want to speculate on the right reasons. And I don't really care about that anymore, but I'm worried, and I wouldn't talk about it if my colleague Hebrang hadn't mentioned the ramp and Mr Sanader's protest and there was no one sentence yesterday with a press conference, the European Union allowed Slovenia to blackmail the Republic of Croatia. Is that a message about Croatia's future? Is that an announcement of indulgence before that blackmail? Is that an announcement of a break in the border dispute? Is this an announcement to withdraw certain documents from Brussels? It's sentences that don't talk about the time past, but about the time that's just coming. And now normally I wonder if that ramp that was set down in front of Mr. Sanader he couldn't lift, then who's going to do it? Exactly, colleague, I certainly won't, and neither will you, I'm sure of it. He stopped the train on an open track, shut down the locomotive, and told the passengers what? The ramp's closed. And by doing so, this part of the term of office is over. In the inventory that he left behind, and what the new government is going to take over, we're going to discuss tomorrow, it's not today's topic. And I want to believe that you will agree with me that he is here today and that these reasons that were indirectly mentioned and spoken to us here today, said before us and the Croatian public that a completely different assessment of his behaviour in those moments would be, but that even in the history of the first prime minister's resignation, he would enter on completely different connotations than he would be here. Unlike those who said they would vote for resignation, I will not vote for resignation. Not for undiscovered reasons, but for being here in this hall when he asked for the Parliament's trust, and now that that trust is denied, he wasn't even strong enough to come, to thank us and say I can't anymore. I don't have the strength anymore, I have no idea anymore, you're looking for a different solution. That is a very large feature then, a politician who is able to say it in Parliament. Without those words or resignations or voting for her, it really doesn't make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34979	Mr. Lesar, you keep saying that President Sanader went to the press yesterday. President Sanader is in front of journalists, but not only in front of journalists, but in front of the Croatian public, as journalists inform the Croatian public and that TV transmission was direct and that the Croatian public was familiar. So he later signed his resignation and sent it to the Croatian Parliament. I don't see any drama or unusuality. So much for an explanation. You're being dramatic on the wrong side of things. Thank you very much. That's my opinion. Here, I'm sorry, there's another representative, Mr. Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34980	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We found ourselves at this point to discuss the resignation of the Croatian prime minister, surprised yesterday by the fact that it was so announced because there was no indication that this will happen and this last 2 days everyone is certainly guessing, talking throughout Croatia, which are the real reasons why the prime minister has cited such a decision. And while on the one hand it is cited as the reasons for the difficult economic situation in the country, on the other hand possible personal reasons, on the other hand, there is a possibility that more and more is gained somehow on the ground that the reasons in a particular disappointment discussed by the president of the HDZ Club, Mr Hebrang. However, if that is the case, if the fact that Croatia is stopping in the process of joining the European Union is true, then we must all wake up together from an illusion that we have been living in for ten years, and that is the illusion that we can only by our actions ensure Croatia's entry into the European Union. We really need to do everything we can to make this country as well as possible. We are far, far from perfection and need to change a lot. And we need to accept all European standards, behaviours, normatives. Not because anyone in the European Union is looking for it, but because this country would be better, so that people in it could live better. But we must be aware that there are obviously some who do not care about Croatia entering the European Union. It may not be a question at this time, not only of Slovenia and the border dispute with Slovenia. Maybe there's more to it than that, and that's things we can't influence. And time, just this moment for Croatia to wake up and evaluate how to move on. Approaching, yes. Harmonization, yes. Acceptance of norms, yes. But too many expectations, no. We must face both the difficult economic situation and the fact that we have lived on another's accumulation for years, that we didn't all have the courage to say together and talk about how difficult our economic situation really is, that we didn't have the courage to tell about all the obstacles that could stand in the way to the European Union, but this is a time for us all to sober up together and for Croatia to define a new strategy, a new path and a new plan for the next few years. How and in what way do you live in such conditions? How to develop Croatia? What in Croatia to change to make us better? I have to say that I will support the resignation myself, support it. It is up to the rulers to try to make a proposal for a new government. I see in that sense there are no obstacles, that arrangements exist in the ruling coalition. The government will probably be voted tomorrow. We'll have a chance to see about that tomorrow. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34981	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate on Mr. Ivo Sanader's resignation. We'll decide when the conditions are met. I shall give the decision to vote on the basis of Article 115(9) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 8. The Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia at its 11th session on 2 July 2009 adopted the next decision. First. The President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Dr. Ivo Sanader resigned as Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Second. The resignation of Dr. Ivo Sanader, acting Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Third. This decision takes effect at the moment of showing the Croatian Parliament's confidence to the new President and Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The decision was made by a majority of votes, 118 votes to, 2 abstentions and 1 vote against. Thank you very much. I think we'll all agree that today was pretty rough and we'll continue the session tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. on the agenda Annual financial reports of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 2008 and we'll see more. So, with that agenda point, we start tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34984	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The Government of the Republic of Croatia under the chairmanship of Dr. Since the beginning, Ivo Sanader has decided to establish a special body that will deal with the development of state administration, the development of local self-government and the political electoral system. As a body to deal with this problem, the Central State Administration Office was established, however, during the course of the implementation of reforms, in particular reforms concerning the adaptation of the Croatian state administration to European standards and preparations for membership in the European Union, the Central State Administration Office took on daily new and new jobs in terms of official legislation, as regards ethics, human rights, the rights of national minorities, labour transparency and the education of state and local officials. The business taken over by the central state office also required the employment of relevant professional staff, so it became an over-organisational body that could be managed by one State Secretary and one Deputy. And in order to carry out horizontal surveillance measures on other state administration bodies in the future, so that it can cooperate more equally with the relevant ministries of the Member States of the European Union and participate more actively in the management of European Union funds intended for the development of state administration, and also as a result of a functional audit message which objectively looked at the needs of the development of the state administration and which proposed the establishment of the Ministry of Administration, this law proposes that the Central State Administration ceases to exist and that the Ministry of Administration be established with an equal circle along with the present part-round with the extended part-round with regard to stronger supervision of other state administration bodies and the management of funds provided for the development of the state service. All officials and deputies of the Central State Administration Office will be taken over into the new ministry, and the funds in the state budget provided for the work of the Central State Administration Office will be sufficient for the work of the new ministry. Please pass this law by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34985	Thank you very much. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. No one checked in. ... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There's not a single application here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34986	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Despite Croatia's practice that each government changes the organisation of state administration according to its needs, it should be said that this is basically a very wrong approach. One of the most important elements for citizens is the stability of the organisation of the state administration, and the state administration is established so that citizens of the Republic of Croatia can easily achieve their interests in front of the state and with the state. So, in principle, it is represented here that the same term is for the citizens of both this and the future, and the organisation of the state administration is changing. So whoever comes here whether he's given a mandate or not adapts state administration to himself, not to the citizens. That's the way it is with this bill of law. For this reason, to be honest, it is unacceptable to vote from case to case for the state administration to adapt to the new prime minister and the new government, not to the citizens, without a good analysis and a national consensus that would apply to most of the future governments. The interests of citizens should be respected, not to change the structure and the detour of the state administration's body, but to build stability. That is why it is very important for these laws to reach a consensus so that we do not change government in every change. So much to say, the SDP doesn't accept such an ad hoc state administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34987	Thank you. Mr. Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34988	Your Honor, it's very short. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Circumstance of the Central Authorities of the State Administration, this law and what is before us today in the Assembly is only one political staffing. Because of the public, the truth is next. The current secretary of state has run for Constitutional Court, likely to be elected there. It will be a reward for all that he has done in known cases of political trade in representative bodies of units of local self-government, and the next man who is proposed in this place simply wants to be a minister, and then the Central Office for the State Administration must become the Ministry of Administration. So that's the real truth of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34989	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We therefore vote on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Construction and the Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 398. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The adoption of this law requires a majority of the votes of all MPs, i.e. 77. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The law was passed by most votes, 81 votes for and 37 votes against, nothing abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34992	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. This is a very short law that has been proposed to resolve doubts about the new political fact, as regards the functioning of the executive government at the time when the Prime Minister resigns. In fact, there is a certain legal gap in the law that could be interpreted by grammatical interpretation of the law that the Croatian state does not have a government. Which is unacceptable and unacceptable. So we have only two norms with this law. One is definitely the abolition of the Central State Office and its removal from this law, as well as the amendment of Article 9(1) so that it would read "If the Croatian Parliament accepts the resignation of the Prime Minister, the Government will carry out technical tasks until the appointment of the new Government". We ensure the continuity of the executive government but only at the technical level in doing those tasks that are necessary for the functioning of the state very quickly, I hope the appointment of the new government and the vote of confidence in this esteemed House. We suggest that this law be passed by emergency procedure as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34993	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club. Here's to the club, although there's a rule for you to sign up here with your application card. ... Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34994	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament I respect your remarks just give me at least one hour before the application. Therefore, the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I can still understand the practice of changing the organisation of state bodies, the authorities of the administration, but here we have something that is so raving, unacceptable from the point of view of the government's seriousness and responsibility in the Croatian democratic structure. Namely, the government's proposal suggests if the Croatian Parliament accepts the resignation. In other words, the government suggests a contract, if you accept your resignation, the resignation will be valid. If you don't accept my resignation, I will remain prime minister. In serious functions and serious systems, such a contract cannot be. It is not acceptable in Croatia either. The resignation is a personal act, a personal attitude, a personal choice, and everything else would be manipulation. If this is how we accept corruption, the Prime Minister's resolution, the prime minister could only be based on a vote of no confidence. Because he resigned, and you don't accept his resignation, and he won't work, then you have to make some other decision on how to resolve it. And according to the Constitution and the law, it is intended only to be resolved on the basis of resignation, death, etc. and on the basis of a vote of no confidence to the Prime Minister. Secondly, something also changes here that I do not see the reasons for the change, Article 9(1). "If the Croatian Parliament accepts the resignation of the Prime Minister, the government will disband." There is no such thing as a new corruption, the government will disband, but the government will continue to work on technical affairs. It must receive an echo if the prime minister is to resign, must be an echo in parliament, the government has fallen, is acting under the Constitution, a new prime minister is sought, and the current government continues not as a technical government, but rather as the necessary tasks of the state. The Technical Government has another qualification and other reasons. For this reason, I propose that the proposer omitted this "if the Croatian Parliament accepts", rather than "when the Prime Minister resigns as Prime Minister, the government continues to work on a minimum or technical or some programme until the appointment of the new government." It's a clean situation, then. But she's clean and without this, because the Law on the transfer of power after the election and the end of the mandate, the government continues to work. The elections continue to work, and we call it that all the time until a new majority, or new prime minister, is obtained and a new government is established. I don't see any reason why we should push a formula like this that creates more uncertainty than it clears up a situation that isn't exactly regulated to the soul in the Constitution itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34995	If I understand correctly, it is that, in Mr. Lek's opinion, when the government resigns, it is still a matter until a new government is formed. That's okay in my opinion, but the question arises if the parliament has voted in favour of the government as well as the government's resolution should be accepted. And if he won't accept parliament, the Parliament has given confidence to the government. Please, we want to overcome here a possible vacuum that can be created because the government has resigned, or the Prime Minister, and automatically then the entire government, so that it doesn't happen in a little short time that there's no vacuum in the government. I therefore believe that it should still vote for the parliament to resign, there is no parliament that has the possibility of him refusing to resign now. If we're gonna speculate like that. ... No, because she's resigned and she's accepted. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We must, all the time here, have been giving a speech that it didn't come before the Parliament, that it didn't resign, and now all of a sudden, the Parliament doesn't have to accept it. So what are we talking about? We're getting into contradictions. I believe that we should accept that there is no vacuum in the functioning of the government, and anyway, when the mandate is given and the new government is in front of the Parliament, then the function of that government that has been technically doing the job so far ends. I think that makes sense. Mr. Palaric, I'm asking you to get involved in this which makes sense to me that what Mr. Leko is telling me is that there is a possibility that the government will continue to work until the election of the new government. But what's the point of this thing, and what's the point of changing the law if that's the case?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34996	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The law states, Article 9(1): "If the Croatian Parliament accepts the resignation of the Prime Minister, it will disband the government.". That means the government doesn't. ... I don't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] According to our proposal, the government becomes a technical government and performs the necessary tasks until the appointment of the new government. The provisions of the process of handing over authorities cannot be applied because it is designed for the elections, it regulates what happens from the vote to the holding of elections, after holding elections until the formation of a new government. So, if the law hadn't changed tomorrow, no one could make a decision of any nature because a government that's disbanded can't even make a minimum necessary technical decision and that could pose a huge risk to the constitutional order. And we think that this solution that has been proposed meets the fulfillment of the legal void or the indeterminateness of the existing norms of the Government Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34997	Mr. Palaric, did you define your position?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34998	I did. We remain with the proposal proposed by the Government because we believe that the legal article must change because if the law had not changed then the Government would be disbanded and unable to sit, it could not make any technical decision either.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u34999	We have three corrections. First Mrs. Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u35000	It is incorrect that the Parliament must decide to resign. The resignation is simply received into the knowledge and it is not accepted or not accepted. The resignation is a constitutional act that does not depend here on whether someone accepts it or not. Imagine the situation, we speak beyond space and time in general, that the Parliament does not accept the government's resignation. What are we going to make the government stay? This situation that's thought to be dubious if it weren't so wrong to have a vacuum. We don't have a vacuum, but at the end of the day it's also a practice, and there's not only a proper interpretation of the Constitution, but the current Government Act is clear there. The government is doing technical work until the appointment of a new government within 30 days. If he doesn't have a government like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u35001	Is he following this law or not, the secretary of state claims that it says that the government is disbanding. So, then she's gone. ... It's not like there's any controversy at all here. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here's the question of how to get out of this situation. Mr. Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u35002	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I'd like to warn you that the secretary of state is avoiding that measure that spoke to my colleague Leko about exactly what resignation means. It is important to distinguish between the situation in which we vote in confidence and mistrust with the government. That's one case. And another case is when the government resigns. By amending the law, we come to a situation where there is a possibility that this resignation is not accepted and that is why it should be changed. The issue of technical performance of this House can also be resolved by adding this sentence and I think it is a solution to the complete problem. The government must make a decision on its termination and what jobs it does until the election of the new government but the most important thing is that this situation with the resignation and the possibility of it not being accepted is regulated in the Constitution as well. He says there's a difference between resigning and the situation next. And I must point out most importantly, this is a variant in which it can happen and it is important to point out that the Prime Minister is if the entire government resigns. That's what needs to be specified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u35003	Mr. Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u35004	Mr. President. I claim that the government continues to work and that is not the issue. And if you were in this dispute, we can't solve it with this law because he would. The government resigned. Did she resign? It is. Then this law would act retroactively. So it's logical for the government to continue working on their jobs to say necessary, but that's not the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u35005	What's it come from?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u35006	From the Constitution and the Law on the transfer of power no matter when the transfer takes place and when the transfer takes place. There's always a transmission.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u35007	It makes perfect sense to me what Mr. Leco says, but... If this is a valid law, please. If, now, this is true, this is now an unchanged law, so which one is current. If the Croatian Parliament accepts the resignation of the Prime Minister, it will disband the government. ... This is what it says now. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] I'm reading to you what is now in force. ... [[Aggression: When the government disbands, there is no government.]] So let's just take this and get over this because the goal is to solve this, not that we're... [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] Mr. Dragutin Lesar. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u35008	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, I believe that this provision of the law should be changed because of that part of the sentence it says is disbanded by the government, but. Mr. President, the problem with such a provision of this article has its own history before 2001. In fact, until then... the Prime Minister had resigned to the President of the Republic. And it was a provision, if the President of the Republic accepts the resignation of the Prime Minister, the government will disband. In 2001 it was intervened in this provision, and instead of the President of the Republic it was entered if the Croatian Parliament accepted the resignation of the Prime Minister, it would disband the government. These were two different concepts that have been corrected by me since 2001 in an uncomplicated way. It is one thing when the president of the state appoints a government or prime minister and resigns to him, and another concept is when the Prime Minister resigns to Parliament. However, the proposed amendment, we do not have to make Mr. Palaric the same mistake as in 2001 and the sentence in the law cannot begin "If the Croatian Parliament accepts the resignation of the Prime Minister", but "The president's resignation takes note, and the government will carry out technical tasks until the day of the appointment of the new government". The resignation of the Prime Minister is a personal act. Under the second provision, the Prime Minister's resignation and all members of the government are in resignation. And the Prime Minister's resignation parliament takes note. Not if, because such a provision implies the possibility that the Parliament would not accept the resignation. Then what are you going to force Sanader to remain prime minister? This experience that we have now and the situation that we have now, if it isn't enough for us to end up fixing that provision that we needed to make in 2001, I don't know what else we need right now. The Prime Minister's resignation parliament takes note, and the government continues technical affairs until the day of the appointment of the new government. And it's over.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u35009	I think this is a very rational solution. Here you go, Vice President Shakespeare. ... [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u35010	On 10 July 2002, Prime Minister Ivica Racan resigned. The President of the Republic shall make a decision on the granting of the mandate for the composition of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Prime Minister Ivica Racan resigned after his former deputy, Drazen Budisa, stepped down from the government. It then takes place at the same legal premises of the Law on Government and Constitution, under the first decision and the Croatian Parliament: "I found that Ivica Racan, President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, resigned from office of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. 2., Until the entry into office of the new Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Prime Minister shall, in cooperation with the members of the Government, carry out the tasks established by the Constitution and by law. Now in the current legal text, Article 8 stands when the Prime Minister resigns, all members of the government are believed to have resigned. The Prime Minister resigns to the Croatian Parliament. And it stands if the Croatian Parliament accepts the resignation of the Prime Minister, it will disband the government. The government proposes a novel in Article 9 that if the Croatian Parliament accepts the resignation of the Prime Minister, the government should carry out technical tasks until the appointment of the new government. That is exactly what the amendment is all about. Right in line with that decision that was made in 2002. And that is why I propose that following this debate on the resignation of the Prime Minister, the decision of the Croatian Parliament reads: "On the basis of Article 115(9) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 8 The Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, at its meeting held on 2 July 2009, adopted the following decision: 1. It is determined that the Prime Minister, Dr Ivo Sanader, has resigned from his post as Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. 2. Dr. Ivo Sanader's resignation at the office of Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia is hereby accepted. 3. This decision takes effect at the moment of showing the trust of the Croatian Parliament to the new president or president of the Government of the Republic of Croatia." This excludes that void and technically can be operated. Thank you. ... [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u35011	Please! What about if and when? Is that what's left if? ... Do you... [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] Please! It's our goal, not to sit here forever, but to solve this problem. Is there an amendment in line with what Mr. Lesar said, so somewhat Mr. Leco did? Well, it says here if.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u35012	If you give me enough time to write it, I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-02-0.u35013	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Please, let's get on with it. We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 397. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The adoption of this law requires a majority of the votes of all MPs, i.e. at least 77. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Act on the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was adopted by most votes, 84 votes in favour, nothing abstentions and 37 against.
