ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39616	I'm opening a session, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. On the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 430 The Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, European integration, education, science and culture. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Proposer representative, State Secretary Željir Janjic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39617	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. Let me tell you a little bit about this law that has a classification code P.Z.E. Although we are trying to send all the laws from the ministry to a regular procedure, so in two readings, this time formally this law goes according to an emergency procedure. But practically, this law is in second reading. I will remind you that you discussed this law in December 2008 and that after that debate we not only accepted what was said in the debates, but we had a few consultations with Brussels to finally have this text as we have and let me tell you a few words about it. So today, in the Republic of Croatia, the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Qualifications applies to the purpose of employment in the Republic of Croatia. However, that law formally confirms the value of foreign educational qualifications or diplomas or certificates issued by the competent authority for the purpose of accessing employment. A foreign educational qualification itself means a formal term for a certain level of knowledge acquired, skills and competence that is proven by an international school certificate, diploma or other public law issued by a competent institution. Therefore, recognition under that law is exclusively the recognition of evidence of the completion of formal education, while professional training under this procedure is not considered. In this respect, the proposal for this law is a newspaper in the Republic of Croatia, as a process of recognition will be considered in a united process and evidence of the completion of formal education and professional training of candidates, professional training and training after formal completion of education, as well as possible professional experience. And if it is estimated that the candidate meets the prescribed conditions, the same professional qualification will be recognised in order to carry out a particular profession in the Republic of Croatia. This draft law transposes the provisions of Directive 2005/36 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the recognition of professional qualifications from 7 September 2005. This Directive guarantees persons who have acquired professional qualifications in one of the Member States access to the same profession and the same rights when performing that profession in another Member State, as well as to nationals of that Member State. The aim of the Directive is to enable the recognition of professional qualifications by the host Member States to access the regulated profession for which it is trained in the home Member State, as well as to carry out that profession under conditions which apply to its citizens. In doing so, a regulated profession involves a professional activity or a group of professional activities where access and exercise, i.e. a way of carrying out activities on the basis of legal acts, i.e. sublegal and other acts adopted on the basis of legal authorisations are directly or indirectly subject to the possession of certain professional qualifications, as well as a professional activity or group of professional activities engaged in members of professional organisations with a professional name. The adoption of this law is foreseen as the first criterion for closing Chapter 3. – Right of business creation and freedom to provide services. For the purpose of assessing the compliance of the draft law with the legal acquis of the European Union in November 2008, technical consultations were held in Brussels with the representatives of the European Commission, and it was pointed out that the draft law should cover all three systems of recognition of foreign professional qualifications, namely: 1. general system of recognition of professional qualifications, 2. recognition of professional qualifications based on acquired experience and 3. recognition of professional qualifications based on the coordination of minimum training conditions for doctors of medicine, doctors of dental medicine, nurses, for the activities of general health care, recipients, veterinarians, masters of pharmacies and architects, together with the provision of all minimum training conditions for those professions. Therefore, the proposal for a law is complemented by the regulation of the recognition of professional qualifications on the basis of acquired professional experience and the recognition of professional qualifications on the basis of the coordination of minimum training conditions and on 20 April 2009 an informal opinion was delivered to the European Commission, together with a table of compliance of the Directive with the draft law. In this proposal, you have received these tables of consistency, so you have on the side of the mark which is all in line after these consultations. Following the receipt of an informal opinion, the European Commission’s observations and recommendations were held again in July 2009 by a technical meeting in Brussels after which the draft law was reached as set out in further instructions from the European Commission. The European Commission's latest opinion was adopted on 23 July 2009 in line with further technical improvements in the text of this final draft law. Dear Vice President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39618	Thank you. Legislative? European integration? Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Representative Petar Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39619	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues. At its 21st session, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture discussed the proposal for a law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications, with the final proposal for a law. He was arguing as a parent working body. The adoption of a new law for the first time in the Republic of Croatia will regulate the minimum conditions of training for access and professionalisation of doctors of medicine, doctor of medical specialists, dental medicine doctor, doctor of dental medicine specialist, nurses for the activities of general health care, midwives, masters of pharmacies, veterinarians and architects, in accordance with Directive 2005/36 EZ as so-called. regulated professions and a system of recognition of foreign professional qualifications for performing regulated professions in the Republic of Croatia. In two ways, the right to a business establishment will be exercised, i.e. the provision of services on a temporary and occasional basis in the Republic of Croatia on the basis of foreign professional qualifications. The procedure for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications in these cases shall also be established. This bill applies only to persons who wish to carry out those regulated professions in the Republic of Croatia, while to persons who wish to perform another unregulated profession they will continue to apply the existing Law on the Recognition of Foreign Professional Qualifications of 2003 with amendments and additions from 2006 under which we are subject to the procedure of recognising professional training for the purpose of employment. The difference in the regulation is that under that law only evidence of the degree of formal education achieved is recognised and solved. So, practically graduates while the proposal in question, which we are now discussing for the recognition of regulated professions in the case of those professions, will determine overall professional training. So specialization and similar assumed professional training and training after obtaining formal education means diplomas as well as possible professional experience. The following conclusion was reached unanimously by the Committee considering the proposal in question. The Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39620	I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, Mr Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39621	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Representatives. Here is the proposal for a law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications with the Final Proposal for the Law before us which will be immediately told at the beginning by the Croatian Democratic Community club to vote in favour, because this legislative proposal harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union. And more importantly, by adopting this law for the first time in the Republic of Croatia, Croatia will regulate the minimum conditions of training in the Republic of Croatia for the access and pursuit of the professions of doctors of medicine, medical specialists, dental medicine doctors, dental medical specialists, nurses for the activities of general health care, midwives, masters of pharmacies, veterinarians and architects in accordance with Directive 2005/36 as well as the system of recognition of foreign professional qualifications for the exercise of regulated professions in the Republic of Croatia in order to exercise the right of establishment, freedom to provide services on a temporary and occasional basis in the Republic of Croatia on the basis of foreign professional qualifications, and the process of recognising foreign professional qualifications. Obviously, it is about the flow of people and professionals who will be able to work, so on the principle that it is in the European Community, the Union. What I particularly want to look at is the content itself, because we heard from the Secretary of State of General Principle and this is an emergency procedure because the discussions have already been conducted and in some way discussed and analysed in Brussels. But what's important is to hear and know that the basics are, say, within these contents of the law. This bill regulates the recognition of foreign professional qualifications with the aim of access to a particular profession, i.e. to carry out certain activities in the receiving country for the purpose of providing services on a temporary and occasional basis. Therefore, when it is not about carrying out a lasting economic activity. The person does not establish a business establishment in the Republic of Croatia but has the same establishment in the Member State of the European Economic Area, and in the Republic of Croatia he comes to provide temporary and occasional services regulated by the Head of Law 2 of the Law, the applicant delivers a statement in writing and documents to the competent authority. So the law very precisely regulates all that. The recognition of foreign professional qualifications with the aim of access to a particular profession is arranged, i.e. the exercise of certain activities in the receiving country for the purpose of exercising the right of establishment. It applies to persons wishing to establish a business establishment in the Republic of Croatia and to carry out a particular regulated profession, regulated by the Chapter of the 3rd Bill, establishing the general principles and procedures for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications for a given person, the general system of recognition of qualifications. This law regulates the recognition of professional qualifications on the basis of acquired professional experience which shows general business or expertise and competences as prescribed under Chapter 3 of the Law. This law regulates minimum training conditions, the required level of education and professional training and the recognition of professional qualifications based on the coordination of minimum training conditions for the 7 professions of the Directive that I have already mentioned. So, doctor of medicine, doctor of dental medicine. For now, it should be said that in the Republic of Croatia the doctors of dental medicine still bear the title of dentists under the obligation to change the academic name that is under way. I believe it will be. Medical nurse for general health care, midwives, veterinarians, masters of pharmacies, and architects. The system of authoritative recognition of qualifications regulated by Chapter 4 of the draft laws which have been acquired in the Member States of the European Union. If a person wishing to carry out one of those professions does not meet the requirements for the automatic recognition of qualifications, the general qualification recognition system shall apply. It shall be subject to recognition under the prescribed procedure. It's very important to point out. Furthermore, the provisions of the law will not apply to seamen whose process of recognition of professional qualifications is regulated by specific regulations. The recognition of professional qualifications for seamen is regulated by Directive 2001/25 on the minimum level of training of seamen and Directive 2005/45 on mutual recognition of mariners issued by Member States which are being amended and supplemented by Directive 2001 and are therefore exempt from the application of Directive 2005/36. Furthermore, the provisions of this law do not apply to qualifications of persons performing service or brokerage tasks where they do not come into direct contact with dangerous chemicals whose process of recognising professional qualifications has been regulated by specific regulations. The rights acquired for those 7 professions are also governed in accordance with the Directive, the rights which the European Union has decided to recognise in the field of its Member States. The office which is obliged to provide citizens with the necessary information on the recognition of professional qualifications under this law is National... an office that manages the database in regulated professions in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, as part of the Science Agency. The national coordinator who submits the report to the European Commission on the implementation of this law shall also appoint the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. For the purpose of implementing this law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will bring a list of regulated professions in the Republic of Croatia, which is necessary, as this is the first time in this way. For the purpose of the implementation of this law and of the annex to the Directives, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will also provide lists containing the relevant annexes to the Directive. So there's still a lot of work to be done, definitely without this law that wouldn't be possible. And finally, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club for all these reasons, I want to say that we support and that we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39622	Thank you. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39623	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I don't see a secretary of state. Excuse me. We have a law that looks very complicated at first sight, not only in scope, but also in the way this matter is regulated. However, it is indeed a matter of harmonising our legal practice in one power that we can call regulation of the premises of professional professions, especially when it comes to the obligations of the Republic of Croatia to be as arranged as other members of the European Economic Area. It is good that in the creation of this law, therefore, very intense consultations have been conducted, and what the secretary of state said should be a consistent guarantee that this law will not return to do so as some others who have also had a certificate of compliance with the European acquis, so they have returned to us three or four times. I hope that these three rounds of consultation with people from the European Commission have produced fruit in such a way that there are no more doubtful solutions and that we will not have to be ashamed in this regard. The key thing is that so far we have had a procedure that was only half-way, when it comes to the recognition of foreign qualifications, mainly or exclusively in that formal part, i.e. in the part of the recognition of formal, acquired levels of formal education. In fact, so far we have applied the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Education Qualifications, so that after formal recognition, the formal education acquired in other countries had a certain legal vacuum. It's, of course, a space where a series of abuses can happen. It is a space where, without additional expertise, you can practically take up a certain professional space with certain possible consequences. First of all, it's because it's about occupations that we can freely say are of special importance. And all these medical, dental, pharmaceutical professions, but also the professions of architects, I would say directly affect not only the quality of life of people who are provided services in these professions, but if you want to live alone... It is therefore extremely important to establish a system that will be consistent with the entire European economic space, because I believe that the countries of the European Union have gone further in practice and in experience than was the case with countries, conditionally said in transition, which includes Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We should now get a complete procedure in which the situation of recognition of evidence is uniquely determined, not only in the formal degree of education, but also in professional perfection, in order to enable foreign citizens to temporarily and occasionally practice their professions in the Republic of Croatia and in terms of business creation. The fact is that the implementation of this law will also require certain additional costs, although what we see is minimal, because it is only a preparation... The catalogue, however, is much more important than that for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt in time the rules implementing the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First of all, it is a list of regulated professions, lists which correspond to the Annexes to Directive 2005/36, and we should also be qualified to prepare the whole process, until the official accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. In this context, it is certainly important that a project co-financed by the Dutch Government as a pre-accession project of the Matra MPAP, called strengthening the role of the national office established under the Science and Higher Education Agency, is implemented. I hope that the project will also provide additional training for officials, because this process is very demanding, this process is now united, it has several elements of very important and it is very important that the agency does its job in a very professional way so that it does not happen that the first cases may already be sneezing. It is very important, therefore, that the Republic of Croatia takes this as a serious commitment, because we need to know that by entering the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, the issue of labour market freedom will be brought first and in a way that will affect certain professions in the Republic of Croatia through the outflow of personnel. We saw what was happening in Poland, we saw what was happening in the Baltic countries, we saw what happened in the Czech Republic and Slovakia, now it's happening in Romania and Bulgaria. The recession has eased, slowed down or started to reduce the number of highly skilled personnel going to Western Europe and increasing the number of returnees, but the fact that the Republic of Croatia is only going to enter this process and that it is expected that many of our professions, if you want this one that is quite threatened by the staff deficit, are medical professions, will suffer a certain blow from the drain of experts, and then medical institutions, but also the market for services as such, will be tempting for such staff who are educated and trained in other European Union countries. That is, for those who can temporarily and occasionally carry out this activity in the Republic of Croatia. This is one process for which the state should be prepared and simultaneously implemented by those who care about the labour market, from those who are already facing a deficit of certain professional staff to those who allow a procedure such as this which is the recognition of formal education and professional training. In this respect, the HNS will support this Act and the Government's request to take this into account as one of the very important tasks in the European Union's association process in order to mitigate, above all, the negative effects on the labour market as much as possible and especially in these activities and in these professions that are already deficited in the Republic of Croatia or which we can consider professions of particular interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39624	Thank you. Individual debate Mr. MP Vedran Rosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39625	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. We have before us a proposal for a law on regulated professions and recognitions of foreign professional qualifications. Namely, Directive 2005/36. The European Communities shall be guaranteed to persons who have acquired professional qualifications in one of the Member States access to the same profession, the same rights in the exercise of that profession in another Member State, as well as Member States and the aim of improving the rules of the applicable qualification recognition system. By recognising the professional qualifications of the host Member States, the host Member State shall allow the holder of qualifications to access the regulated profession for which he has been trained in the home Member State and to carry out that profession under conditions which apply to its citizens. Under the regulated profession, professional activity or a group of professional activities in which access and exercise, i.e. the way in which the activities are carried out are based on legal, sublegal and other acts directly or indirectly conditional on the possession of certain professional qualifications, as well as professional activities or a group of professional activities dealing with members of professional organisations with a professional name. The entry into force of the aforementioned Directive has established that the Republic of Croatia does not have a tailored legal framework or administrative structure for the recognition of professional qualifications. Today, in the Republic of Croatia, the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications is applicable for the purpose of employment. Subject law is insufficient because it only formally confirms the value of an foreign educational qualification issued by the competent authority for the purpose of accessing employment, to the extent that the foreign educational qualification itself implies a formal term for a certain level, i.e. the degree of knowledge acquired, skills and competence that is proven by the foreign school testimony, diploma, and other public correction issued by the competent institution. Therefore, recognition under that law is exclusively the recognition of evidence of the completion of formal education while professional training is considered professional training and training after the completion of formal education which is possible professional experience under the procedure of that law. Once a candidate has been granted a certain educational qualification under that law, the same must be additionally recognised if it is a regulated profession from a competent professional organisation or from a competent authority or organisation to obtain the authorisation to carry out a regular profession on its own. In this respect, this Law represents a newspaper in the Republic of Croatia because the same and for the purpose of recognising professional qualifications in order to carry out a particular regulated profession in the Republic of Croatia in the recognition process will be considered in a united procedure and evidence of the completion of formal education and professional training of candidates. If the candidate is assessed to meet the prescribed conditions, the same professional qualification will be recognised in order to carry out a particular profession in the Republic of Croatia and thus allow access and exercise of a specific regulated profession in the Republic of Croatia. This Act also lays down minimum training conditions in the Republic of Croatia for the access and profession of doctors of medicine, doctor of medicine, doctor of dental medicine, doctor of dental medicine specialists, nurses for the activities of general health care, midwives, masters of pharmacies, veterinarians and architects. Recognition of foreign professional qualifications, qualifications in accordance with the European Parliament and Council Directives of 7 September 2005 on the recognition of professional qualifications, the system of recognition of foreign professional qualifications for the exercise of regulated professions in the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of exercising the right to establishment, the freedom to provide services on a temporary, occasional basis in the Republic of Croatia on the basis of foreign professional qualifications and the procedure for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications. To this end, this person who would first wish to provide services in the Republic of Croatia on this basis will be obliged to report to the competent authority, to provide the prescribed documentation. It will be subject to special rules governing professional qualifications in the exercise of regulated professions and provisions applicable to experts engaged in the same profession in the Republic of Croatia. Chapter 3. The proposal for a law is governed by the recognition of foreign professional qualifications for the purpose of exercising the right to a business establishment, and will apply to persons wishing to establish a business establishment in the Republic of Croatia and carry out a regulated profession. Chapter 3 also regulates the recognition of professional qualifications in certain professional activities on the basis of acquired professional experience showing general business or expertise. The law also regulates the professional qualifications of so-called professional qualifications. sectoral professions, i.e. those before the profession for which the said Directive applies, shall be subject to the principle of automatic recognition of qualifications. The provisions of the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications will not apply to seamen as the procedure for the recognition of their professional qualifications is regulated by specific regulations. Qualifications of persons performing service or brokerage tasks where they do not come into contact with dangerous chemicals as the process of recognising their professional qualifications has been regulated by specific regulations. And to persons who wish to carry out a certain unregulated profession because they will continue to be subject to the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications. For the purpose of implementing this law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will adopt a list of regulated professions in the Republic of Croatia and lists which correspond to the Annexes of Directive 2005/36, and the application of the provisions relating to the procedure for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications, including the application of those provisions, will begin from the moment of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, until the necessary administrative capacity for the implementation of the law is established. It is therefore proposed that this legislative proposal be discussed and adopted by an urgent procedure, given that the adoption of this law is a harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union and that the adoption of this law is a criterion for the closure of Chapter 3, the right of business created and the freedom to provide services.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39626	Thank you. Mr. Representative Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39627	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The adoption of this law for the first time in the Republic of Croatia will regulate the minimum training conditions for the access and exercise of professions by doctors of medicine, doctors of medical specialists, dental medicine doctors, doctors of dental medicine specialists, nurses for the activities of the general health region, primates, masters of pharmacies, veterinarians, architects, and for the purpose of the exercise of the right of establishment, freedom to provide services, on a temporary and occasional basis in the Republic of Croatia on the basis of foreign professional qualifications and the procedure for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications. Today, in the Republic of Croatia, the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications is applied to professional recognition of foreign educational qualifications, but for the purpose of employment. That law only formally confirms the value of an foreign educational qualification directly supervised by the body for the purpose of accessing employment. The importance of the recognition under that law is exclusively the recognition of evidence of the completion of formal education. Once a candidate has been granted a certain educational qualification, the same must be additionally granted by the competent professional organisation to perform the regulated profession independently. This law represents a novelty in the Republic of Croatia since, in accordance with this law, in order to recognise a professional qualification in order to carry out a particular profession, it is considered in a united procedure. When it is estimated that the candidate fulfils the prescribed conditions, the same professional qualification will be recognised in order to carry out a particular profession in the Republic of Croatia, thus allowing access and exercise of a specific regulated profession in the Republic of Croatia. The National Office shall act with the Agency for Science and Higher Education, which shall carry out tasks related to the professional recognition of higher education qualifications. The proposed law has 77 points, and their arguments from pages 50 to 55 show that the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications goes to meet interested parties, reduces administration and applies European practice. For all this, I support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39628	Thank you. Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39629	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Today we are discussing the draft Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications with the final proposal for a law. Another law bearing the label of the proposal of the European Law No. 430, which marks the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union and which is subject to the provisions of the emergency procedure. The adoption of this law by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to this High House measured the closure of Chapter 3. Right of business creation and freedom to provide services. The obligation to adopt the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications is laid down in Directive 36 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 September 2005 on the recognition of professional qualifications, guaranteeing the persons who have acquired professional qualifications in one of the Member States, access to the same profession and the same rights in the exercise of that profession in another Member State as well as the nationals of that Member State. By recognising professional qualifications, the Member State shall allow the holder of the qualification to access a regulated profession trained in the home Member State as well as to carry out such a profession under conditions which apply to its nationals. Under regulated professions, professional activities or a group of professional activities where access and exercise, or the way in which the activities are carried out under the law, directly or indirectly, are subject to the possession of certain professional qualifications as well as professional activities or a group of professional activities dealing with members of professional organisations with a professional name. Following this law, for the first time, the minimum training conditions in the Republic of Croatia for accessing and performing professions are laid down. As we have already heard, Doctor of Medicine, Doctor of Medicine, Doctor of Dental Medicine, Doctor of Dental Medicine, Medical Sisters for the Activity of General Health Care, Primarily, Master of Pharmacy, Veterinary and Architects, as well as the recognition of foreign professional qualifications including the system of recognition of foreign professional qualifications for performing regulated professions in the Republic of Croatia, and for the purpose of exercising the right to business teaching, the freedom to provide services on a temporary and occasional basis in the Republic of Croatia on the basis of foreign professional qualifications, as well as the procedure of recognising foreign professional qualifications. For the so-called numbered so-called The sectoral professions, in accordance with the already mentioned Directive of the European EC, shall be subject to the principle of automatic recognition of qualifications. This law applies to nationals and nationals of the Contracting States in the European Economic Area, which includes all members of the European Union plus Norway, Liechtenstein and Iceland. Therefore, for all citizens who have acquired professional qualifications in the State Contracting Parties to the European Economic Area, who in the Republic of Croatia, as persons employed by a specific employer or persons carrying out their own activity, want to carry out a specific regulated profession. The same law applies to third-country nationals who have acquired professional qualifications in the countries of the Contracting Parties to the European Economic Area. However, the law does not apply to seamen whose process of recognition of professional qualifications is regulated by specific regulations, as well as to the qualifications of persons performing serviced or brokered tasks, where they do not come into direct contact with dangerous chemicals whose professional qualification procedure is regulated by specific regulations. The Republic of Croatia, through the Ministry of Labour, is obliged to appoint, in accordance with the provisions of this law, a person who will perform the tasks of the National Coordinator for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications as well as its obligations, as well as a body that will carry out the tasks of the contact point. The Contact Point is obliged to maintain a database containing, among other things, lists of regulated professions in the Republic of Croatia, with an indication of the level of professional qualification required to carry out a regulated profession and to the competent authority for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications. The Contact Point is obliged to issue a guide on the general system of recognition of professional qualifications in the Republic of Croatia in writing and electronic form in Croatian and English at the latest until the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The transitional and final provisions of this law provide for the harmonisation of the list of academic names and academic degrees and their academias in the section relating to the academic name of dentists, and the higher universities that carry out the study of dentistry, are obliged to coordinate their general acts in the section relating to the academic name of dentists with this law within two months of the entry into force of this law. Likewise, the obligations to amend and delete certain provisions of the Law on Architectural and Engineering Affairs and activities in spatial planning and construction are also prescribed, in order to comply with this law with the provisions of this law. The procedures for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications under this law will be implemented from the moment of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. And as we have already heard of the implementation of this law, there is no need to provide additional resources in the national budget for 2010 and 2011. The increase in monetary obligations applies only to the submission of this list which the contact point must make and the post of regulated professions that the contact point must publish in English and Croatian at the latest until the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. I also fully support the adoption of the proposed law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications with the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39630	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39631	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm just like my colleagues and colleagues, joining the support of this bill. I think it is very important to stress that today in the Republic of Croatia for the professional recognition of foreign professional qualifications and for the purpose of employment, the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications applies. However, that law only formally confirms the value of foreign educational qualifications, diplomas and certificates issued by the competent authority for the purpose of accessing employment, and the foreign educational qualification itself implies a formal term for a certain level, i.e. the degree of knowledge acquired and skills and competences that is demonstrated by foreign school certificates, diplomas or other public corrections issued by the competent institution. Therefore, recognition under that law is exclusively about the recognition of evidence of the completion of formal education, while professional training under this procedure is not considered. In this sense, the proposal for this law is a newspaper in the Republic of Croatia, as a process of recognition will be discussed in a united process and evidence of the completion of formal education and professional training of candidates. Professional training and training after completion of formal education as well as possible professional experience. And if it is estimated that the candidate fulfils the prescribed conditions, the same will be recognised professional qualifications to perform a particular profession in the Republic of Croatia. It's very important here when I talk about this matter, to say that actually passing this law is one of the measures needed to close chapter 3. right of business creation and freedom to provide services. Therefore, as we coordinate all segments of society with European, or all legislation, and this is one very important area in which I would say that Croatia regulates its space and aligns it with European. And from the point of view, I would say the internal arrangement of the Republic of Croatia in this area, this is a very important matter, but it is also very important from the position of all those professions that this law concerns, which are, in a certain way, the next day in an integrated Europe, i.e. because of all those people who are not going to be covered by this law when it comes to the Republic of Croatia and vice versatile European space. It is certainly not the primary goal of this law, in a certain way providing support to people who will go from Croatia to Europe the next day and seek their jobs and vice versa. However, I think it should be mentioned that this legislative proposal is also significant because of our people who have acquired a certain kind of education in the world and that, in fact, tomorrow, this knowledge and these diplomas would be consistent and compatible with those in the Republic of Croatia and vice versa. Thus, it is simply to achieve a high degree of synergy and understanding or regulation of relations in this area. I think it is very important to mention here that the content of the bill is, in fact, the content of the bill and that, in addition to this bill, not only the recognition of foreign professional qualifications with the aim of a particular profession process is regulated. to carry out certain activities in the receiving country for the purpose of providing services on a temporary and occasional basis, so where it is not about carrying out a permanent economic activity. The recognition of foreign professional qualifications with the aim of access to a particular profession is also arranged. to carry out certain activities in the receiving country despite the exercise of the right to a business establishment. The recognition of professional qualifications on the basis of acquired professional experience which shows general, business and expertise shall then be arranged. Finally, the minimum training conditions, the required level of education and professional training and training and the recognition of professional qualifications are regulated on the basis of the coordination of minimum training conditions. For seven professions in the directive here we've heard of course they're doctors of medicine, doctors of dental medicine. For now in the Republic of Croatia these are still dentists with a mandatory change of academic title, then nurses for general health care, midwives, veterinarians, masters of pharmacies and architects. It is also important to say that the provisions of the law will not apply to seamen whose process of recognition of professional qualifications is regulated by specific regulations. The recognition of professional qualifications for seamen is regulated by the second Directive of 2001 on the minimum level of training of seamen and Member States and amending and supplementing Directive 2001. 25 EC is therefore to be exempt from the application of the Directive. The provisions of this law will also not apply to qualifications of persons who carry out service and brokerage tasks where they do not come into direct contact with dangerous chemicals whose professional qualification procedure has been regulated by specific regulations. The rights acquired for those seven professions in accordance with the Directive are also laid down. It is then very important to note that the national coordinator who submits the report to the European Commission on the implementation of this law is appointed by the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and that, for the purpose of implementing this law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will adopt a certain regulation of regulated professions in the Republic of Croatia. Then, for the purpose of implementing this law and the proposal for a directive, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will also provide lists which are consistent with the Annexes to the Directive. The law will apply exclusively to persons who wish to carry out a regulated profession in the Republic of Croatia while persons who wish to carry out an unregulated profession will continue to be subject to the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications in accordance with which the professional recognition procedure for employment is carried out today in the Republic of Croatia. The law will also apply to nationals or nationals of the State Contracting Parties to the Treaty on European Economic Area, and then to third-country nationals who have acquired professional qualifications in the Contracting State. Finally, recognition of foreign professional qualifications under this law will take place from the moment of accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of the European Union until the necessary administrative capacity for the implementation of this law is established. Finally, once again, I would like to stress that this law is actually a harmonisation with European legislation and as such, and otherwise, because of the essence of this law, my support as well as the support of my colleagues and colleagues of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39632	Thank you. Final Review State Secretary Željir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39633	Thank you very much. Honorable Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. Thank you very much for these discussions and for showing interest in the adoption of this law and the harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union. I'd like to particularly apostrophe the Honorable Representative Beus-Richembergh. You're focused on some other job right now, but let me just let you know for a second. Of course, we will make sure that we do everything within the deadlines provided. This law will enter into force as soon as the Republic of Croatia is in the European Union and until then we need to do all of these jobs that you've been talking about. Not only will we take care of it, but the European Commission will take care of it. So to you for information, a few days ago we received letters from them, in which it takes us to inform them by October 15th at what stage the law is passed and when you MPs in the Croatian Parliament vote on Friday and when this law is passed, then we will send them a letter before October 15th to tell them that the law has been passed in the Croatian Parliament and we will send them the text of the law, so that as far as your concerns are concerned, thank you very much, and we will take care of it. And in the end, I wouldn't have to come and show myself about the amendments. On behalf of the promoter, I accept the proposed amendments from the Committee on Legislatives and the esteemed Mr of Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39634	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39635	We are going to vote on the debated items of the agenda. We've established a quorum. First, the Final Proposal for a Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications. It was an emergency procedure. P.Z.E. No. 430. Proposer of the Law Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee and MP Krunoslav Markovanovic. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law, in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I therefore put to the vote: Proposal for a Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that the majority of votes are 95 votes in favour and one abstention of this bill, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39636	We're moving on to the next point. - Proposal for a law on the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education, first reading, P.Z. No. 438 The proposer of the law is the Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, education, science and culture, development and reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. Proposer of State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports Želimir Janjic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39637	Thank you very much. Honorable Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. Let me briefly explain the proposal of this law in the first reading. In the beginning, I would just like to point out that it is a regular procedure, that we are open to all the proposals that you will make here in the parliamentary debate, that we will consider them and install them in the second reading when we are preparing the final proposal for this law. Let me remind you, after 2000, we specifically started talking about lifelong learning as something that became said I would have a planetary hit. And when it comes to that, we are certainly talking about adult education as one of the largest segments of lifelong learning. And aware of the fact that because of the possibility of employment, because of the ability to keep a job, that we actually have such a situation now that the working-dependence population should be kept in mind that its competences are always being upgraded, that it adapts to new technological processes so that it can keep its job and that it can count on new competences. This is why we wanted to strengthen our vocational education, but this part of our lifelong learning and adult education. So let me remind you, the Professional Education Agency was founded in 2005 because of what we rated, and you in the numerous discussions that we had in the Croatian Parliament, that we should have a much stronger port, support for all our institutions that implement the vocational education programmes and that there were not enough of those nine consultants as we had at the Educational Institute. Therefore, the Agency for Professional Education was established in 2005, and then it was strengthened by the adoption of the 2006 Professional Education Act, which we here, to remind you, was highly agreed upon and this law was almost unanimously passed. A large number of MPs sitting in this High House in this meeting were both in the past assembly and discussing this law. The second institution that we are, the professional institution that we have established is the Agency for adult education. It was founded in 2006, and was strengthened a year later by the adoption of the Law on adult education. So these two agencies have been working for three or four years, and over the past few years we have been able to analyze how these jobs are going, or how many jobs and jobs and one and the other agencies are, since at this point in the past few years, probably in the future, we are talking about adult education, so over 15 years, are mainly about vocational education. These two agencies, of course, cooperate, but many times it can slow down all these processes because of what one requires of the other, etc. For these reasons, on the basis of these experiences so far, we have decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of this law, which would actually cover the activities of these two agencies in the light of a new agency because they carry out similar tasks and what they should actually do on the same projects. I won't tell you who they are, you know it very well, but the last thing we're talking about is projects that are related to pre-accession funds, IPAs, third and fourth components, etc. For these reasons, we propose that a new agency be established, but immediately we want to say that by stopping the work of these two agencies, or by setting up a new agency, that all workers who have been found in their places will be in the new agency, and that, according to the Law of the Institutions, we will appoint a temporary director and conduct all of that necessary procedure to begin with the work of this new agency. And let me say one more thing. It's, of course, secondary to all of this, what's more substantively important than what I said before, but here we can also count on certain savings. We have shown here in that financial impact assessment pattern how much it will take to implement this law, so we have said not only that it will not need funds, new means to implement this law, but it will even need a little less money, so here we have calculated that it is 430 thousand kuna and that is what we can calculate. But there's one part that we can't figure out in that way, and it's also going to be a kind of rationalization, so let me remind you. This is about the implementation of these IPA projects that we have accepted certain European Commission commitments, so it is in terms of our capacities that we can absorb those funds that are non-refundable and which are on our disposition. In particular, we have now called several competitions in September, in particular three competitions, which weigh around 16m euros. Of course, providers in the Republic of Croatia have been invited and we expect, of course, that these funds will be able to withdraw. But we, as the ministry responsible for this and the Professional Education Agency at this point, are required to be a teamed executive unit and we have accepted the obligation to end it and team up. So, by the end of 2010, we need 25 people to work on preparing and implementing these projects. We currently have 13 of them, and that is how we respect the dynamics required by the European Commission. So we need to hire another 12. If the situation were to remain this way, we would have to ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia for 12 new persons to be employed, for whom we should provide funds. However, by joining these agencies, by establishing one agency and by adopting, which will be provided for in the statute, and then by other act, by means of a regulation in the internal structure of that agency, we can count that by rationalising the jobs that one and another agency now have in that new agency, we are actually counting on those 12 new people who will take over these jobs, and there will be no additional burden on the state budget and in fact rationalisation is mostly evident in this. I'm not going to talk about these other things that when they find themselves in one place that we're going to have less rent than we have now in two locations, etc. Here's to the introduction. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39638	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Mr. Peter Selem, chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39639	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At its 21st session, our committee discussed this Proposal for a Law on the Professional Education and Education Agency as a home working body. As Mr. Secretary of State has already said, this proposal wants two existing agencies whose activity now partially complements and matches, the Agency for the Education of Adults and Professional Education Agency, this proposal unites them into a new, unique Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education. The draft law regulates the status form i.e. the accession of two existing agencies to the new agency, the basic features of the new agency, transitional solutions, including the provision to take over and deploy employees in the existing two agencies. The proposal is explained by the programming similarities of existing agencies, followed by their frequent mutual orientation to the same and similar tasks, and in particular by the savings of a financial nature which will result from the financing of one agency instead of two existing ones. In the debate, the proposal is discussed in the context of experience in the work of existing agencies established in the field of education and education. Perhaps the biggest dispute in the debate was the suggestion of a professional nature to which the applicant should respond on the occasion of establishing the final proposal of the law, which reads: “Is it necessary to decide on the proposed solution or the Professional Education Agency to unite it with the Education and Education Agency, since vocational education is only one special form of secondary education.” On the contrary, the Agency for adult education is part of an area yet to be developed in Croatia in line with European experiences, which is an area of lifelong learning, thus maintaining autonomy and developing a special agency for lifelong education. In this connection, the opinion is expressed that such a solution can be reached with the adoption of an existing proposal, since I repeat, in a status context, the proposal proposes to attach the proposed agencies to a new agency that would have yet to be established. Therefore, the adoption of the proposal does not exclude any of the proposals presented in advance, and the identity of the bill remains in place in each way. It can therefore continue to work on the existing basis until the final draft of the law has been established. Positive remarks and proposals related to other issues imposed by the draft law have also been made. Among other things, the principle note that, regardless of the final status solution, the basic issues of the future agency should be resolved directly, directly by law, and not by law in these matters, refer to the statutes which the Agency has yet to adopt. It is also indicated that transparency stemming from the proposal to amend the provisions of some other laws in the field of education and education by the proposed law. Proposers have made other comments and proposals concerning the future status of staff in the Agency as well as ambiguities about some of the conditions to be met by the members of the Management Board of the Agency. It pointed out the need for legislation to determine structures including the economy from which members of the Management Board would be appointed. Representatives of economic structures attending participation in the debate pointed out that schools, together with their founders, were responsible for organising inappropriate programmes, i.e. the lack of programmes expected by economic and other activities from the vocational education system. They stress that the economy and other activities do not have time to wait for slow changes in the education system. After the debate was held, the Committee reached the following conclusion by a majority of votes, 5 for and 3 against: The Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults, and all objections and proposals will be addressed to the Proposer in order to determine the final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39640	Thank you very much. Do they want other representatives of the board? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39641	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. This time I don't bring you good news like you didn't bring us good law. We were particularly interested in the argument from the argument that this law would achieve rationalisation, both human and financial. So when we look at it a little bit, and to actually figure out what it's about, then let's get some chronology. This is about the merger of two agencies. One and the Agency for Professional Education was established by the Government Regulation in 2005, and then amended the Law on secondary education. In July 2008, the Law on Education and Education was also passed in primary and secondary schools, and in February of this year the Law on Professional Education was passed. Therefore, this is a relevant legal framework in which the Professional Education Agency operates. The second agency, the Agency for Adult Education, was established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia Regulation in May 2006. Already in October 2007, she experienced important changes when the Agency singled out the Mobility Centre and European Union projects by adopting the Law on the Mobility Agency and EU projects, and then the Agency for adult education was practically forced into the Law on adult education in February 2007. So in just five years, two regulations and five laws are trying to regulate this area and fail. And now the proposer comes and says, "We'll try to rationalize the matter, and maybe we'll rationalize the number of regulations." In fact, he admitted that the concept on which he developed these two agencies and the legislative framework was a complete failure. And if that's how it is, let's see what he's proposing now, is there any progress here? Let me have one of these. The other day here in the Chamber, the finance minister cited as one of the important arguments some example from Velika Gorica where the head of the Public Open University has the right to dispatch. And imagine why? Because it's an actress's profession, and in Puck's Open School, there's not a single systematicized job you can deploy it to after the term's over, and now we've got a situation here that we're going to have three directors of one agency. How? It is said this proposal that there will be a temporary director, we must appoint a temporary director of this agency who, if God is good enough to be permanent enough, but that the directors of the existing two agencies will not only stay in the agency but keep working contracts with all relevant rights. This means that we will have three men who receive the principal's salary and three men who have contracted the severance payment. And now how do the three men with the severance charge get in the way? They don't bother anyone, and one of the directors of the small open school who made it a major cultural institution, she's now at... The other day, we read in the paper what these contracts look like. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And since one case in which directly the Ministry of Science is responsible has led to the payment of severances of 2 million and 100 thousand kuna. And now we have three principals here. And then they say there'll be rationalization. And all the employees join together in one. As the proposer has calculated the pay savings, it's not just plain clear to us here. Furthermore, this agency does not go conceptually into reform. Because as soon as you take over everything you've had, uncritically, as soon as you've actually included only one coverage of what you've had so far, you haven't changed anything. So the question is whether this formal rationalization is that instead of two addresses, you have one, and that is under the influence that those who act alike, that is, overlapping powers or actually something that is, let me tell you, an artificial creation that does not have a panda in the countries of the European Union. Let's get this straight. It is not good that the promoter did not shape this in the way some other countries did, and as a result we call for tradition, success, practice and not in elementary education, but in lifelong learning, where we are still thin, in the basic concept of a new knowledge society. Look what the state has done in so-called. a descriptive project. Of the 60,000 people who didn't finish primary school, as far as the plan was supposed to be done, the state managed to meet less than 10% of its plan. Only 5,000 people went through primary school procedure. Go on. How does the promoter see the position of these people on the labour market? What does the real sector want? It requires rapid training, effective training. On the other hand, the promoter created a program in which adults who did not finish primary school must spend 5 hundred hours teaching. We can talk as much as we want right now if that's the real equivalent of eight-year-old school. But the fact is that such a structured programme does not go through a sufficient number of people, remains the lowest possible positioned workforce and that the real sector does not accept it, because such people do not need it and that such people who are able then to complete their primary school through a special programme to access vocational education are very little. It is said, among other things, that by passing this law, a new agency would play a clearly defined role. I wonder if that's what the Proposer himself did to himself, admitting that the agencies so far had no clear role to play. After 5 laws and two regulations, the Proposer takes the view that only this sixth step will finally come to the point where he could possibly be satisfied with what he has done. The promoter says that due to the different legal frameworks governing the areas of their activities, difficulties have arisen in ways of addressing the needs of the users of the system whose functions have led to a reduction of opportunities for the uniform and full management of the system of vocational education and adult education. It is true that, in connection with the activities of the current agencies, the users of the system, thought primarily here at the facilities, had some difficulties. But these problems and difficulties are not organisational in nature, but they came first of all from the chaos of a system that is now considered in part by the Ministry of Science itself, so it happens that our entire secondary education is problematic because it is not in line with the needs of employers. From high school, we have a massive stock market, not a labour market, because the stock market is not necessarily a labour market. It's the same way we get lost by high school graders and don't finish it. There are many examples like this, and that is the problem of the system. And then we happen to have more and more adult people in this status that we're trying to include them with adult education, professional education, and on the other hand, we have a situation with high professional training that we have. Both with average and percentages and level of education in society. The proposer further points out that the establishment of this agency will create a single database that will serve as a means of facilitating monitoring, improving the system and its international comparability. So after only this year these two agencies have spent 51 million 366 thousand 988 kuna, so without those spent millions in 2008, 2007, 2006 and 2005, since they were established, then without the millions of euros spent from the CARDS project, professional education and the CARDS education of adults will now grant new budgets to the new agency, new millions of kunas in order to form some database that we know already existed in the Ministry of Science. Well, the ministry already has a database on all users, all schools, both primary and secondary. All the facilities they're dealing with. What kind of data do we have to pay in particular now? The interpretation of the law that this law will achieve some kind of rationalization seems unconvinced to us. The integration of vocational education and adult education is in fact almost equalising these two categories which are significantly, significantly different. Will it be possible for the personnel, who are now in the agency? Will it be possible for people who have not been admitted to public competitions? Secretary of State why you were canceling the competitions in these agencies, and why you weren't taking people but taking people around, taking over, by grandma, by uncles, you want me to tell you the man from Velika Gorica who's busy past the public competition and who hired him, I won't because you're going to say again that I have something against someone personally. I'm telling you in principle, I'm saying what I know, where it comes from, and those are arguments. What we can expect from this agency when such employment is done and what is now being teamed together, it is actually one marriage where spouses are incompatible in the future, but each other doesn't really try for a new value, so they're going to need help. We have not reached the level, unfortunately, of this bill that the HNS would be pleased with, and therefore, unfortunately, we cannot support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39642	Thank you. We have two corrections first Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39643	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague, Beus Richembergh, said that with this bill of law, which we covered with this proposal, these two things were done nothing. It is not true, this bill is in the first reading and Mr. Secretary of State has made it clear that it remains open to any further proposals etc, but you are in standard your negative approach and denying everything and everything indeed already proved that you know in advance that it will not do anything. Of course this law will improve and that this area should be improved naturally in cooperation with local and regional self-government units, and certainly but if you are pre-sightly then I do not know what can be done further.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39644	Thank you. Correction by Mrs Ivanka Roksandić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39645	Thank you, Mr. President. Don't politicize with education, my colleague Beus didn't owe it to education, and you did start at the introduction. It is incorrect to say that this agency will have three directors at one point, no, read the final and transitional provisions. I know that it's hard for you to compare that your principal, which is quite something else, has a manager's contract because you know in advance that she will no longer be the principal, so you have to pay her the manager's contract because you don't have her as a graduate actress where to place her. These three directors are not directors, one is temporary, and these two will be deployed to new jobs, so they won't get neither severance nor have a manager's contract, just to point out what's going on in Velika you pointed out here, that's not true. Don't deceive the public this facility is something quite different from that of your Open University that was brought by the manager's contract to your principal. Don't change that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39646	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State Želimir Janjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39647	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, allow me to say a few things for clarifications that you brought out here so as not to go public with incorrect information. So, when you mentioned these three directors, thank you very much to Mrs. Roksandić that she fixed it, it's about the next one. There's not a single agency in any of the agency's leading posts in this education section. I will list to you the Agency for adult education, Mobility and EU programmes, the Agency for Professional Education, the Agency for Education and Education and the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, so five of them have, not more. At the head of none, there is a director who has the right to any manager's contract, what you're talking about can be in some university, some Public Open University whose founder state is not. The 93-year Law on Institutions was the founder until then but the Law said that founding rights have been passed on to cities and since then the cities have been founders. Whether in Velika Gorica or elsewhere, whether the city decided to give someone a manager's contract is their business, but this ministry didn't do it with any agency and your thesis that it would happen with the directors that were so now it's going to become one unfortunately isn't like that. Furthermore, when you talk about the descriptive project, as we call it in the jargon, it is a project for Croatian literacy and a path to the desired future from 2003 to 2012 that project is being implemented. It would be better if it were more involved in this project, they're all over 15 years old who didn't finish the entire primary school. You're talking about 500 hours it's not like that. If someone didn't just finish the 8th radio, he'd spend 19 weeks who wouldn't happen to be 500 hours and finish that 8th grade and finish one part of his education, if it's about 2 classes, then it'll be two times 19 hours, it's educational periods. Only 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th are connected into one and that ends in 19 weeks. All this other stuff is possible in one year to finish two classes, and that's what we have. What we especially enjoy has a lot of Roma who have finished school in this way, and then, the state pays them all and then they have the right to finish one training program for something, the manager of some kind of construction machine for 150 hours and the state pays for it. But it's not 500 hours. When you talk about the needs of the economy, you're actually talking about registration policy. If this was what the Ministry would say about high school records now, we're making a decision, we don't ask any more schools, we're not asking more county than we're determining enrolment because I have an insight where you need to, then I'm sure you'd say you're centralised instead of decentralisation, it's now decentralised. What needs to be said clearly is that everyone has a part of his responsibility in the registration policy and education for the needs of the economy in that micro-regional that applies to them, so the school proposes to his founder of the county, and the county knows in its area of what the staff needs, and then gives credits, gives scholarships to cooperating with economic operators and asks them what they need. And then when they agree to send us to the Ministry and we make a decision on that basis. So that's the way, the question is just how many in the chain each of them in that decentralised part accepts that responsibility. So that's what we're talking about. Don't point your finger at the ministry and say you're responsible for that part, everyone in one part is responsible and this process, unlike the previous times, has a little bit more important to run better. So count on us to have such a situation in the future that they will take care of what staff will be trained, that they will not be tailored towards employed teachers in schools, but indeed according to the needs of the economy in that county. If we set ourselves up like that, if everyone in the chain does so, there's no need to change that approach because it's decentralised. So when they ask the Croatian Chamber of Commerce if you will object if we are to enroll several hairdressers departments in Istria, and we know that there are them at the Employment Office, then the Croatian Chamber of crafts, that is to say, if you see we have our members, they have their own shops, they pay the state taxes. If we're going to fabricate more then some of them will be working on black and unfair competition for those who pay all the dues. That's not right. So they will agree, I quote it as an example because they did it and they have entered a much smaller number than what was proposed. It's the right thing to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39648	Thank you. SDP club, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39649	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates at the very beginning to say the SDP club will not support the adoption of this law. We believe that if this law is adopted in this concept in which it is proposed, it will cause damage to the system itself, more support to the system, and then, consequently, to the system of education, to create legal confusion, to seek a new amendment to the laws and regulations that have been passed. A colleague, Beus, did quite well a while ago, put out all that chronology that I would not repeat, but what seems to me and very important will also cause confusion in the very responsibilities within the system. We of the SDP view the debate on this law as actually an opportunity for once, and unfortunately for the first time here to discuss how we are actually creating a system that needs to support the education system in terms of educational institutions, which is why schools themselves, in some way, hope, and do. We've heard this before, and we've heard it in a few years, almost post-modernly founded agencies, and we've never really discussed why some agencies are being set up and what should be their responsibilities, or we haven't discussed it in the package, but rather with a year apart. Some of them made the government a regulation, so after a year, to put it that way, we legalized them in the laws themselves. For us in the SDP, it is unquestionable that some professional affairs should be deprived of the policies and of these administrations, so to speak, and to separate them from the ministry which must remain inspection oversight and the administration itself that professional affairs must be done in specialised agencies. However, when we went to look at the work done by the agencies themselves, we saw that not only were there no overlaps but that no one simply did, or that the agencies in which they were superficially imagined and how we set them up, they simply could not meet the requirements of time, and then on the other hand, the system itself. For example, and compared to these agencies, take the system of secondary schooling, secondary vocational education. Part of the programme being conducted in secondary vocational schools is general education, and it is, as I say, supported by the Education and Education Agency, which deals only with general education. The second part relating to vocational education is supported by the Professional Education Agency. If we can accept, as an argument, that in this part of the integration of adult education and vocational education in one part of it overlaps, although it is a superficial deduction of adult education to only vocational education, I will say something later on, then it seems to us that a more valid argument, given the larger number of institutions and users, includes secondary education in one agency, secondary vocational education. Because if it's a problem for these service providers, let me put it this way, in adult education to communicate with two agencies, or to communicate with them, then it's a much bigger problem to communicate with high schools. So this argument in this sense overlapping jurisdiction seems to me that it's not actually valid, or that there's this other one that's more important than it is. What we think in the SDP is that by leading to a clean and unambiguous logic of actually joining, if there is anything at all we need to combine, we need to connect the Education and Education Agency with this Professional Education Agency, and this Agency for Adult Education finally set up the way it should and what it should be, and that's the Lifelong Learning Agency. Namely, to go back to what I just said about adult education and reducing it to vocational education. The fact is that about 70 to 80% of all adult education programs are professional programs. It simply can't be a good reason to bring these agencies together because simply the user structure, so to speak, these users of these two agencies, the methodology of work, the objectives simply defined in the adult education strategy are in fact, in some ways, in this proposal and this kind of reduction is being contained, and they are partly giving up. Just to give up the program, it's not some newspaper and strategy of this government, but here we just have to say enough, let's see what we really need to do. There is something in Europe, in the European Union a programme called "Integrated Lifelong Learning Program" which does not have an adequate variant and in the situation of the insecure market of the 21st century when we cannot guarantee the safety of the job that the state has to provide for it, which is to guarantee the safety of employment. Employment security can be guaranteed to our citizens in such a way that in that situation when their professions become either unnecessary or obsolete on the labour market, we provide them with fast qualifications, rapid educations and even changes in professions. And it's done in the process of primarily lifelong learning where there's going to be more upgrades, and less of these complements, so to speak, changing professions. I think it was already said in the committee's report, the economy really doesn't have time to wait decades to complete educational reforms. Now instead of setting up this flexible system of lifelong learning where we have to have an agency that would do the accreditation of lifelong learning programs, we have reduced our first lifelong learning to adult education, and by joining this agency we will actually almost do so. Data are known that in Scandinavia, which boasts good and economic and educational results, but also the standard of the population, because these are all interdependent things, at almost every moment 20 percent of the workers participate in some form of lifelong learning. These don't have to be strictly formal forms. These are very often informative forms of education, unlike for us in Croatia where such forms of training are of workers, they simply do not exist. Somewhere I've read the data barely one in three years somehow as much as it participates in some kind of minimum education program. Therefore, we believe that the debate on this law is an opportunity to primarily correct the wrongly set system of lifelong learning that we have repeated, misrepresented to adult education. Some of us who were in the last term talked about it in this way when we passed the Law on adult education, but then simply for such attitudes there was no hearing. I must admit that by reading the reasoning of the law in the debate on the board, and even now listening to the opening statement of the motion, I still haven't been able to figure out why we are actually joining these agencies? What's the real reason? We can't even take the linguist education of adults and professionals under this term, so the name of the agency will be partially unscathed. However, we will not achieve any savings, but perhaps those in the future that you will not have to hire new employees and have problems with the government whether to allow the employment of new employees. Because the law and this proposal provide for all employees of both existing agencies to be taken over into the new agency, which means there is no reduction in the number of employees. It is not possible to place the agency in one common space, which means that as part of a single unit that needs to be in the future, it will remain in the rented premises, which means there is no reduction in the cost of renting space. At the Agency for Adult Education, we currently have a class. Director, we don't have a deputy, we don't have an assistant. It's already been said here they'll stay in their seats and on their salaries as they have so far. Therefore, there is no rationalisation of the costs of that management staff. Therefore, personally neither I nor my colleagues from the SDP, some will talk about it in detail more in their individual discussions, we simply do not see any rational reason, why these two agencies should join together and why mergers are generally as such. We are afraid in the SDP that we will arrive in a year or two from the government with another proposal to reunite some of the two, three or five agencies, or start a new one, because simply because what was praised as the ministry's achievement, that we have made agencies, that we now have to do professional work outside the ministry, now we're giving up on it in some way. Although the applicant here has expressed its willingness to amend the law until the second reading, we in the SDP consider it difficult to fix, because it is simply a concept that is wrongly set. If these remarks have been adopted so far in the debate, it will simply not be this law anymore. And for the reason that the law is conceptively bad, which does not bring rationalization and ultimately offers no valid argument why we are just putting together something that is very difficult to connect, which we very much advocated only two or three years ago. For reasons you don't know what you want, it seems to me in the education system, or what you won't, or where we're going, or where we are, we won't support this law. And in fact, in this context, we want to warn and take advantage of the occasion in this debate, say that the government has adopted a document called the Education System Development Strategy 2005. In 2010, where certain objectives are defined. As the days go by in 2010, it gets closer and closer and closer, so it seems to me that more and more things from the strategy we give up in some way from them. And the new announcements that have come about extending the duration of compulsory education in terms of extending the duration of general education go against these strategies and some of the discussions we had before. And I think it would be better to stick to a bad strategy than to make the decisions in a verse, and this is a classic example of such a decision, as we have so far had much too much from the field of education. So let's just drive around in something that's been drawn as bad as it was, rather than drive in any lane, because we're just now, I'm afraid, doing something we're not going to be able to fix, and in a year, two or three we're going to come back with some kind of change that's going to be equally wrong and that equally bad won't have its own purpose, and then it won't bring improvement to the education system itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39650	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Agent Anton Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39651	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the ministry. Well corrected, my colleague listed these incorrect allegations very much. It's like there's going to be a mess, that the goals of adult education are lost, that we can't combine adult education, professional education, that the concept is wrong. I'm sure it's not on the board on which we discussed regional development, and I see it's also in this second Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, so that's what it gets. I personally support and believe that the concept is good. I think I know the system and the people who worked to know the education system. Because if you go to high school, we've only recently received something in vocational education. Our vocational schools have been completely neglected, they've been given that law, and this connection will give us exactly what others here notice. Is the labour market and education appropriate or necessary? When this one and the other agency merges, I think that's going to get an overview. Only in one part would it be possible for a lifetime of education, it may not belong here in writing, but that we will get it, and I'm telling you that the concept fully fits and that you're not right at all. You're wrongly speaking as politically as a colleague before you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39652	State Secretary Želimir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39653	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, I want to make it clear that we have set up an Professional Education Agency which has been established as a powerful institution and in the system you can ask any high school, you can ask any popular open school how much support they have from the Professional Education Agency. The agency that has a number of jobs behind it, I am not talking about those who are facing the European Union, but just to say about those that apply exclusively to us. So, the appointed Council for Professional Education, so the system is set up as a strategic body that will consider the system and actually keep it flexible and supplement it, meet the needs of the economy. Furthermore, this is something you have on our web site at the Professional Education Agency. Furthermore, you have sectoral councils. And it is also quite clear that it is transparent with a very clear structure that we have defined in the law together with you here in the Croatian Parliament. So whose tasks among other things will be to professional curricula, etc. The kind of work we've been working so hard on, the way we planned it. So, one institution we can really boast about. You don't have to believe what the secretary of state says, but you can ask any school what support is to the system of vocational education which 75% of the entire system of secondary education now, and what was it like 10 years ago? So that's what we have to say very clearly. Secondly, when it comes to the Agency for Adult Education, I will remind you, in 2004, the Government of the Republic of Croatia appointed a Council for the Education of Adults. So, not the Ministry of Education and Sports, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has called it the Council for Adult Education. This Council for the Education of Adults, which is the largest part of people from the National Competitiveness Council. So they brought a strategy of vocational education. In that strategy, they said the law would be passed. I'm sorry, I was wrong to say, an adult education strategy, not a professional one, and there's a law on adult education to be passed. That law has been passed. So it wasn't in that termological part of 2004 until today that nothing changed. And then, of course, it was talked about lifelong learning, so when it was discussed, it was this assessment that our reality is that most of our life's learning is actually found in part of adult education. We wish it wasn't like you said in your debate 80% are professional programs. It would be great if someone were so interested that they wanted to go through some sort of training program in a part that wasn't a vocational education, so let's just say I was curious about whether there was a part of me that I was particularly interested in at a philosophy college somewhere, like old Rome. We don't have it at this point, unfortunately, that's the kind of time we want to thank God, but at this point we don't have it. This is, of course, the first reading, this is a broad discussion, so we can start with adult education and end with the extension of compulsory education, etc., so all these are rules of procedure, of course allowed. But what I'm saying is that we're in a situation where we're building this system, and I had to mention an vocational education where this job is really very good going so that we don't get the impression that we're going to do this for God's sake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39654	HDZ club Mrs. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39655	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, Associates, Director of the Professional Education Agency, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community's club discussed the bill, and at the very beginning I will say that we will support the bill. And why is that? A few of us right at the HDZ club are people from practice, from vocational education, here is colleague Mance, colleague Šima Djurdjevic, colleague Susana Bilić-Vardić, so all the people who came from practice and imagine just from the vocational education that we really have with our experience can testify what happened backwards I would say here from the personal experience of almost thirty years of this education. And when this Professional Education Agency was established, and so did the Agency for Adult Education and almost everyone who worked in vocational education, we had to be involved in adult education because it was really connected in practice we were glad to finally have one agency that supported the Ministry of Education in order to reform vocational education. It is precisely in order to develop a system of education and reform that has taken place a whole series of activities, and we need to be clear there and we need to bear witness to everyone in this Assembly that they have been passed over the last five, six years of the laws that introduce the paper into education, mainly in the field of lifelong learning and vocational education. Strategic documents have also been brought to remind me that this is a plan for the development of the education and education system from 2005 to 2010 and that the foundations of the establishment and agencies and the reforms of vocational education have been drawn here. The State Secretary himself said that more than 75% of pupils and students are mostly going and educated in the field of vocational education. So, it's precisely them that should be paid attention and I'm going to tell you that back thirty years about them was the least she cared about. The easiest way was to bring programs from high school or general education classes and, unfortunately, the profession was always in the last place. One of the important objectives of this already mentioned adult education regulation by the State Secretary, which was adopted in 2004, was to prepare for the interest and professional promotion of young people. In addition to the adoption of the Professional Education Act in January 2005 With the establishment of the Professional Education Agency, the government has accepted a very difficult and not so simple task of developing vocational education. The basic task of this agency for which I am here, the director is here, I would like to point out that she has taken the first major steps in the reform of education and included all the social partners, all the partners that are important for the development of vocational education and Croatian Association of Employers, and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, and the Croatian Employment Institute. Therefore, they were all involved in the creation of new programmes and proposals made by the agency. And what was the agency doing and doing? First of all, she cared about training teachers, defined the national classification framework, developed programmes, and developed still. It's a long-term procedure and it's not easy to finish. What programs? In particular, they have made it possible to achieve the necessary student competences for labour market needs and higher education institutions, as well as national and regional development. The agency used local self-government units, regional practice above all, the institutions that said we need that and that. It is difficult for dear colleagues to achieve this because when planning to enrol in vocational schools, the interests of both individuals and parents are important, and it is normal for the market in these conditions in which it works today to look for certain staff and then for educational institutions to be flexible and thus treat the labour market. Education cannot always and must not be too flexible, because then there would be a mess in the system. What did the agency do? It was carried out at the outset, which is extremely good, so far we've had most of the controversial experience, but the agency has started to carry out an analysis of the labour market whose result was immediately visible, a reduction in the number of professional professions. It set up sectoral councils for professional sectors that have drawn up proposals for professional professions. I'm just going to mention that she has made a major step forward as part of the CARDS programme for 2.68m euros to improve vocational education. In 14 vocational schools in Croatia, it opened new technology centres. I know of one such at the Technical School in Sisak, which is not only for that school, but includes all the interests of the entire Sisak-Moslavina County that go to practice at this Center for New Technologies, but not just regular programs, regular students, but also those who are educated, adults who are educated for the needs of the economy. So they're included. She started working with partners to develop programmes aimed at acquiring, I was already saying, professional competences according to examined labour market requirements. Full learning involves the acquisition of knowledge and competences today, colleague Lugarić said well, according to living and professional needs equally important in all kinds of learning, both formally and informally and informally. The Agency has recognised such forms for vocational education and has introduced them into the programmes, and I can say that it has just begun and created good preconditions not only for a regular system of vocational education but also for what we call adult education. The Agency for Adult Education does similar things. So these two agencies worked separately, and from this exposure we can see that in their activities they overlap. As the tasks of these agencies are similar, it would be good to unite them into one institution. Therefore, we will accept this proposal, with a note that we are asking, and these are technical notes, to better define those branches that are otherwise defined in the draft law in Article 7. Because what the branches mean, does this mean that the future agency will establish a large number of branches where it comes to mind? We think it should be better defined by law that these are branches. We also think that it should be defined by law by the members of the board of directors of this agency and that it should certainly include members coming from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Ministry and the Agency, because that is the only way in which we could satisfy all these partners who, in the future agency and in these two so far, have their own interests above all towards education. Here, we will support this law in the first reading along with these suggestions we made for a change of articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39656	Thank you. Two notices. The session of the Committee for Maritime, Transport and Communications will be held today at 13:30 in the hall "Janko Drašković", hall 202. Both the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security session scheduled for today at 13.30 p.m. will move for Thursday 1st October at 10 o'clock at Josipa Jelačić's hall. Now we're going to an individual debate. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39657	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Secretary with associates, fellow MPs. In any case, any savings, rationalization is to support and commend. I don't think that's questionable in that sense, because we can politicise here whether or not these agencies should be put together, but I think it would be more important here to discuss the content and roles of those agencies and that is, in principle, the essence of this issue and why this agency wants to justify its goal. Therefore, in my view, it is very important that the new governance structure that will be at the head of this agency is really well qualified to try to solve all those shortages and problems of vocational education, which I know to say that already the sparrows on the roofs try to make some progress in this area. And where are the problems? Well, the problems are certainly, and I think we all know, that I'm not going to find anything new here, and then it's just a question of why it might be so slow and why it doesn't work out sooner and faster. The problem is the first harmonisation of the system of vocational education with the needs of the labour market. This is also one of the major problems in this field of labour markets, obviously and in this compliance with the education system, one government has fallen apart. Obviously, no one is detecting, that no one is following what are the real needs, which these occupations are deficiting today in Croatia where more investment needs to be made and how to preserve such occupations that they stay in Croatia. Some employers scream that they lack skilled labour, that labour should be imported from outside Croatia and thus simply compensate for what we do not have. But we are aware that even now we are importing part of the workforce, importing a part of the controlled labour force that they are getting work permits, and one part is uncontrollable, which basically disappears on the gray labour market, which is one problem that we know, but unfortunately enough before that problem we close our eyes. We also know what our deficits are. We know that they are builders, that they are waiters, that they are postmen, that they are roofers, that they are pastries, and that I could still list dozens of such occupations that are recorded as deficitary in Croatia. So this isn't what I made up, it's what someone detected. It is also that the number of craftsmen is reduced year by year, and the best indicator when you look at the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, and then you see that, for example, since 2005, when the Government founded the Professional Education Agency, 83749 of those who paid their contributions were registered somewhere, for example, the most qualified data, and that today, unfortunately, they are somewhere, that this figure has been reduced to 79,000. Now we're asking why? If, on the one hand, we detect that we have deficiting occupations. There's an even bigger problem in agriculture. There's an even worse situation in agriculture. In 2005, we had 46726 farmers, and at the end of this year, last year, there were only 39824 farmers left. When I tell the farmer, I mean the professions that are related, what are the professions that are related to this activity. Croatia has no right to exterminate certain professions in the profession or craft because of future generations, and this is the worst with growing unemployment in Croatia. Because I think some responsible individuals have not done well or have done enough to motivate and educate certain people for certain deficiting professions. Another problem that is also clear and detected, and no problem like that is that we don't know it. This is insufficient investment in the development of human resources, especially from individual companies that should be more involved in the scholarship and further motivate the education of deficiting professions and thus directly contribute to the relief of unemployment rather than the way labour should be introduced, introduce foreign labour in Croatia. I'm sure you'd have to have a bigger role to play in the craftsman's chamber. I know she's engaged in part-time, but I think she should certainly be one body that would warn and publicly if it should criticise what hasn't been done. Then, too, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports should certainly do more for me in training teachers for professional subjects. If we know that this is one of the major problems of vocational education because it has been listening for years to cry out the education system, how inadequate is the education of vocational teachers, and there is no standard of teacher interest, which results in insufficient competence to work in the teaching and non-standardisation of higher education programs in which most teachers acquire qualifications for continuing work. So you should also see what the Croatian Employment Service is doing. If we have more and more people without a job laying down there, and we have certain occupations that are deficiting for us why the Employment Service of these people with requalifications also does not further educate for these deficiting professions, and why it may in principle no longer be in contact with local communities to see what needs are and how to reduce the number of unemployed in this Employment Office, which means to direct people to those occupations that are employed on the labour market. I think he's fine and the secretary said there's no excuse either way that he doesn't have the funds. The funds are good enough. The funds have been from this CARDS project these years, the funds are now from the IPA pre-accession programme. It has, therefore, only needs to be seen whether these funds are being used in a quality way, whether they have been used precisely for these programmes and these objectives for which, in principle, those agencies should or should have become an agency. And in what way to motivate, reward students for missing occupations. I think it's very important, because then, in principle, we would have had far less expenditure and a state budget for certain social needs, because we would normally have less social problems. As far as this new agency is concerned, I expect a lot of it and I can see that it expects a pretty big job if it will work in the spirit of its name, and in particular it will have to deal with the area of lifelong learning that was also mentioned here, because without which there is no safe quality development of this society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39658	Thank you. Mr. Representative Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39659	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, state secretaries with associates. We live and work in our country of the Republic of Croatia at the door of the European Union and here at least in the Political Assembly we are all proud that Croatia will be if God is a full member in a few years. But when we talk about education, then words and deeds are really important, especially when we talk about Croatian education in the context and European education. So we are at the door of the European Union, the Republic of Croatia does not yet have the correct system of lifelong education. We are at the door of the European Union, and we do not have a system of recognition of informal and informative education at all. We also seem to be in a situation where the concept of adult education is not quite understood properly, but also the concept of vocational education, and there are no unique ones, so I will repeat the unique research into the needs of the labour market which then follows the correct measurement and definition of learning outcomes. Now, here's the deal. This is what we do not have, and we need to have, and we follow certain obligations with membership in the European Union. I won't list all these obligations, but enough is enough to say that we have to drastically reduce the number of students who, under quotes, fall out of education without getting a qualification. But in the next ten years, we will have to have 12 and a half percent of the population in the process of lifelong learning. Now, this law doesn't help to achieve it at all. This law further deepens the problem of our education. I'll be happy to say it now. So we're talking about mergers, even better say, really blending two agencies because adult education simply fits into vocational education. Cardinal error. It's really a cardinal mistake. Two agencies. The first is the Agency for Adult Education. Two years ago, Dragan Primorac stood here and told us that the best example for Croatia to prepare a knowledge society is a drastically increasing budget for the agency. What he forgot to tell us was that in the fall of 2007, with five people grew to over 30, and now with these contracts of action and what's still with the agency has almost 50 people, according to different types of contracts are related to the agency. He also forgot to tell us that in a year, colleagues and colleagues, the agency changed five directors. A little over a year. I had a single CARDS project, and I had the honor of being familiar with that project from beginning to end, and I followed that project. Otherwise, just so you know, the insecure implementation by the agency was so much that the project implementation unit changed three times, completely whole. I mean, at least those people the agency gave to participate in the execution of that CARDS project. Three project implementation units have changed. We have a week of adult education. The agency literally came down, if one of you followed her work, that it was a service of the staff, was a service to the mere open universities for short training programs, which led to another mistake, which I guess started to consider adult education to be actually an education of people without qualifications or with a need to describe. Tell me, what is this agency, or is it even better what the new agency is going to give to a highly educated person who wants to get further education and go into the adult education system? Nothing. She couldn't give it then, she won't give it now. But what a successful agency was, though, was also an example of political staffing which, in the end, led to the fact that this agency was extremely dysfunctional. The second Agency for Professional Education is a large part of the opposite of this one. Although it was also burdened with politics, it is still a far more successful agency. But the mistake that exists here now, which we have already heard today in the Assembly, is that vocational education is part of high school. No, vocational education isn't necessarily part of high school and that's a big problem. This problem and this thinking has led to chaos in the training programmes and chaos in the labour market, and yet none of these agencies have made sure to stop, to make a really normal system of what kind of programs exist, how... on the labour market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The merger, i.e. the merger of these two agencies, raises certain questions. First of all, as far as the law is concerned. The law is truly extremely general. It's a really general law. If you want to open it, find the activities of the new agency, professional education is mentioned over 20 times, adult education twice. So much for the new agency. It is true that adult education will literally be reduced to part of vocational education, which is disastrously bad for the Republic of Croatia. We can't let that happen. Adult education is not just about vocational education, and vocational education is not about secondary education. And I guess that's the problem nobody wants to admit and solve. Another thing, EU projects. Dear Secretary of State, I do a little bit of that. The agency, if they were to bend the criteria, at least AO, if they were to bend the criteria, there aren't 12 people who can do this job, maybe five have it. The other thing is the IPAs. You know that the Professional Education Agency has an IPA to strengthen capacity. You know AO's got an IPA to boost capacity. Well, we won't be allowed two IPAs of the same job. We de facto will probably lose one project. We'll see about that. These two IPA projects will be united. Okay. We'll see. We'll see about that. I sincerely hope they will, so they don't lose that money. In order not to lose that money and also not to reduce the project implementation units, because if they decrease it means losing jobs. So that's for real. The third thing is databases. They've already mentioned them here on a few occasions. ASSU has its own database, AO has, certain bases probably have a ministry. I have had the honour of looking at these databases and there will be big problems with them because at this point they are highly incompatible, and a lot of money has been spent on them, which is from the state budget, which is from EU projects. Let's not waste years or two years to bring the database together, because it's going to be both the labour market and the ones that really need to be educated. In conclusion, actually, I don't owe too much, because I find this a really bad suggestion. Because I'm going to repeat again there's no proper vertical lifelong learning, and this way will be confused, I'm going to repeat a very bad system in which adult education goes to vocational education and by which vocational education is viewed in the wrong way only as high school education. This will deepen problems that will actually be an expensive mistake, because someone will have to pay at the end and financially and all to solve these problems. So, from this law there is obviously no actual social usefulness, at this point I de facto ask you to consider changing it drastically until the second reading or starting from the beginning and starting to line up a proper system of lifelong learning from bottom to top. There he is, so much for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39660	Thank you. At 11 and 39, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. Mr. Representative Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39661	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, I thought, I was prepared for this exhibit and thinking about giving up or cutting it short, but when I saw these discussions before me, colleagues and colleagues who said mostly in that part of the hall, I'll take my own right to give myself the pain of this debate. I thought that we would agree on this and give our constructive proposals to another reading, and then in the second reading, fix what can be fixed, but I see that the debate on behalf of clubs and individually moves in one other direction that this is not a good proposal. Two independent agencies operate in the Republic of Croatia whose activity is aimed at monitoring, improving, developing, evaluating education in the field of secondary vocational education and adult education. This legislative proposal establishes a new agency with the aim of uniting activities in the field of vocational education, adult education, and regulates its status, activity and framework for organisation. The new agency will bear the name of the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education and will carry out activities with an emphasis on lifelong learning aimed at improving knowledge, skills, competence for personal, social and professional needs. This Legislative Proposal brings together the Agency for the Education of Adults and the Professional Education Agency in a new Professional Education and Education Agency and ceases to exist as independent legal persons. A Agency for adult vocational education as a legal successor to all tasks, dispatch, correspondence, and other documentation, means of work, financial resources and the rights and obligations of workers of those agencies. By adopting this Act, the Agency for the Education of Adults and the Professional Education Agency will join the new Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education and cease to exist as independent legal persons. For the implementation of this Act, no additional resources are needed in this year 2009, but we can see from the material that in 2010 the establishment of one Professional Education and Adult Education Agency would save around 430 thousand kuna in the state budget. For all these reasons, I support the proposal of the Law on the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education in the first reading, and I certainly expect, until the second reading, the constructive proposals of all of us and of the committees and individuals to regulate this Law as best for students and those whose knowledge and skills are absolutely necessary in this harsh European labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39662	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39663	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. I felt the need for this debate to go a little bit over, say some things because it seems to me that we have come to a false dilemma where we are discussing the form, and in fact the debate shows that the dilemma that we need to resolve in the area of the content of the affairs that both agencies are doing. Mr. Secretary of State in one of your interventions you spoke about the successes of the Professional Education Agency and its reputation enjoyed by the user of the system and the whole story, I simply have nothing to add and that is true and the Professional Education Agency has, in spite of its little problems, let's call it children's diseases, has its own visibility and professional affirmation and that part is not problematic. What is our problem is the story of adult education, or lifelong learning. They told colleagues that it seems to them that this part of adult education that needs to be conducted in terms of professional planning at the Agency for Adult Education by a new one in some new agency drowns in vocational education, it literally does not drown, it will literally drown there. And it seems to me that my colleague Mondekar is right when he says that vocational education is actually taking place on two fronts. One part that takes place through the formal high school system, and the other part is also formal education, outside of the formal education system, and that is what makes the Pučko Open School in terms of acquiring professional qualifications, i.e. vocational education, which takes place in two different areas. If that's what we want and that's why we're uniting these two agencies, then this new agency can be called the Professional Education Agency. The part that we're missing, which we haven't developed, and you Mr. Secretary of State are right when you talk about these problems that we have in this lifelong learning and in the difference between the existing and the desired state. But we're not going to get to the desired state by saying we need this, we don't have it, and for that we have weak capacities, and we're going to suspend the work on that part temporarily. So, if we have somewhat arranged a system in adult education relating to the acquisition of vocational qualifications and what is vocational education, what can be done at the Agency for Professional Education, but all that is not an vocational education, what is initial training in the business, what is, in terms of schooling not a new qualification but simply improving quality and some additional competences that people in already existing professions, all that would be given under an information education that must have one necessary but very small regulation in terms of accreditation, it is something that does not belong to vocational education and that is something that does not belong to this agency, it is especially another job. And all of what we're saying, in fact opposing the merger of these two agencies, is not going against the professional education agency, but affirming the concept of lifelong learning that at least nominally now existed through the Agency for the Education of Adults now de facto ceases to exist. And that is, the problem of this Law, it is not as much a problem form as he is the problem of the content that we have as time goes on will be increasingly necessary, increasingly necessary because of all the arguments that we have heard here in the debate regarding both the labour market and the employability of our citizens. And we put it under the carpet and said that we would discuss it in another time and that is the concept problem of this Law. If this Package Law came in something called the Lifelong Learning Strategy or the development of an accreditation system, something that would show that there is a () will in the Government and the Ministry, b) understanding of that, then this might be acceptable. But only maybe. In a situation where two systems don't blend together, but this little one that didn't work, and you know it better than I do in this formal sense, the Agency for adult education literally drowns in vocational education, this just isn't good because most of what we really need is going to go away. And in that sense, the argument that you said about the number of people who can be reasonable from the point of view of rationalising the number of people in the state administration and employment. If we have people at the Agency for Adult Education who didn't work and now we're going to assign them harder jobs in this department for EU programmes they're going to change the nominal job, we're going to meet the numbers that are being asked of us but these people won't know how to do the job. Because we'll settle for the number of employees without new employment. So, that somewhere and behind the key, it is not a problem in vocational education we need to know somewhere very clearly that it is taking place in two areas, in the field of formal... system and this Andragogic area and that on the other hand the area of lifelong learning in our laws and decisions of the Government is misrepresented to adult education, we cannot say that there is no more going to hit it on the head and not allow it to develop but to adopt special documents or regulations or work on that that restrictions that exist in all our life learning simply working to overcome them and to involve as many of our people as possible in our lifelong learning programmes. And it seems to me the biggest problem of this law that focuses on one form, I can only find as much justification as I can to pass this law, but it is simply not a good enough reason to support this law here in the Croatian Parliament and in this way formed. By the way, a few very concrete remarks about the articles themselves because I am afraid that despite this debate that has shown these problems will continue to persist on this concept. Article 4 of the Agency shall, inter alia, carry out evaluations in the system of vocational education. Under the Law on the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education, evaluation is done by the National Centre, which is another proof that we have not fully resolved the activities of overlapping within the activities. It was mentioned here, I think my colleague Roksandic mentioned the centres of new technologies, which sounds great, but these new technologies don't have new technologies. They're new to our education system because we haven't worked out, but they're technologies that work in the economy. New technology means something completely new. So, conveniently sounds but it simply isn't, it should have found some other expression. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in At least the internal structure of the agency must be resolved in terms of the law cannot all be left to the statute, I think it was similar to that of the branches. I'm warning the Education and Education Agency already has branches, so we'll have two parallel agencies with parallel branches. I'm not sure how rational that is. Article 9(4), that the President, or a member of the Governing Council, may not be if he has the power to condemn a criminal offence that makes him not worthy of his duties. I think my definition of dignity, or unworthyness, can be different from yours or from someone third, and it seems to me that according to our criminal law, it should specify exactly what actions are worthy or unworthy of a president or a member of the board of directors of the agency. Same thing Article 11. Conditions for the Director of the Agency and Article 13 for Assistant Directors cannot remain only in the Statute at least in some... It must be settled in the law as we had it and in all other laws in these formal matters is otherwise the Law on Institutions completely enough for us, we do not need a special law as such. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And Article 21, I warn of a very bad practice from the Ministry of Science, something that is legally permissible, but it seems to me to be beyond the right, good legal standards and good legal practice. By adopting one sentence in the transitional provisions of this law, we amend 3 other laws i.e. 2. I'm saying, if it's possible and it's simply messy and impeccable, so if this law requires some other two laws to be amended, then the package needs to make changes and these other laws in the procedure that we simply have a trend of these changes because as I said we're a little bit lost in what we want to do, so our priorities change several times a year, and then we're passing laws, so we're changing them in other laws, no one can take hold of the head or tail as in fact our fundamental laws that regulate education actually seem in some way. Here I hope this debate may raise some awareness of a problem we haven't talked about enough. In some ways, it can also serve as a good argument to both the Ministry and the Government that the real problem we have is solved, not to solve it in a way that will generate many more new problems, which this law is and therefore will not get my support in the first reading, but with the hope that all this I and my colleagues have said so far in the debate will still be, if nothing else is well considered and then explained in the final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39664	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39665	Dear Vice President, State Secretary. So here, or every law needs to ask one of the key questions especially at this time when we have a problem with the state budget and we're going to have a problem with the state budget, or we're going to have to turn each kuna at least 2, 3 times before we decide where to invest it, what's the objective of the law? We have a score here, we have issues that are being settled, we have consequences that will be achieved by passing laws, and we have some kind of minimal savings. The consequences that will be achieved by the adoption of this law, you say, will be combined by two agencies, so we will not have two, but we will have one, and there will be some reduction in the costs necessary for the visibility of work and existing capacities and methodologies to speed up the benefits. So that's the consequences that will be. But these agencies weren't designed to burn. These agencies are set up to raise the level of competence of the state because the Agency for adult education has no goal but its only goal is to raise the qualification structure of our population by at least one degree. Which means that those who don't have a primary school, finish primary school. Those who have completed school and have no interest in enabling them to get a job. Those of you who have some sort of interest in pushing them to move on in education. This is the task of the Agency for Adult Education. Of course, it will not do that but must verify the programs, or encourage them to verify and find those who will implement them. Which means, not that it needs to be sparring, but that it needs to be invested, because every kuna it will invest in adult education in the future will return to the Republic of Croatia and to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Investment in education is a kind of savings, a kind of life insurance of the nation, since it is later returned when the process of education is completed people gain a greater chance of hiring, and when they are employed with a higher level of knowledge and skills or competence, then it is likely that they will also earn higher income, i.e. to earn more money for themselves, their family but of course for society. So if we go to this kind of measure then I'd like to do another reading if we had both a goal or such a consequence where we say look at it in 2 or 3 years, 2 years as far as we're doing adult education agency, we did it, that, that and that. So many programs, so many people we've been through, so many institutions have been involved, and now we're going to connect it to the Professional Education Agency, where I share the dilemmas as well as my colleagues whether it's natural to connect and whether it's natural to connect something that deals with the education of young people, so it's also children. Because vocational education goes from a graduate primary school, and grown-ups in this I think are considered persons over 15 or 16, 15 years old. So here we go and step back as far as age is concerned. And let's see what's going to be the result, or what's going to be the result of what we put together here. What's our goal? Is the goal of having double the amount of certified adult education programs in a year? Is our goal in a year's time to double the places where adult education will be offered? Is our goal, I suggest you delete this last item and you burn 430 thousand kunas, I suggest you put on, that for the next year you will seek an additional 5 million kuna for adult education, because in this way we will encourage people to go to education. Because in this recession, citizens won't have the money to pay for educational programs themselves. Items have also been reduced in the Croatian Employment Service where the open schools, agencies and educational institutions are overlapping for a well-known employer. So there's been a decrease in the number of those who are being educated. We have no better investment than to invest in adult education next year, and that those who have a job or who have lost their jobs, so they are, are going to the Employment Service, to keep them at work temperature, simply to give them new knowledge or new competence with which to increase their chances of employment. If we throw them at the Employment Service, we give them a small fee with which they will barely survive, and it is not to expect them to go into some adult education programme to retrain or acquire some new knowledge. So here we have to say no that we need to do this, we need to do this on some items, I'll tell you which ones. But you need to provide 10 times the money next year for adult education. Just as more money needs to be provided for education vocational education in high schools, because we need to equip our vocational high school with new devices, new appliances, because they can't be educated at what was 20 years ago. The professions have changed significantly from 20 years to today. Can't an operator on a computer or an electrician work on wires from 20 years ago. Today is a very different day. Can't a mechanic go to school in a professional school on something, at a workshop 30 years or 20 years ago. So we have to provide money here and in the next budget to increase this item, because it is an investment in the future of this country. We have a problem with the number of higher educations. We have a special problem with the number of highly educated in the structure of a working-active population. But those who create a new extra value. But we also have a huge problem in the structure of the unemployed. More than half of the unemployed have not completed primary school or have no occupation. And if we want them or if we count on them to get them back into work or get a chance to work, then we have to give them a chance to gain new knowledge of it. So, I'd like to ask until the second reading if you can, and you've set yourself the goal of what's going to be the effect of that agency. Not only will they sting on paper and commercials in the National Journal, but what will be the effect of their work. We have to set a goal otherwise what do we want in education? How much do we want to increase the average education of the nation, how much do we want the whole story to change in education? Now at the savings, you could have made some other savings, because for example for promotion and information services these two agencies will spend 109,000 kuna by the end of the year. Well, for materials and other material costs, that's what you said. But for rents and rents, these two agencies will spend a million kunas by the end of the year. One million kuna and it rents space and halls for seminars and training directors and for fees for renting a business space and renting a competition hall. So it could be saved, and then it could be invested in the programmes. The experience of Western European countries is that 30.30.30 is, therefore, 30% gives tuition to the state, 30% local self-government, and 30% invests in an individual who wants to get a new qualification. I'll tell you the experience of the city I come from. We were the first to go into adult education. So far, a thousand and 300 people have gone through the project. It is one quarter of the total number of people who graduates from primary school in Croatia. In a Koprivnica that has 33,000 inhabitants. The vast majority of them who graduated from primary school as adults continued some of the programs to gain some first interest. Those who have continued to be educated to gain a job, the vast majority of them have been given a job opportunity. Our Open School has 42 certified programs at this time, and the 42 certified programs pass more than 400 adults annually to acquire some new knowledge of a qualification or to retrain. 90% of them, after they finish that education program, get a chance at work. So, from the personal experience of the city I run, I'm telling you that it's really the best investment. And then you have to have a purpose and a goal, we have to have a goal which will be the final result. No savings of $400,000. And the story about the vocational education of high school students, so regular vocational education is something else, and I don't think it's a happy merger of what seems to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39666	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Agent Antun Mance.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39667	So here's listening to distinguished colleagues on the right, I get the impression that a few of us who worked in these programs have somehow been experienced for 20 years and over, and who knows the adult education system for maybe 30 or more years from those historic moments, because that's where the railroad started because she didn't have her own school, so here turns out to be a flaw. Because that's where theories are about how it can't be combined. So now my colleague Mršić finally said that it must not be combined. You're not exactly right, colleague, as far as the profession is concerned. You're wrong about saving. Savings can be achieved to carry out the right professional orientation so that there are thousands and thousands of people. The one who graduates from vocational school, let him have lifelong education, keep on perfecting and learning in that profession, and the one who doesn't have it is the problem. And that's why it has to be connected. It's my opinion and opinion probably of us who did this job, that it needs to be connected and that it needs to connect secondary education and adult education, that you're just dealing with what you've stated and that it's happening in school centres. I'm not very fond of these universities, but of schools, because they have both theoretical and practical conditions to do so properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39668	Five-minute debate, SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39669	Thank you. My fellow representative, I certainly invite you to try to enter the adult education system as a highly educated person once we pass this law. As far as this law is concerned, the creation of this mega agency we're talking about at the club right now in the field of education this really is an anti-natural fornication. You connect incompatibly and you will close the doors of many who will want to be educated later when, say, they even graduate from college, their doors are closed. Save where you can't save. In the midst of the European country's crisis, they give more to science and education to the dear God. And finally, from education as a "tool" for the progress of the state you create this agency that will be a stumbling block and a problem that will have to be solved again in the future. This is a big mistake you're doing, an expensive mistake, and that's why the SDP club doesn't support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39670	Final Review State Secretary Željir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39671	Thank you very much. I don't know if you're getting ready when you're talking this hard on this subject. I'll remind you that we've passed a lot of laws in very high agreement almost unanimously. So I'm going to remind you first, so I'm thinking about all the MPs in the High House. First, I'm going to remind you of the Law on the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education when only five MPs were actually abstentioned. Allow me, my assessment was that they would have been for if they hadn't been close to the presidential election, etc. So all the suggestions you've had, going towards improving the text, towards improving the solution, we've then accepted them and passed such a law. And you can testify to that. Likewise, when we passed the Law on Professional Education many proposals, excellent proposals and amendments, we agreed on everything and also on a very high number of votes that were then present. All the laws I talked about on behalf of the promoter were therefore tried to be in the regular procedure and said that they were maximum open to all solutions and we are also now. And when we are respected, Mršić, prepare a second reading and, of course, not only will we read the phonograms from this session, but also with some of you who want to talk about different solutions and prepare another reading. So, I don't see any reason for us to perform like this, Mr. Mondekar. Of course you can, and no one can stop you, it doesn't occur to me that I speak that way, but I would pray when we mention some facts that we are accurate, so when you say about the Agency for Adult Education, you say she's changed five directors. No, three. And you said five so categorically. That's not true. Furthermore, let's let when we talk about all these programs you say that we're going to question them, that we're going to do them, that it's not going to happen anymore, so that's not true. We can talk about something and I think they hit the core in that part, I'm not talking about the other parts now, MP Kunst and representative Mršić, so let me just refer to that part. When we talk about a relationship with the economy, and it's actually very important for the economy, then we want more engagement, both economics and local communities, which you specifically spoke about, Mr. Mrsic. So, we in the law do not forget adult education we have said tripartite funding as it is in other countries that you also mentioned, and that possibility is open. Unfortunately, we know few great examples where this is happening, where the mayor wants to strengthen the economy as well as his job, the right to call on the businessmen and ask them what programs you are doing, what interests you need in the Employment Service are not and can't be because they don't exist in formal education to try to go with these programs and to have the staff you need. I was in one city not to advertise anyone, in one city where we attended the division of their certificates that one program of cartoons had ended in AutoCAD because it needed an economy and it was not in the formal part. And they all got work contracts like you mentioned. So that's a great example. Who financed it? He funded the city and the Employment Service. Unfortunately, the economy doesn't. And when we talk about tripartite financing, then it should be a state, whether it's going to be a employment office, whether it's going to be an agency, whatever, but from the position of the state. It would not be bad for the local community to encourage its economy in this way, and, of course, it would be good to be an employer interested in raising the competences of its employees rather than being a user. So, so I'm the user doesn't have to give because his employer is directly interested in making productivity bigger. So that's what we're expecting. So these discussions are really precious, they're really great because we're actually sending a message to our economies that we expect them to set themselves up and, in cooperation with the local community and with the state, to get to what they don't have at this point. Only when we do so will we be able to talk about progress, then we will be able to talk about very concretely encouraging the economy to be stronger. So I'm sure that's how it's gonna be. When you speak to your esteemed Mr. Mayor Koprivnica, when you speak in the jargon to describe. I'll fix you. It's not one quarter of you, it's one-sixth, that number is still higher at country level. So, great, great. All those who have completed their primary education are open options, the state pays everything and you don't have to do anything. This is the project by 2013. But thank you so much for detecting who they are and animate them and bringing them into the system, because you know it's hard to get into the bench at 40 and finish fifth grade. And therefore such engagement is indeed precious to you in the local environments. This is what we expect and, of course, when it's finished, it's going to get conditions for one, training for simple occupation, so it's going to handle some kind of construction machine like I mentioned earlier and have its bread, so it has its own qualification that's being enrolled in the library. So that's what we're expecting. I am convinced that we will base these discussions, and I will also ask you all that we contact to consider all of this in the preparation of the second reading, to try to work out the best possible way and that we have valid solutions. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39672	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39673	We move to the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education. It was the first reading, P.Z. Number 438. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: first, the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults and second all objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find the conclusion accepted by most votes, 67 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 25 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39674	Let us go to the next point - Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the President-in-Office so far, the Vice-President and part of the members and the appointment of a new president, the Vice-President and the part of the members of the Council of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency is the Proposing Government which proposed this decision on the basis of Article 8. The law on electronic media. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Drazen Breglec will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39675	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. We are ahead of us with a decision on the resolution of the president so far, the deputy president and part of the members and the appointment of a new president, vice president and part of the members of the Council of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency. In particular, the replacement is carried out in, two members will be replaced by an Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications. It is set out in the Law on Electronic Communications, which states that the Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications is managed by the Council which makes up seven members, and that the President, the Vice-President and the Members shall appoint or resolve the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of an earlier public call made. A public call was issued this year on the basis of 33 candidates' application. In July of this year, the government set out a proposal sent to the Croatian Parliament for adoption. Allow me to complete and take advantage of this opportunity and highlight several of the most important indicators that have taken place in the past four years in the field of electronic communications during the conclusion of one phase in the liberalisation of electronic communications. So this extremely important body regulates an economic area that generates an annual total turnover of around 18 billion kuna. We can say that when we make an amendment, i.e. you can see from the proposal to extend the confidence of four members of the Croatian Post and Telecommunications Agency, we can freely present the assessment that they have not only done well but have done their job excellently, I would say my historic task, manage to liberalise the area of electronic communications in the most part, while achieving extremely visible concrete results quantifiable by very specific figures. I'll take some out here. In those four years, the average prices in mobile communications for small users are almost halved. The average price for the average user was reduced by almost 40% and for large users by 28%. So the results are more than visible. Here we're talking about a market that's worth 15 billion kuna, when we're talking only about telecommunications and which, with that drop, the price has been growing all this time. So the industry was making bigger and more traffic and solid profits. Therefore, a win-win situation in the field of electronic communications has been achieved. We also hope that a similar scenario will follow in the results and in the area of fixed networks as I have just read in mobile networks, as well as in the regulation of the postal market. Finally, the competences of the Croatian Electronic Communications Agency have also been confirmed in this High House when submitting their report, and have been confirmed by the fact that Chapter 10. – Information society and media successfully temporarily closed in December last year. This is also the reason why four members of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency, president, deputy and two members, are practically named once again with a small difference that the president, Mr Gacina, becomes vice president in the new term, making Mr Krvisik the president of the Post and Electronic Communications Agency. For all further questions, of course, we are available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39676	Thank you. Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, Chairman of the Committee Mr Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39677	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament at the 34th session discussed the proposal for a decision on the resolution of the President-in-Office, Vice-President and part of the members, as well as the appointment of a new President, Vice-President and part of the members of the Council of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency, as a home working body. The opening presentation was given by a representative of the promoter who said that the entry into force of the Law on Electronic Communications Croatian Telecommunications Agency was transformed into a Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency, which is also a legal follower of the Post Office Council. It has been pointed out that the President, the Vice-President and part of the members of the Council have expired their term of office and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has set out at the session held on 11 July 2009 a proposal for a decision on both the resolution and the appointment and procedure for a public call for new members, presidents, deputies and members. Without discussion, the Committee proposed to the Croatian Parliament to decide on the resolution of the President-in-Office, Vice-President, part of the members, and the appointment of a new president, vice-president and part of the members of the Council of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39678	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives, Mr. Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39679	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues. Since the president, deputy president and members of this agency, the Agency for Mail, electronic communications is appointed by the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Croatian Government, it shows itself the importance and importance of this agency. Since these members are appointed at the time of two separate agencies, the Croatian Telecommunications Agency and the Post Office Council, with a special provision, continued their mandate to join the two in one agency. According to the law, the Croatian government has issued a public call for the end of the term of office to resolve these members and is proposing to the Croatian Assembly the appointment of the same persons. Four people are resolved and four of the same persons are named. It's nice to meet you. I wish there were in practice, in life often. That means those people were doing well. It has not even been heard that something has been politicized, and therefore, although some roles have been mixed with the president here, the deputy is less important not only, so because the résumé shows that they are competent persons, but from their work so far, the competence on paper has been proven. And I think they therefore deserve the re-nomination of this High House and the HDZ Club will certainly support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39680	Thank you. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39681	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. The simple decision that we're proposing actually implies a few interesting conclusions. First, that 33 people participated in the public competition and that none other than those already inside had met the conditions. The second that this is about a ringishpil variant where actually within a closed circle people only change on duty, because if exactly what Mr. Secretary of State Breglec says is that the board of agencies led by President Gachin and Vice President Bencic achieved extraordinary results, then I don't know why they are being replaced. In fact, the roles are changing now, so Mr. Krvisik comes to the post, Mr. Gachina goes one degree lower and it is expected that in the next term the director will be Mr. Juraj Mužina, and that Mr. Krvisek will be his deputy. Because it's obviously a rule now. If the pleasure is complete and if Mr. Gachina didn't mind staying in full capacity, I don't see the reason why it was now a roschada, except to create an impression that the structure is being renewed, and it's actually the exact same people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39682	Thank you. State Secretary Drazen Breglec's closing statement, final review.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39683	I thank you for the debate and I will try to give an answer and a logical explanation, but first I must say that it was a public invitation to a public tender, that most candidates met the conditions. It's not true that none of them were satisfied. However, out of the large number of candidates who met the conditions, it was still necessary to choose four, so the president, the vice president and two members who would receive five-year trust, lead and regulate the postal and electronic communications market in the next period. Therefore, the existing four people who, in some ways, are not being appointed in a new mandate for the nuances of changed roles. It's very obvious from the proposal of this decision. Just the other way around. Thanks to the excellent results achieved by the agency over the past period, I could almost say for this reason, because it had to lead from a very inefficient market situation to an effective electronic communications market match from the market situation. So, precisely because of these successes, four members in somewhat modified roles were given a mandate, a new five-year term. In particular, the emphasis in the next period will, in line with the strategy of switching from analogue to digital broadcasting, be on this area, in the field of radio communication, in the area of the introduction of digital technology, and Mr Krvisek is the most, just specialised and biggest expert and in relation to his colleagues in the agency as well as all reported. Since this is an important process that the transition strategy defined that should be completed in the next year and a half, it was also the tab that implied that precisely because of this important process and this small change was carried out at the head. Indeed, by content and by work, we can say that the agency hope that it will continue to do an excellent job. It makes decisions for itself, so all members, all seven of the majority of the votes, that is, in most cases, it has been unanimous so far, so that this change, apart from putting into service the agency's councils to the outside and other duties that the president has essentially is not a change of policy either to the state or to the Agency for Electronic Communications and Mail itself. Here, I hope I've managed to satisfy the argument and answer all the questions. And I believe in the support of the Parliament of these motions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39684	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39685	Third, Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the President-in-Office so far, the Vice-President and the President-in-Office and part of the members and appointment of the new President, the Vice-President and part of the members of the Council of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting in favour of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the President, the Vice-President and part of the members of the Council of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency. Let's please get involved and vote on the motion for resolution. The result? The motion for a decision was accepted by most votes, 94 votes in favour, 2 abstentions, nothing against, in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39686	We move to the next point - Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the navigation of waterways of internal waters and their marking and maintenance, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 410 The legislator is the Government. The debate, amendments can be submitted until the end of the debate conducted by the Committee on Law, Maritime Transport and Links and the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Ivica Peravic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39687	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Government of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with Article 139 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and Articles 16 and 18. The law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts proposes to launch before the Croatian Parliament the procedure for the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the navigation of waterways and their marking and maintenance by emergency procedure, signed in Zagreb on 20 February 2004. The basis for an emergency procedure is set out in Article 159(1). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In view of the fact that the internal legal procedure for entering into force of the contract has been completed in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is considered that there is an interest and that the Republic of Croatia ends the necessary procedure to bring the contract into force. A cited law whose provisions will enter into the legal order of the Republic of Croatia will confirm an international contract, aimed at improving both international and interstate transport on internal waterways and creating conditions on the principle of equality and reciprocity for smooth navigation, marking and maintaining and transporting persons and things on internal waterways, stressing the importance of navigation that has economic and natural environmental advantages compared to other aspects of domestic transport. The contract regulates the relations of the Contracting Parties related to the navigation of the Sava, Kupa, Une, Vrbasa, Bosnia, Danube and Drava waterways within the limits of their airworthiness and the marking and maintenance of the Sava and Una waterways within the established class. The contract in question shall not affect the rights and obligations laid down by other international contracts which are in force for the parties to the contract. The provisions of the contract, as well as its application, do not affect the identification and labelling of international ones, I apologize to the inter-state borders between the parties. The contract shall be applied temporarily from the day of the denunciation. In accordance with the contract in question, two parties established an interstate commission to apply and monitor the implementation of that contract. The documents of the Rules of Procedure on how to work the Interstate Commission, the Regulation on the way of marking the Sava and Une waterway, are adopted, and it is in preparation for the adoption of the Technical Maintenance Regulations. The Interstate Commission set up expert groups for the adoption of labelling plans in the Sava and Une waterway marking system, ad hoc expert group for drawing up draft rules on technical maintenance of the Sava and Une waterway, and expert group for monitoring and coordination of the IPA 2008 project reconstruction and modernisation of the waterway on the Sava River from Racinovac to Sisak. The section for the adoption of labelling plans in the Sava and Une waterway marking system shall meet regularly, adopt proposals for plans, draft reports on their implementation and forward them to an inter-state commission convened each year by one of the Contracting Parties in their country for adoption. According to the Regulation on the way of marking the Sava and Una waterway, Bosnia and Herzegovina through the Ministry of Communications and Transport, performs the tasks of marking the Sava river for sailing between the river mileage of 210 and 343, i.e. from Racinovac to Oprisavac, 132.2 kilometers long. And on the Una River from river mile five to 15, 10 kilometers long on both shores. The Republic of Croatia, through the Waterway Agency, performs the activities of marking the Sava river waterway for sailing between the river 343 and 515, from the Orisavac to Jasenovac, in the length of 172 kilometers. And on the Una River from a river mile zero to a mile [5 km] to a length of 5 kilometers [5 km] on both shores. By the time the contract was signed, the system of markings on the left was restored, i.e. The Croatian coast on the part in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia, and on the same section, the watermarks marked both the left and right edges of the waterway. After the signing of the contract, data on the demining of coastal sites were exchanged, technical implementation documentation was drawn up for the restoration of the system on the right of BiH coast, in shares in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia, and technical implementation documentation for the restoration of the system on both coasts in Bosnia and Herzegovina's jurisdiction. Both shares are under way to rebuild the system on the ground. The BiH side plans, as well as the Croatian side, to complete the reconstruction work by the end of 2009. The cost of marking, which includes the renewal and maintenance of the system carried out by the Contracting Party, each for the part of the waterway which marks. The Ad hoc section for drawing up draft rules on the technical maintenance of the Sava and Une waterway is at the end of the work, and will forward the Regulation to the interstate commission for adoption. The IPA 2008 project supervisory and coordination expert group rebuilding and modernising the waterway on the Sava River from Racinovac to Sisak has continued to work, and professional cooperation has been made possible in order to develop an environmental impact study and the process of taking place of the local authorisation. Implementation of the IPA 2008 project rebuilding and modernising the waterway on the Sava River from Racinovac to Sisak, which includes all the necessary activities until the construction permit is issued, will create conditions for the work of the waterway arrangements on the requested quarter, i.e. international class. Since no technical maintenance rules have yet been adopted, the maintenance of the waterway shall be carried out independently in the area of each country with limited professional consent. After the adoption of the Regulation, the conditions for coordinated technical maintenance will be established which will significantly improve the conditions of navigation within the course of the existing class. Since the establishment of an interstate commission in 2007 the cost of marking Croatia is 2 million and 900 thousand kuna per year, and for the work of technical maintenance, and studies and projects was spent on average 5 million kuna per year. The implementation of the quoted Act will have a financial impact on the state budget of the Republic of Croatia in the coming years, and in 2009 the Republic of Croatia has ensured at the budgetary position of K810001 construction and technical maintenance of the waterways of the internal waters and P1547 construction and technical maintenance of the waterways of the internal waters, 003 navigation security, budgetary means for the implementation of this contract and the tasks arising from that contract will be carried out by the waterway agency. Here's how much I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39688	Thank you. One meeting of the Environment Protection Committee will be held at 13:30 in the Ivan Kukuljevic Hall. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the word, legislation, seafaring, traffic and connections? I'm opening a debate. HNS representative club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39689	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This Law will confirm an international contract aimed at improving international and interstate transport on inland waterways in order to create conditions on the principle of equality and reciprocity on uninterrupted navigation, marking and maintenance and transport of persons and things on internal waterways. The contract was signed in Zagreb on 20 February 2004 and is provisionally applicable from the date of signature. Under this Treaty, the Republic of Croatia has provided budgetary resources for the construction and technical maintenance of the waterways of internal waters. I will not further elaborate on the fundamental issues which will be settled under the proposal of this Act because the Secretary of State has very comprehensively talked about all the objectives that will be achieved by this Bill's proposal on finance, too, but I will say that the representatives of the HNS Club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39690	Thank you very much. HDZ representative club Mr. Dragan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39691	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed secretary of state, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDZ Club will support the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the navigation of waterways and their marking and maintenance by emergency procedure. The adoption of the law in question will confirm an international contract whose provisions will thus become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia, with the aim of improving international and inter-state transport and create conditions for smooth navigation, marking and maintaining and transporting persons and things on the internal waterways of the two countries on the principle of equality and reciprocity, stressing at the same time the importance of navigation, which compares with other aspects of internal transport, not only economic but also environmental advantages. It is worth noting, however, that no provision of a contract or its application affects the identification and designation of inter-state borders between the Contracting Parties. The Treaty lays down the relations of the Contracting Parties related to the navigation of the Sava, Kupa, Une, Vrbasa, Bosnia, Bosnia and Herzegovina in the borders of their fleet, as well as the marking and maintenance of the Sava River waterways, and the Une in the established class, and allows for the establishment of activities concerning the implementation of the projects of the waterway part of the Sava River, in the border area of the Republic of Croatia with Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to ensure the safety of navigation and environmental protection. They will meet minimum airworthiness requirements that need to be met in order to make navigation more marketable to contribute to the development of economic growth through the realisation of trade relations. Here I would add that until the signing of the contract the system of marks was restored on the Croatian coast on the part in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia and on the same part was marked by the watermarks both left and right... waterway. Following the signing of the contract in February 2004, data on the demining of the locations of the markings carried out were exchanged, also the technical implementation documentation for the renewal of the system on the Bosnia and Herzegovina coast on the part in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia and the technical implementation documentation for the restoration of the system on both coasts on the part in the jurisdiction of Bosnia and Herzegovina. How to comply with Article 40 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European The contract applied provisionally from the date of signature, the parties established an inter-state commission in 2007 to apply and monitor the implementation of that contract. I would like to stress that, in the meantime, the Rules of Procedure on how to work the Interstate Commission, the Regulation on how to mark the Sava and Une waterway, then the plans to place the markings in the labelling system, and the adoption of the rules on difficult maintenance is in place. For this reason, the maintenance of the waterway is carried out independently in the area of each country, with restrictions on professional training. After the adoption of the Regulation, the conditions for coordinated technical maintenance will be established which will significantly improve the conditions of navigation within the existing class. Following the above, I would like to point out that the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39692	Thank you. For the HDSSB Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39693	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. Here I can immediately say from the beginning that the HDSSB supports this proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the navigation of the waterways of internal waters and their marking and maintenance with the Final Bill. In fact, we witnessed a recent newspaper article in which a German ship tried to enter the Sava River in, to say, according to Slavonia and Sisak, but it was stopped in County because the waterway was not further away, so it was not possible to sail further. They were warned that they couldn't go any further, even though they wanted to see Slavonski Brod and other places along the Sava River and here's our Slavonia, so he came back from the Parish to the Danube and further to the Black Sea. I don't know how long this situation will last, but I know there was an agreement before this law with Bosnia and Herzegovina in '98. year, so I wonder how much of this 10, 11-year-old deal was made about the wateriness of the Sava River? We are witnesses, especially in Slavonia and Baranja, to build the port "ship" with a snail's step, and I am very sure that the port "Brcko" has greatly advanced and that the current port with the largest number of gross volumes of cargo on the Sava River is now a port. I also received information that Bosnia and Herzegovina was negotiating with Hungary to influence or lobby, so the Danube-Sava channel would end up at Brcko. So, one short share rather than what is envisaged or what is planned in some kind of futuristic notions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, this is the legal framework for the regulation of navigation and these funds that are provided for from 9 million and 100 thousand kunas listed in these materials for 2009 can be asked freely by the Secretary of State whether it is enough to equip the waterway along the Sava and Uno do, I don't know he said 5 kilometers here, it writes 15 kilometers, it can be freely said which place on the Uni River, is this Ustica, is that Tanac, is that Dubica, so let's know, is that Kostanica Croatia? I don't know exactly. So when the Government of the Republic of Croatia signs such a contract then all segments of Croatian transport policy should be harmonised. We're building, or I'm saying in a snail step I'm saying that there's a boat port being built, the resources are being allocated to the drop, unlike some ports at sea where it's not a problem to single out 200 million euros, without problems for example. The Galjenica in Zadar. So, the port "ship" is built with a snail step, and the integrated railway, railway station or the transport station is located and therefore the HZ is planned in Spačva. So I wonder if there's a chance that the government itself can agree, or the Ministry of Transport, where is the need for an integrated overload? Is it in the port of "ship" which already has a track track towards the track, according to the ten rail corridor or somewhere in the forest in Spačva? And that's because, let me say, politics, political influence and lobbying have dragged such a freight train station where it was stronger in lobbying. So she went to Vukovar-Srijem County. These materials say that the contract determines the relations of contract parties related to the navigation of the Sava River and Kupa waterways, i.e. the Sisak of those 500 meters, Vrbasa, Bosnia, Danube and Drava. As far as I know, Bosnia and Herzegovina has no contact with the Danube River, it is a border river between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, there is no mention of the Neretva River or does it not belong to a river that connects two states? So I'm going to beg after the Secretary of State to explain to me why Neretva is not covered by this contract. Therefore, it is also about marking and maintaining the waterways of the Sava and Una River. So, Sava from Racinovac upstream to Jasenovac, that is, to the mouth of the Una in Sava, and then further up the Unom upstream to about a few kilometers. This proposal is also mentioned in Article 6. Cross-border navigation of the decks, ferrys and the like on interstate waterways, with prior approval or implementation of the school crossing procedure in accordance with the applicable national rules and international contracts between the Contracting Parties. I remind Mr. Secretary of State that there is a great need for this particular type of vessel in the area of Brod-Posavina County and ask that this issue be updated for traffic between the small-border or whatever between Slavonski Kobaš and the Bosnian Kobaš. Mostly because a large number of Slavonski Kobaša citizens have, I say, cadastrian grants on the other coast. now in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is interesting, at least in my view, Article 26 of this Treaty, in which I may single out only one to cut short, that the machinery and other means of work intended for the marking and maintenance of the waterway, which are transferred from the territory of one Contracting Party to the territory of the other Contracting Party, are exempt from all import and export duties and are not subject to import or export restrictions. We are witnesses today that, therefore, in a criminal way is exploited, it is also called the mineral wealth of the Sava River, which is gravel and sand. Without any kind of restrictions I'd almost say without any inspections on one side or the other, we have examples like this. If it comes to this, is it really possible to provide certain doubts about the possibility of certain abuses if machines working on marking and deepening and other Sava rivers are not subject to any customs and other regulations, in fact whether it is the retention of the status quo, which currently exists on the Sava River, and everyone knows well both persons and legal and physical who illegally exploited gravel and sand on the Sava River. In accordance with Article 24 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Union and its Member States are bound by the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union, and are bound by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and are bound by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and are bound by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as amended by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and are bound by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and are bound by the Treaty on the I wonder if it's meant to be in the same proportion? Therefore, funding in equal proportion or each side has its own price and whether it will be interstate commission, commission or whatever it is called, eventually interstate commission. Will the interstate commission determine the amount of costs and financial resources to carry out, maintain and mark the waterway referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article? Here's a question for the secretary of state, so I hope to get some answers. Therefore, in Article 40 of the final article of the Treaty Confirmation Act, the Protocol on the establishment of navigation on the inland waterways of the Sava River and its tributaries is hereby terminated between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was concluded or signed on 16 October 1998. So I wonder if that protocol, which was then signed, and I witness every day in Slavonski Brod that, apart from the patrol boats of the border police, almost nothing else sails along the Sava River and these explosives of gravel and sand, the other one was seen on Savi. Thus, the protocol did not bring anything about the establishment of a waterway along the Sava River, which would certainly contribute to both economic and environmental aspects of Slavonia and Croatia clearly as a whole. When I say almost all of us agree, I am convinced that no one will have any particular objections to sign and confirm such a contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the navigation of the Sava River, Uno and other rivers that I do not list them, then I wonder why the Republic of Croatia, in the same way voluntarily between the two states, cannot talk or arrange for the signing of a contract or an ecology agreement which would not have the refinery in the Bosnian Ship poisoned and polluting the Slavonian Ship, but also the citizens of the Bosnian Ship, therefore neither are they excluded from it? It's simply this problem, this ecological problem, and even here it's mentioned ecologically, it's impossible to achieve. Or are there other interests that then prevent the problem of air pollution or air quality in Slavonski Brod and the County of Brod-Posavia from being solved between the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia and by the refinery polluters in the Bosnian Ship? The HDSB will be for signing, it will raise its hand to sign this treaty approval bill, but here are some notes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39694	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39695	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Given the nature of these contracts, therefore this means that we cannot, in fact, change the provisions of this Treaty, I will talk very briefly about this contract, that is, the law that we hope to adopt today, or support. And I think that this agreement is very important for both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. Not only because of the regulation of this very important issue in terms of the wateriness of these rivers, some of which are the cleanest in Europe, but also because of the consequences that will result, and they are primarily of economic nature, as well as the safety of navigation in general in this area. So this contract is not only a contribution to improving and connecting and communicating this country and improving economic co-operation, primarily trade, and then economically as a consequence, it is in its own way one, I would say public health, i.e. from public health interests for both Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, my support for this treaty, i.e. this bill, because in fact standardising this authority and regulating this authority is in a certain way a contribution to the safety of the fleet of these rivers, I repeat, among which are some of the cleanest European rivers, regardless of whether they are in Bosnia and Herzegovina or in Croatia at this time. My one little remark. In a conversation with counterpart Grbic, he simply says it is an international term. It bothers me with this expression of malice, although it is probably taken as such in international terminology. Wouldn't it be nicer if it were called, I don't know, an accident on board or I don't know how? So he tends to Croatian expressions and therefore took one small remark of my own, so to speak. Certainly my support for this bill, that is, this contract, because it is also the support of good neighbourly relations between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the interest of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croats on both sides of the border. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39696	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39697	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the thing about this law, it's been said a lot. I'll look back on the Sava River waterway. Namely, Croatian inland waterways, this sketch shows how important it is from Brcko to Sisak when we know that today and in that explanation, it is said that it is all the second and third categories and that international navigation should be dealt with in order to help the economy both Croatia and this part of the Bosnian side. We know what the Sava River was before the Homeland War and we know what the Sava River was during the Homeland work. In fact, the largest part of the waterway was fought by fierce battles on that part, so that it was quite polluted, that it was abandoned during the Homeland War and after the Homeland War that it was not done, enough means that it had not been secured from both sides, so that this law except that it would solve the marking and what is even more important is the maintenance of this waterway solved and the problem of lagging explosive devices in that part, the arrangement of the school crossings which were in no way forgotten because we know very well that bridges can be destroyed not only in aggression or in war circumstances but also in fact can be elemental accidents and we know that the Skeleski crossing of the Županje with Oraj were kept alive by more than 60 thousand inhabitants there and then on Odzak, and then brought together two ships or two states of Bosnia and Slavonski Brod. Therefore, the great benefit of this law when the law is put into effect, when the Sava River waterway is arranged from Sisak to Brcko and to the port of Slavonski Brod, respectively, for the economy on both sides of the coast. Here, I wanted to say so much that the Sava River is one of the vessels of housewives for the development of the economy of the three Croatian counties of Sisak-Moslavina, Brod-Posaviska, Vukovar-Srijemska, but also Posaviska in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this worse part towards Banja Luka. I certainly support that part, I'd just like it to be 4C corridor for a year, two days here, so a waterway that can sail international traffic, and not that it happens to us as we now have on the Sava River that year only when the great rainfalls so the waterway grows then it can sail, the rest just sail smaller boats and not freight transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39698	Thank you. Final review by State Secretary Ivica Perovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39699	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed MPs and MPs. I would like to thank you for this debate on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, for supporting this bill with, of course, certain clarifications that have been made in the debate itself. What I said in this part of the opening argument did not say that 9 million kuna is not enough of course what Mr Grubisic mentioned in order to have the wateriness of the Sava River in this part, but I mentioned that for the implementation of this law means years to date and for next year this amount of funds will be needed. As far as this is concerned, of course, a legal framework which will improve the cooperation between the Republic of Croatia in terms of marking and airworthiness itself, means not only on the Sava River but also on those rivers which are part of this Agreement. As for the issues of certain ports, I am not going to enter the debate today, but here is a representative to be delivered to Grubisic the answer to these questions in which the stage means the question of both Luka, and Brod, and Spačva. As far as Article 6 is concerned, it is a specific method of transition, and it had to be regulated through this law as you know that all of you who have been skating that it goes to the queen, or to that rope itself, and because of the fact that the issue itself has to be regulated and, of course, the issue of the skeleton is not only in the area of the Brod-Posavina County and in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County and part of Zagreb County, one of the important issues. As far as Article 24 is concerned, of course the funding ratio will be regulated by the interstate commission. And maybe just at the end of the ecologicals. Ecology is mentioned in this part of the law only in terms of river traffic, that one vision and protection of the environment is, of course, as such and as such and in this sense, to be considered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39700	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39701	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the navigation of the waterways of internal waters and their marking and maintenance. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 410. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I give the vote: Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the navigation of waterways of internal waters and their marking and maintenance. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. The result? The final bill was accepted by most votes, 95 votes in favour and one abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39702	We're moving on to the next point. - Final draft law amending the Law on Public Roads, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 426 Amendments until the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. A representative of the motion State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Zdravko Livaković will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39703	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs. A few sentences about this. So in 2008, this House adopted the Law on concessions and the Law on Public Private Partnership in order to bring our legislation into line with EU rules. Furthermore, the Law on Public Roads, which provides for concessions on highways and certain facilities on state roads, must be brought into line with this legislation. And just to remind you, the current law before this amendment envisioned the possibility of giving concessions on highways and telling buildings on state roads in a way that up to 33 years ago, by the basis of a public tender and that amendment was awarded a few years ago by the Government and all over 33 years ago by the Croatian Parliament. These amendments, since the Law on Public Private Partnership has established the maximum time limit for 40 years, suggest that we comply with that law, so that concessions are given up to 40 years but that the government makes the decision. Here, that's the shortest part about these provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39704	Thank you. Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, Chairman of the Committee Mr Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39705	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament at the 34th session discussed the proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Roads as a parent working body. The opening statement was given by a representative of the applicant who said that the proposal for this law proposed compliance with the concession law and that harmonisation of the law is implemented in such a way that all provisions which are otherwise laid down in the provisions of the Law on concessions are deleted and only in the amendments to certain provisions of this law refer to the application of the Law on concessions. It was pointed out that, according to the concession law, the concession procedure was applied after 1 January 2009 and was the reason why the Law on Public Roads was brought into line with the earlier conclusions adopted. Without discussion, the Committee proposes the adoption of a Law amending the Law on Public Roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39706	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives, Mr Ivan Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39707	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Public Roads The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support fully. The process of harmonising Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union in 2008 adopted a new Law on concessions governing the concession procedure, the termination of concessions, legal protection and the award of concessions and the termination of concessions and the Law on public-private partnership. The proposal for a law amending the Law on Public Roads shall comply with the applicable Law on concessions. Remember, public roads are generally good and cannot acquire ownership rights or other real rights on any basis. The public road is entered in land books as a general good in accordance with rules governing land and book records. Public roads within the meaning of this law are roads that are classified according to their social, transport and economic meaning into one of the following four groups: highways, state roads, county roads and local roads. They are classified on the basis of the criteria adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and a public road classification act determining the highways of the state, county and local roads and their meaning to bring the minister responsible for transport and publish in the "National Journals". In order to be able to manage public roads, build and maintain them, planning documents need to be drawn up. Plans for building, maintaining and managing public roads are the Public Road Development Strategy. The Croatian Parliament adopts on a proposal from the Government a strategy that sets out the objectives and plans of public road development in the Republic of Croatia in line with the Strategy of Spatial Planning of the Republic of Croatia. The strategy contains an analysis of the state of highways, state, county and local roads and the need to develop them. Based on the criteria for building highways, state, county and local roads, as well as the proposed criteria for building highways and public roads, the need to maintain existing highways and state roads, the principles of maintenance of county and local roads, and the proposed criteria for the priorities of highway maintenance, state, county and local roads, the Government of the Republic of Croatia brings a programme of construction and maintenance of public roads for a four-year period in line with the strategy. Report on the achievement of the long-term objectives of road infrastructure development established by the public road development strategy and the implementation of public road construction and maintenance programmes The Government submits once a year to the Croatian Assembly. Priority in building and maintaining highways of state, county and local roads and the need for public road development established by a strategy must be based on spatial, transport, technical, ecological and demographic analyses with economically justified traffic and technical solutions to increase capacity security and traffic flow. Public road construction and reconstruction activities include construction and other design with investigative works, design of equipment accompanying objects of traffic signalling and other design, professional evaluation of studies and projects, purchase of land and buildings, transfer of municipal and other infrastructures, violation of works of construction, organisation of professional supervision and control of embedded materials of works, organisation of technical examination and promotion of public roads and the assignment of public roads and facilities to use and maintenance. The right to build and manage highways and certain roadways on the state road can be obtained by concession. It includes the right of economic use of highways or buildings on the state road, as well as the right to reconstruct and maintain highways and road facilities on the state road during the duration of the concession contract and/or the right to use road land in order to build accompanying service facilities and carry out the activities of catering, trade, fuel supply services, service services and the like. The same law does not allow concessions on the county and local roads. According to the earlier Law on concessions, the deadline on which the concession could be awarded was 99 years and Article 50 is valid. The Law on Public Roads prescribed that the Croatian Parliament would decide to grant concessions for highways or individual facilities on the state road if the concession was given at a time of 33 years and longer, and the Government, if the concession was on time to 33 years. The period on which the concession is granted is now limited to 40 years in accordance with the restriction of the Public Private Partnership Act. As the deadline for award of the concession is 40 years, it is proposed to authorise the Government of the Republic of Croatia to decide on the selection and award of concessions by the deadline prescribed. In order to award the concession, it is necessary to carry out preparatory actions for the award of concessions, which are carried out by the Ministry in accordance with the Law on concessions. The preparatory actions shall be considered to be a special assessment of the value of the concession, of the production of a eligibility and concession study, of the concession grantor, in particular of the public interest, of the impact on the environment, the protection of nature and cultural goods, the financial effects of the concession and the consistency of economic development, development plans and plans of the concession providers. Prior to the initiation of the concession procedure, the concession provider is obliged to appoint an expert concession commission from the lines of prominent experts in the field of law, economy, technical and other relevant professions depending on the subject of the concession. A member of the expert commission shall not have direct or indirect personal interests in any activity that would lead to the conflict of those interests with his duties in the work of the expert commission. And the tasks of the concession expert committee are to assist the concession provider in preparing the necessary analysis or study of the eligibility of the concession, in preparing and drawing up conditions and documentation for competition, rules and conditions for the assessment of the tenderers and the tenders received, and the selection criteria, analysis of the project proposal of the concession to determine whether the public-private partnership project is defined by the rules governing the public-private partnership. A review and evaluation of the tenders received, the establishment of a proposal for a decision to select the most favourable tenderer for the award of a concession or a proposal for a decision to repeal the concession procedure and the justification of those proposals, the notification of the competent national attorney-General for the purpose of granting a concession for the economic use of the general or other goods, and the conduct of other tasks necessary for the implementation of the concession procedure. The Expert Commission for concessions on its work shall keep a record signed by all members of the commission. In carrying out preparatory actions, the Ministry may entrust certain professional and technical services to the competent legal persons responsible for performing management, construction and maintenance of highways. After the tender and selection of the most favourable bidder with the same award contract is concluded, which determines the rights and obligations of the concessionor and concessionaires in accordance with the provisions of this law and the concession law. From 1995 to today, three concessions were awarded for the freeway and contracts for concessions that are still under way. For Istrian ipilon Bina Istria d.d. Pula in mixed French-Croatian property for highway A1 Zagreb – Bosiljevo and A6 Bosiljevo – Rijeka concessionary highway Rijeka – Zagreb d.d. owned by the Republic of Croatia and for highway A2 Zagreb – Macelj concessionary highway Zagreb – Macelj d.o.o. in mixed German-Croatian ownership. In order to open a tender for the award of concessions on public roads in the future, it is necessary, in accordance with the Law on concessions, to adopt this proposal. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community accepts the Proposal for a Law on amendments to the Law on Public Roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39708	Shall we continue, or? There's two more clubs. If this other club starts, then she won't be able to make it, then we'll go in for a while. Let's break it up then and we'll pick it up at 3:00. SDP representative's club, Mr. Representative of Luke Denon. Then the Club of Representatives of the HSS, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. So, proceed at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39709	We continue with the work of the Parliament's session. It's a club debate. And it's SDP's turn, the esteemed representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39710	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Here I can now tell my colleagues and colleagues, because in the meantime they joined except for the Rijeka parliamentary deputies and some others, so I thank them. It is obvious that this break should have been a little longer, but perhaps because the proposal to amend and supplement this law is unattractive, but allow me to say in advance that the SDP Club will support the proposal of this law, especially when it is argued in the explanation that in 2008 a new law on concessions is adopted in the process of harmonising Croatia's legislation with the legal property of the European Union, which is otherwise governed by the concession procedure, i.e. the legal protection in the concession procedures, the termination of concessions, and the Law on Public Private Partnership and the provisions of those laws must be harmonised with the concession provisions of the Public Roads Act. It is also one article of the argument that the concession procedure of 1 January 2009 was subject to the concession law to remove from the law any provision contrary to the concession law and thus create legal assumptions for the granting of new concessions. And when it is read, of course, that no club, nor does it seem to me that individual MPs would mind that such a law be passed, that is, to carry out this harmonisation. But here I would just ask the secretary of state if I could, since the introduction also mentions the Law on Public Roads, so it's called "The People's Newspaper," I'll just end up saying 148/08, 152/08. and 38/09. I suppose that, in these amendments and additions, the Law on Public Roads is also in line with the acquis of the European Union. Also now we have two seemed to me to be a harmonised law that has been living out of sync for a year to meet somewhere and to sort of get back together again. Because if since 1.9, the Treaty of concessions has been alive, then we only now agree with the Law on Public Roads. It seems to me that there's too much time to bring anything together. So here's what I'm afraid is that these laws that we need to comply with and that run one for the other uncoordinated, that we meet somewhere and get along, are going to be pretty much more, so it would be good if something were to match up with the European Union's gain that the laws that this concerns also agree on, rather than wait for that one year. That's one of my remarks. And now, if I may just ask, I may not have understood correctly, but Article 48 of the final bill states that the concessionaire is authorised to decide on the use of roadland and to carry out follow-up activities on the public road in accordance with the rules laid down in Article 46 of this Law. We know what this is about, means a concessionary who gets a concession from the lords and land along the highway, so you might want to add here or elsewhere to decide on the use of roadland, so it might be good to have it with the consent of the concession provider. We know that only gas stations or other facilities can be there, but even if it says so, that the concessionaire is authorized to decide on the use of road land, it would be good to stand somewhere with the consent of the concession giver, because I'm not sure I read it somewhere that it's going to be settled by contract. Also, of course the decision is good to be 40 years old and it gives, the concession is given by the Government, but it would be good if once a year those concession reports also arrived before this Parliament so that we know how concessionaries take advantage of what was given to them in the concession and if it's all the way it should be then. I am pleased that in Article 52 of the concession agreement where the rights and obligations of the concessionors, the concessionaires are laid down and something called the criteria for determining the amount of the compensation. I suppose the concession provider, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, will also be able to create these criteria for determining the level of the toll in the future and have an impact on those of us who drive the highways to then believe we also pay cheaper highways than it is today. Mr Secretary of State, too, in Article 51, when the decision to select the most favourable bidder, which contains the following, is listed, in particular, the conditions for the provision of third individual works or services subject to concession. I believe that under these terms you are thinking about, so these are subconcessions that concessionaries are likely to give to one of the users of services, but I guess I'm not sure what conditions we can prescribe, since if I'm not wrong, we live in times when all the works and all the services are being called for in a public tender. Well, I believe that it is not necessary to state the conditions, because in the public tender, whoever gets the most will be able to build or pump or build another service facility or something else. So it seems to me that, here's to these few questions if you can explain yourself a little bit. And certainly here you put somewhere that the Government of the Republic of Croatia must, at least once a year, give this Parliament a report on the course of concession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39711	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Stanko Grcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39712	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I will try without much repetition and content of previous discussions because my colleagues have already asked a lot of these questions and I will try very briefly to present and explain the views of the Croatian Peasant Party Club. The Public Roads Act, along with other conditions, has granted concessions for the construction and management of highways and certain roadways on a state road such as bridge, tunnel or some other building. That includes the right to economic use of highways or buildings on the state road, as well as the right to reconstruct the maintenance of highways and road facilities on the state road during the concession period or the right to use roadland for the construction of accompanying service facilities and to carry out catering activities, the supply of fuel services services or other services. However, in the course of 2008, in the process of harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, we also passed a new law on concessions and the Law on Public Private Partnership, which in a different way regulates a number of concession issues. It is therefore good for us to approach such amendments and additions to the Law on Public Roads in order to harmonise concession issues on highways and on state roads with the new provisions of these laws. As we can see, the basic objective that is to achieve is to bring public road law in line with the concession law in such a way that the Public Roads Law proposal amends or deletes or refers to its application. We support the need for this kind of hasty adoption of the amendments in question and the addition of public road laws because the concession law applies from 1 January of this year, i.e. the procedure for granting concessions towards the same. Therefore, the harmonisation of this law is of particular interest to the whole society, i.e. of the state interest. It is also good that the implementation of this Law does not necessarily require funds from the budget of the Republic of Croatia, and we in the Croatian Peasants' Party believe that these amendments to the Law on Public Roads will resolve the current discrepancies with the Law on concessions, so we therefore support the proposed amendments and hope for its successful application in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39713	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, the distinguished representative of Danica Hurs, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39714	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Public road is generally good and public roads cannot acquire ownership rights or other real rights on any basis. Public roads are classified as we know on highways, state roads, county roads and local roads. These proposed amendments to the Law on Public Roads, as proposed by the applicant, are proposed solely in order to comply with the Law on concessions which entered into force 1. 1. In 2009, it should be supported. However, there are several open issues. It amended the provision of Article 50, which prescribed that the decision to award a concession for public roads should the concession be given to the Croatian Parliament for 33 and more years, and, in time to 33 years, the Government. The provision has been amended in accordance with Article 3 of this proposal for the concession procedure to be implemented by the Resoring Ministry in accordance with the Law on concessions. It is further stated in Article 4 that the decision to select the most favourable bidder in the concession procedure is made by the Government as a concession provider on behalf of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal is to exclude the Croatian Parliament as a public road concession provider, for what reason. You can't see anything from the explanation. It is stated that this proposal set the deadline for granting a concession of 40 years, Article 1 and that the Government granted a concession up to 33 years after the abovementioned provision and justified it to take the decision on the award of the concession until the deadline laid down. 40 years. For the purposes of paragraph 3, the deadlines shall be as set out in paragraph 3. 20 days in the Law, 30 days in concessions, and item 4. 60 days in the Law on concessions 10 days of the amended Article 52 other than those prescribed by the Law on concessions for those actions. What will happen with the three highway concessions that have been awarded since 1995. Whether concessions contracts will be revised in view of these amendments to the Law, we know the duration of 40 years. Here, with these questions, I will say that members of the Croatian People's Party Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39715	Thank you. We've closed the debate by the clubs. We're going to an individual debate. Representative Vesna Buterin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39716	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The relevant public road law stipulates that concessions acquire the right to build and manage highways and certain facilities on the state road, including the right to economic use, the right to reconstruction and maintenance during the concession period and so on. The concession is, of course, awarded after the public tender. The Law also does not allow concessions for the county or local road, which is related to Article 6 in which the introduction of toll collection is intended only on the highway. In order to be able to open future competitions for the award of concessions on public roads that will be in line with the new Law on concessions, it is necessary to adopt this draft law which contains certain amendments which I will list here in my debate. Therefore, according to the earlier Law on concessions, the deadline on which the concession could be awarded was 99 years, and now the period on which the concession is given is limited to 40 years. In order to award the concession, it is necessary to carry out preparatory actions for the award of concessions carried out by the Ministry in accordance with the concession law, namely those preparatory actions being considered with the rest of the assessment of the value of the concession and the development of a eligibility study of the concession. The concession provider shall, in particular, take into account public interest, environmental impact, nature protection and cultural goods, the financial effects of the concession and compliance with the economic, development plans and plans of the concession provider itself. The concession contract itself set out the content of the contract, the subject matter of the concession, the duration of the concession, the level of the concession fee and the manner and conditions of its payment, the criteria for determining the level of the toll, the conservation measures and the protection of the environment, as I have just stated, the termination of the concession contract and the conditions for the handover of the highway and the individual facility on the state road at the end of the concession contract. On the basis of this above, I am in full support of the amendments and additions made to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39717	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, esteemed Zdravko Livaković, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39718	Here are the respected representatives of a few answers to questions, so the distinguished representative of Denon. It was one of the questions why this law is only now in line when it's this one. So there was a basis for the Law on concessions and the Law on Public Private Partnership, a lot of dilemmas because underlining concessions on roads under all other concessions, i.e. public private partnerships, it's quite difficult because it's a much more comprehensive problem, I say, so it took a little more time for us to coordinate it. And what did you ask about the criteria under which the subcontractor would take place? So when someone is given a concession then they are given everything and he chooses a contractor, if something needs to be built, according to his own will and his business interests. So no more public competition for certain works and services. It's so under concessions, isn't it? So, in line with European practice, we haven't done anything new here. I think it is very important in the concessionaire's competition to determine, that the concessionaire proposes what criteria are for the determination of the toll, because then we can clearly and transparently monitor that it does not accidentally increase prices for end-users without any control but that these criteria are clearly worked out so that everyone can simply follow it. That's where it's mentioned, you said, in order to trust, say, gas stations with the consent of the concession provider, we can hear it in the contract, I think that would be a provision that we would put in the contract, anyway. And by the way, this sphere, I say, concessions and concession competitions and concession agreements in European legislation and practices are designed so that they are practically springs. HNS ladies, for 40 years, has been voted in this House in the Law on Public-private Partnership so that we only apply this situation from this law to this, because here it is not only harmonized with the Law on concessions but also with the Law on Public-private Partnership. Now, by the age of 33 or 40, here's the government's proposal for this model, I don't think there's anything particularly controversial or intentional to shut down I don't know the government past this House, but if in that sense there's any amendment, you're the one who brings it, and I don't, right? Here are the existing contracts, the existing contracts in the end line to them, not only apply to this law in the event of any modification and addition of any such contracts, but then the concession law governing the concession agreement applies. I think I'm this one that I've managed to catch up with. Is 40 years in a row going to be reported? I don't know, I just think it would be. The contract is signed and you know who's following it, what's that report supposed to look like, I don't know in what sense, in what form would that happen at all? Now imagine that these concessions are a lot, so how many sessions is it? I think maybe it's too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39719	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when we get the necessary conditions and move on to point 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39720	Fifth, Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Roads. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 426. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I give the vote: Final proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Roads. Please, let's get involved and vote. And check if what you wanted worked in that place, because a lot of people do it, so they don't control it. I'm warning you. It happens to me, too. What's the score? The bill was passed by a majority vote, 92 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and one against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39721	Moving to point 6. - Final proposal of the 1996 Act of Confirmation of Protocol with the 1976 Convention on Minimum Standards of Commercial Ships, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 428. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ivica Perovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39722	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the honourable MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Often, we are proud to point out that Croatia is a maritime state and it really is. Both on its 6 thousand 278km long coast, land and islands, and with a thousand 180 ships with about 1.5 million gross registration tones and about 104 thousand boats and yachts registered in Croatian registers on their ports, but perhaps more than exactly 20 thousand Croatian sailors sailing on ships of all countries of the world. The Croatian Government recognized the specificity of this demanding profession, so by initiating and implementing a series of measures and activities, it sought to act in a stimulating way and to select a maritime profession, as well as to preserve and promote this profession. In fact, in the world as well as in us, we have seen an alarming trend in falling interest in going to the ship, so the maritime industry is facing an increasingly serious shortage, above all, of the officer's staff. In such conditions, we in Croatia can boast of a systematic approach to the development of maritime development as a whole, especially by measures aimed at sears. Let's just mention some, scholarship students and students of maritime schools and colleges, reforming maritime education, building a school ship, spending so-called. Social reform for sailors that has ensured the participation of all Croatian seamen in the Croatian health and pension system under more favourable conditions. A whole series of tax reliefs have been provided for sailors. The highest world standards of life and seafarers are continuously integrated into Croatian legislation. But precisely the fact that a large number of Croatian sailors are more than 80% sailing on ships of foreign flags. It particularly motivates us to actively participate and encourage the adoption and application of global standards, which ensure decent living and working conditions for the seamen regardless of the flag under which they sail. One such instrument is the Convention on Minimum Standards on Commercial Ships of 1976, whose party has been the Republic of Croatia since 1996 under the 1995 Confirmation Act. The purpose of this Convention is to ensure the implementation of standards contained in a whole series of other instruments adopted under the International Labour Organisation, in a uniform manner, and achieved by among other rules on inspection supervision carried out in ports, by vessels of the foreign flag. The 1996 Protocol, which entered into force in 2003, extends the list of conventions whose implementation and supervision of implementation is ensured by this instrument of course. Since the provisions of the Conventions contained in the 1996 Protocol have already been implemented in Croatian legislation and apply on Croatian ships, the particular importance of the adoption of this law will be reflected in the supervisory component, i.e. in ensuring supervision of the application of ILO provisions on ships of foreign flags in Croatian ports, as is the request of the European Union Directive relating to inspection supervision of foreign ships in the ports of Member States of the European Union. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39723	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. And they're the first in line for the clubs. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39724	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here we heard an exhaustive introductory report from our secretary of state, and at first I will say that members of the Croatian People's Party Club will support the proposal for a law confirming the 1996 Protocol with the Convention on Minimum Standards on Commercial Ships of 1976. It's not a waste of some things over and over again, so let me. So, the Republic of Croatia was said to be in '96. the year confirmed the Convention on Minimum Standards on Commercial Ships, which, of course, required the adoption of laws or other regulations governing ships registered in its territory. These include safety standards, appropriate social security measures, working relationship conditions and living conditions on board, and in connection with the abovementioned exercise of real control over ships registered in its territory. The provisions of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions implementing the Convention shall comply with the provisions of the conventions set out in the Appendix to the Convention. The Convention has been implemented in our legislation through the provisions of the Maritime Code and the regulations adopted by it as a series of regulations governing the issue of special emphasis in controlling the conditions of life and the work of sailors on board ships. 1996 Protocol with the Convention on Minimum Standards on Commercial Ships, '76. The year came into force on 10 January 2003, and so far it has been ratified by 23 states. The Protocol extends the list of conventions listed in the Appendix to the Convention, and the additions are minimal to standards on commercial ships from 1976. Inclusion of the Convention on the Accommodation of crew members on ships from the 1970s. In the year, the '96 Labour Time Convention and the number of crew members. in the year, the 1958 Convention on Personal Corrections of Seafarers, the Convention on Labour Representatives of 1971, the 1987 Convention on Health Care and Provided Medical Care, the Convention on the Repatriation of Seafarers, which was revised from 1987. Therefore, the Protocol shall enter into force for the Republic of Croatia 12 months after the date of registration of its ratification by the Director-General of the International Labour Office. Finally, the confirmation of this Protocol completes the whole of the multilateral contracts that the Republic of Croatia is in the process of harmonising Croatian maritime legislation with the acquis of the European Union, it simply has to confirm.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39725	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39726	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Republic of Croatia is '96. confirm the Convention on Minimum Standards on Commercial Ships of the International Labour Organisation and thereby undertake to adopt laws or regulations governing safety standards for ships registered in its territory. The Convention has been implemented in our legislation under the provisions of the Maritime Code and the regulations adopted under that law. These are different rules as a rule. What does this convention tell us? So here's the most important thing. Any member ratifying this Convention shall be obliged to have laws or regulations for ships registered in its territory which regulate safety standards including standards of training, working time and a number of crew conditions so as to guarantee the safety of life on board. Then appropriate social security measures, also the conditions of working relationship on board and the conditions of life on board to the extent that members are not considered to be governed by collective agreements or not determined by competent courts in a manner equally binding on shipowners and seafarers to whom they relate. It is of particular importance that the Convention does not allow any discrimination on the basis of race, skin colour, sex, religion, political belief, national or social origin that it has for the consequence of abolishing or disrupting equality, possibility or behaviour in employment or occupation. So, in order not to read these other provisions and articles really one major improvement in our legislation and for our sailors and, of course, the HDZ Club will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39727	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. We have one reported. The Honorable representative of Gary Capelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39728	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today is therefore an opportunity to discuss the proposal for a law confirming the 96 protocol with the Convention on Minimum Standards on Commercial Ships of 76. So we know that in the Republic of Croatia today we have about thirty thousand sailors. Our country is taking constant care of this category of population, thus making it easier to make their call more difficult in one way or another. A part of Croatian sailors work on Croatian flag ships. The Republic of Croatia has far greater powers and opportunities for intervention compared to Croatian seamen sailing on ships of foreign flags, although compared to these latter, it seems that through the action of Croatian representatives in international regulatory bodies, as well as through the adoption of certain domestic rules such as the right to a direct claim against liability insurance providers, and the international jurisdiction of Croatian courts in the dispute over the damages caused by death and physical injury. With regard to seamen sailing on domestic ships, the Republic of Croatia shall have the possibility to adopt rules which must apply to such ships which relate to the conditions of life and work of the seamen. The Republic of Croatia is a member of the 56 Conventions of the International Labour Organisation relating to Seamen and seeks to present the provisions of these conventions in domestic legislation with its internal regulations. One such convention is Convention 147 on minimum standards on commercial ships. Therefore, by adopting this Convention, the Republic of Croatia has committed itself in its national legislation to transpose the provisions of so-called 15 different conventions of the International Labour Organisation on the Conditions of Life and Work of Seamen. In 96. The 147 Convention is complemented by a protocol extending the application of the Convention to six other Conventions of the International Labour Organisation on the Conditions of Life and Work of Seamen. In other words, the 96 protocol extends a series of conventions that are implemented in national legislation under Convention 147. The law that lies before us today is passed on to the adoption of this 96th Protocol at Convention No 147. The 147 Convention as well as the 96th Protocol has therefore been ratified by the majority of the members of the European Union. By accepting the 96 protocol. The Republic of Croatia would continue to start the trend of adopting the International Labour Organisation standards in the areas of living and working conditions of the seamen as well as rounding up the work already started by adopting Convention No 147 itself, but also joining a large family of European countries that did the same. I therefore fully support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39729	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39730	Sixth, Final Proposal for the 1996 Law on the Confirmation of Protocols with the 1976 Convention on Minimum Standards on Commercial Ships. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 428. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I give the vote: Final proposal of the 1996 Act on Confirmation of Protocols to the Convention on Minimum Standards on Commercial Ships of 1976. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. The result? The bill was adopted by most votes, 88 votes for and 2 abstentions, nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39731	We're going to the 7th item of the agenda. - Final draft law amending the Road Transport Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 439 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39732	Thank you, Mr. President. Very short. The provisions of the applicable Road Transport Act show that the operation of all types of public road transport is based on a system of permits, licences, licences and the like except for a car taxi transport where the possibility of carrying out activities is left on a licence or concession. This law introduces a system of licences and in the activity of car taxi transport, and more precisely determines the area in which the carrier carries out the car taxi transport. The experience so far in the application of this law has shown that the concession institute was not used in its substantive sense as a concession but as a system of licences. In addition, it should be borne in mind that last year a concession law has been adopted which regulates the procedure of ending concessions and legal protection in concession procedures, which means that the existing provisions of the Road Transport Act relating to the concession as a way of carrying out a car taxi transport were not in line with the provisions of the applicable law, which, of course, is the legal proposal and corrects. With regard to the competence to organise a taxi service that has been a lot of talk in recent years, and I would like to point out in the public opinion that, despite some initiatives, this does not affect this now, this will be done through the following changes if the full amendments of the Road Transport Act are needed. These remain that the competence of local self-government units to define the conditions under which the taxi service will be carried out in their territory, in the domain of their own jurisdiction, in the domain of the units of local self-government. For further questions, of course, we are available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39733	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39734	Vice President. The Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison at the 35th session held on 24 September discussed the proposal for a Law amending the Law on Transport in Road Transport, with the final proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, the first and second reading submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee discussed the proposal for a Law amending the Road Transport Act as a home working body in accordance with the provisions of Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening statement was given by the applicant's representative. He stated earlier that the provisions of the applicable Road Transport Act show that the exercise of the activities of all types of public road transport are based on the system of licences, except for the car taxi transport, which leaves the possibility of carrying out activities on the basis of licences or concessions. This law introduces the system of licences and the activity of the car taxi and sets out more precisely the area in which the carrier carries out the car taxi transport. He also pointed out that this law is in line with the Law on concessions. The debate discussed the Croatian Chamber of crafts which indicated that car taxi transport should be regulated at County level and that this solution would be more logical and justified. The applicant's representative explained the bad side of the proposal, stressing the advantages of the proposed solution that enables car taxi transport to be carried out on the basis of licences. In the field of units of local self-government in which no car taxi is issued, the car taxi is carried out on the basis of a car taxi licence, provided that the competent authority of the local self-government unit does so by means of a regulation. The debate expressed the view that it is necessary to consider the possibility of laying down criteria to achieve uniformity and to allow competitiveness in the activity of car taxi transport. After the debate was held, the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law amending the Law on road transport in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39735	Thank you. You can stay here right now because you're up on behalf of the club. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39736	Thank you, Vice President. Indeed, after the presentation of the Secretary of State and what I read on behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Traffic, there is no and I do not feel the need for God to say anything new, and in particular there is no need to spread. Therefore, the Road Transport Act regulates between other conditions and how passengers in internal road transport are carried out. In order to carry out certain types of public road transport, the carrier must be registered to carry out public road transport activities and possess a licence to demonstrate compliance with the law of the prescribed conditions. In order to start the operation, the carrier must obtain from the competent authority a permit for a certain type of transport. And as the Secretary of State said, the exception in this regard so far were, still, car taxi carriers. According to the provisions of the applicable law, car taxi transport is carried out on the basis of a licence and may also be carried out on the basis of a concession. The concession tender must contain, in addition to the other conditions for issuing the licence prescribed by that law. Therefore, the carrier carrying out the car taxi transport on the basis of a concession is not obliged to obtain a licence. So far, experience in applying this law has shown that the concession institute was not the most effective in terms of content, but as part of the system of licences. It has also been pointed out that the concession law is in force, and this law does not comply with that concession law, and this is also necessary for harmonisation. Therefore, the provisions of the applicable Road Transport Act show that the exercise of the activities of all types of public road transport is based on the system of licences, except for car taxis, and this law introduces the system of licences and car taxis. In addition, more precisely, the area in which the carrier carries out the car taxi is determined is determined by the most important. We all have experience in everyday life, and often local officials and major problems about these car taxi transports or places of jurisdiction and where they can move, board, land, etc. This proposal is improving as well. And the HDZ club supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39737	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39738	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues. The road transport law is a law governing the conditions and manner of carrying out the activity of passengers and freight in internal road transport, the provision of stationary services, the transport for own use, as well as the responsibilities of the bodies in charge of the implementation and supervision of the implementation of this law. I want to highlight the quality seen in this law, primarily because the directives or norms prescribed by the European Union are covered by this law, and it is also evident that the ministry communicates with the owners or participants in road public transport. This law can also be closely linked to the Transport Safety Act. In fact, it is some articles that are mentioned in both laws with almost the same provisions. The ministry must take responsibility for proposing and controlling such laws. This is how we will see that certain things are regulated into two different laws, although it is quite clear that this is the area of the Road Transport Act. We have before us amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act which, among other things, regulates the conditions and manner of carrying out the activity of passengers in internal road transport, and in order to carry out those activities, a legal or natural person must be registered and hold a licence. The carrier must also be authorised from the competent institutions for a specific type of transport. The exception is car taxi transport where passenger transport is carried out by personal car. In this direction are amendments and additions to this law where car taxi transport is proposed on the basis of licences issued by competent authorities in the local self-government unit and on the basis of a licence or concession other than in local self-government units where licences are not issued. These amendments and amendments to the law also determine the area in which the car taxi carrier can carry out its activity, but thus enable the competent authority to determine under which conditions the transport of car taxis to carriers established and resident outside the area of the local self-government unit is allowed. Since this law needs to be brought into line with the Law on concessions, which has been in force since 1 January of this year, the SDP will support amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act even though it should have already been done nine months ago but as a good old proverb says, "Better ever than never." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39739	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, distinguished representative Danica Hursa.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39740	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. These short proposed amendments to the Road Transport Act seem to me to be a concrete and enforceable anti-recession measure in the small undertaking of the transport industry, i.e. car taxi transport. In fact, the Law proposes a simpler and faster procedure for carrying out a car taxi on the basis of a permit, which is within the jurisdiction of the units of local self-government. Which is a good provision so autonomy is given to local self-government and there is no tampering of the central state in fact which is best known and can solve local self-government. In particular, it is possible for units of local self-government to adopt, in accordance with their needs, a regulation on the performance of a car taxi and to establish the organisation of the operation of a car taxi transport, a position, and the way they are used, the number of seats in the vehicle and other conditions relating to the appearance and equipment of the vehicle. This is proposed instead of applying a concession institute which has not been used in the real sense in terms of this institute, nor produced good results and thus more than 1. 1. In 2009, a new Law on concessions entered into force. Where licences are not issued or where units of local self-government have not adopted a regulation on the operation of a car taxi transport, such transport shall be carried out on the basis of a car taxi service licence in accordance with the provisions of the Road Transport Act. The law also lays down more precisely the area in which the car taxi carrier carries out its activity, also empowering units of local self-government to be able to determine in advance by that regulation under which conditions car taxi transport is permitted for carriers with their seat, resident outside the unit of local self-government. There may be a problem of "fleeing" carriers in those areas where, of course, better conditions, perhaps due to the emergence of unfair competition, but this must be determined by local self-government to protect its entrepreneurs. For these reasons, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party will support amendments to road transport laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39741	Thank you. And on behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39742	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The HSS Club will support the Law amending road transport laws because this proposal is harmonised by legal provisions and thus ensures their application and we believe in feasibility. This Act introduces a system of licences and car taxi transport activities and regulates more specifically the areas in which the carrier carries out car taxi transport. We simply feel that the real situation is equating with legal regulation and we are harmonising it with the practice of European countries. The road transport law, among other things, lays down the conditions and method of carrying out the activity of the transport of passengers in internal road transport. The activity of passenger transport also includes car taxi transport carried out by a passenger car if the passenger or group of passengers is taken in one place. That activity shall be carried out in a manner prescribed by law and regulation adopted in accordance with the law by the competent authority of the units of local self-government, or the City of Zagreb. According to the applicable law, car taxi transport shall be carried out on the basis of a licence or concession and the concession shall be granted by the competent authority of the units of local self-government, or the City of Zagreb, if it has established by its regulation that car taxi transport is carried out on the basis of a concession. The present experience in the application of this Act has shown that the concession institute was not used in a substantive sense as a concession but as a system of licences. According to the provisions of the applicable Road Transport Act, the performance of all types of public road transport is based on a system of permits or licences except for car taxis. In the light of the above, given that the practice of European countries in car taxi transport is used by the Institute of Authorisation and not by concessions to this Final Proposal for the Law amending road transport laws, the system of licences is introduced and into the activity of the car taxi transport and determines more precisely the area in which the carrier operates the car taxi transport. Therefore, the legal position of carriers in the Republic of Croatia is evenly aligned and legal regulation is harmonised with the real situation on the ground. Furthermore, the procedures for granting a concession to cease concessions legal protection in the award and termination of the concession and other concession issues are governed by the new Law on concessions, which has been in force since 1 January 2009 and is in line with the acquis of the European Community. The proposed amendments to the applicable Act as a special law are in line with the roof concession law, which is of particular importance to the enforceability of the Law itself and to the exercise of legal certainty for persons carrying out the car taxi service. Following the above, the adoption of the Law amending road transport laws will fully achieve the horizontal and vertical compliance of the legal rules governing the transport of road transport. From all above, the Croatian Peasants' Club will support amendments to road transport laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39743	Thank you. We have an individual discussion. Honorable representative Gary Capelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39744	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. The current Road Transport Act therefore regulates between other conditions and how passengers are engaged in the transport of passengers in internal road transport. In order to carry out certain types of public road transport, the carrier shall be registered to carry out public road transport activities and shall hold a licence proving compliance with the law of the prescribed conditions. In order to start carrying out the activity, the carrier must obtain from the competent authority, so a permit for a particular species while the exception in this respect was a car taxi transport. The transport activity of passengers carried out by means of a personal car, if a passenger or a group of passengers is taken in one place. According to the provisions of that law, car taxi transport was carried out on the basis of a licence and can also be carried out on the basis of a concession. If that regulation so determines the competent authority of the local self-government unit. In the case of such autonomous regulation of carrying out a car taxi transport in the area of a unit of local self-government, the competent authority will lay down, by means of a regulation, the conditions for obtaining that concession and the car taxi stop, and the number of seats in a private vehicle carrying out a car taxi transport. Therefore, the carrier carrying out the car taxi transport on the basis of a concession is not obliged to obtain a licence. If the competent authority of the unit of local self-government does not adopt a regulation laying down a concession as a way of carrying out a car taxi transport, therefore in its territory, and the carrier may carry out a car taxi transport on the basis of a licence under the general conditions prescribed by the Road Transport Act. The experience so far, therefore in the application of this law, has shown that the concession institute was not used in a substantive sense as a concession with all the consequences resulting from the application of this institute but as part of the system of licences. In addition, it should be borne in mind that in 2008, a concession law was adopted which regulates the procedure, namely giving and ending the concession, and legal protection in concession procedures, which means that the existing provisions of the Road Transport Act relating to the concession as a means of carrying out car taxi transport were not in line with the provisions of the applicable Law on concessions. It is obvious from the provisions of the applicable Road Transport Act that the exercise of the activities of all types of public road transport is based on the system of permits, approval, licences and the like. Except in the case of car taxi services, where the possibility of carrying out activities is left on the basis of licences or concessions. This law introduces, therefore, the system of permits and the activity of car taxi transport, and more precisely determines the area in which the carrier carries out the car taxi transport. In view of the state of business described, car taxi services as well as the fact that the practice of European countries is used by the Institute of Car Taxi Licenses by this law, the legal position of carriers in the Republic of Croatia is uniformly aligned with the legal regulations, therefore with the actual situation. In addition, it is proposed to remove the non-compliance with the provisions of the Road Transport Act in the section relating to concessions with the provisions of the concession law applicable from 1 January 2009 to the concession procedure and which is therefore in line with the legal property of the European Community. I therefore support the Proposal for a Law amending the Road Transport Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39745	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39746	Seven, Final Proposal for a Law amending the Road Transport Act, emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 439. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I give the vote: Final proposal for a Law amending the Road Transport Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This bill was adopted unanimously by 95 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39747	We're moving to the eighth item of the agenda. It is - Final proposal of the law on combined transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 436 The draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Drazen Breglec, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39748	Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Therefore, the draft law on combined transport aligns Croatian legislation with one directive, in particular Directive 92 of '92. the year on the establishment of common rules for certain types of combined freight transport between Member States. The Directive harmonising the law aims to promote the development of combined transport as alternatives to road transport with the aim of discharging road roads, increasing traffic safety, reducing environmental pollution, saving energy, reducing noise levels, etc. In addition, the most important strategic document for the long-term development of the European Union's common transport policy, the White Paper of the European Union, European Transport Policy 2010 "Time for Decision" as its primary objective, cites the promotion of the balance of different forms of transport by revitalising rail, maritime and river transport, i.e. by revitalising those forms of transport that pollute the environment less. In this respect, the Combined Transport Act is in line with the basic objectives of the common transport policy of the European Union. The area of combined transport and its encouragement in the Republic of Croatia until the adoption of this law were not systematically governed by a single legal act. Therefore, the adoption of this law aims in a systematic manner to regulate and encourage the development of combined transport in accordance with the rules and the basic common objectives of transport European policy. The most important issues to be addressed by this law, which I would like to highlight in the opening section, are the provision which provides for the adoption of a strategy for the development of combined intermodal transport in the Republic of Croatia aimed at the long-term development of combined transport, as well as the promotion of logistics in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, this law will also result in the possibility of exempting from the obligation to pay an annual fee for the use of public roads paid for the registration of motor vehicles for owners or users and motor vehicles registered in the Republic of Croatia which are primarily used for previous and subsequent transport to and from the rail terminal for combined transport or rail freight station. So there's actually the essence of this law. Let us help carriers whose basic costs in terms of exemption from the obligation to pay compensation for the use of public roads and this exemption if they use their vehicles according to certain criteria for combined transport aim to promote change, i.e. revitalisation and rail transport and the removal of freight from roads which has certainly many positive consequences. Also, the exemption from quotas and licences will be one of the options that the positive consequences of this law would like to encourage foreign road carriers transiting the Republic of Croatia or transporting through the Republic of Croatia to use a much more environmentally acceptable form of transport, so primarily the railway. Also, the release from the ban on traffic, which is normally prescribed during the summer season, weekends and holidays, which have been defined and defined by the minister's order, would not apply to participants in the combined traffic, of course to the part where the cargo and the vehicle along with the load is located on the road. Finally, the law provides for it to enter into force in 2010, and for certain provisions of the law on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, such as the exemption from the payment of the annual fee for the use of public roads. For all further questions, we are at our disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39749	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? On behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, the esteemed representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39750	Your Honor, Vice President. The Maritime, Transport and Liaison Committee at the 35th session held on 24 September 2009 discussed the Proposal for a Combined Transport Act with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 436, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 27 August. The Committee discussed the proposal of the Combined Transport Act as a home working body, in accordance with the provisions of Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening statement was given by a representative of the applicant who said that the adoption of the Combined Transport Act is a further harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union in a part that has not yet been harmonised, which concerns combined transport. Based on the most important strategic document for the long-term development of the common transport policy of the European Union, the White Paper of the European Commission, the European transport policy for 2010 time for decision. The main objective of the common transport policy is to promote the achievement of the balance of different forms of transport by revitalising rail, maritime and river canal transport by 2010, i.e. by revitalising those forms of transport that pollute the environment less. The main objective is to reduce road traffic loads and reduce its negative impact on the environment through the direction of road traffic on coastal navigation, railways and inland navigation. Representatives of the Croatian train transport union expressed dissatisfaction with the proposed solution, believing that the railway was placed in an unfavourable position with regard to road carriers, and that the railway should be able to be levelled with competition. The debate found that this proposal favours Croatian railways, since the law allows intermodal infrastructure, Spačva terminal and low floor wagons for truck transport, which are not used enough. It has been pointed out that, with the adoption of the strategy, this law will create conditions for further promotion and development of combined transport. After the discussion was held, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament voted in majority, 4 for, 3 abstentions, decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Combined Transport Act in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39751	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. And first it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Ivan Bogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39752	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. The final proposal of the Combined Transport Act is supported entirely by the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives. The combined transport shall be the carriage of a freight vehicle, trailers, semi-trailers with or without a tow truck, exchange boxes or containers of a length of 20 feet, i.e. 6,096 metres or more use of railways or inland waterways or maritime transport, where the initial or final road section is crossed from the loading point to the nearest terminal for combined transport or the nearest cargo station as the initial section, and from the nearest terminal for combined transport or the nearest cargo station to the point of loading of the load on the final section of the road. The adoption and adoption of the Combined Transport Act is a further harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union in a part that has not yet been harmonised and relating to combined transport. The obligation of the Republic of Croatia to comply with the Council Directive laying down common rules for certain types of combined transport of goods between Member States. This law regulates the basic concepts and distances in combined transport, the release from the obligation to pay an annual fee for the use of public roads, the release from licences and quotas and the release from road traffic restrictions for the participants of combined transport, as documents which must be made available to the freight car driver in combination transport, in order to ensure long-term and coordinated development of combined transport and to encourage the development of logistics for the same. The government of the Republic of Croatia will bring a strategy for the development of combined transport in the Republic of Croatia. Some of the basic concepts in combined transport. The CMR is a basic sheet, a contractual agreement between road transport senders and recipients ensuring standard terms of freight transport in international road transport. K-504, K freight sheet, CIM for combined transport is a commission transport contract concluded between the combined transport company and its users, as well as a transport contract in accordance with the single legal regulations for the contract for the international rail transport of CIM between the carrier and the combined transport company. The intermodal transport unit is a container-changeable case, trailer, semi-trailer with or without a tow car and wagons intended for intermodal transport. Intermodal transport is the transport of cargo to the same intermodal unit using at least two modes of transport without loading loads. The loading station is a railway station equipped with modern cargo facilities with minimum infrastructure conditions for the transport and disposal of small quantities of intermodal transport units where there is an organisation of road transport and transportation of intermodal transport units. The combined transport freighter is a device which legally regulates combined transport and carries out all legal effects as well as the use of a maritime freighter. The terminal for combined transport is a location on railway, inland ports or seaports equipped with appropriate devices on which intermodal transport units change the type of transport. Article 4 of this Act determines distances in a combined transport in which most of the transport must be carried out by rail or inland waterways or by sea transport of more than 100 km of the air line, while the part carried out on a road must be carried out as short as possible within a radius of 100 km of the port air line, or within a radius of a maximum of 60 km of the rail terminal for combined transport or transport station. This law also provides for incentives for combined transport, e.g. the release of the annual fee for the use of public roads. Owners or users of motor vehicles and connected vehicles registered in the Republic of Croatia, for which, during 12 months from the date of the last verification of the technical regularity of the vehicle, at least prior or subsequent transport to or from the rail terminal for combined transport or cargo station, shall be exempt from the obligation to pay the annual fee for the use of public roads to be paid in the registration of motor vehicles and which is established by a special regulation. The Minister responsible for transport operations shall establish the procedure and method of proving the use of the vehicle for the preceding and subsequent transport referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and obtaining the right to discharge from the payment of the annual fee for the use of public roads to be paid in the registration of motor vehicles and connections. The County Road Administrations, i.e. the administrative body of the City of Zagreb, will be compensated from the State budget for the amount of annual compensation for the use of public roads which have not been made for the application of Article 7(1) and (2) of this Act. The exemption from quotas and permits of ministers responsible for transport operations under Article 5 of this Act will also provide for road routes on which the previous and subsequent transport is excluded from all quotas and licences established by international multilateral and bilateral agreements. The exemption from road traffic restrictions on previous and subsequent transport shall not apply to the prohibitions of transport laid down by specific regulations. This Article determines that the minister responsible for transport operations will establish the road routes on which the previous and subsequent transport is excluded from all quotas and licences established by international multilateral and bilateral agreements. Such an exception aims to encourage foreign carriers to use more environmentally acceptable forms of transport, primarily railways, in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The combined transport documents during previous and subsequent transport shall prove that part of the combined transport includes or will include railways, inland waterways or maritime transport by means of the following transport documents: a copy of the CMR of the load sheet accompanying the load throughout the combined transport when the freight car is partly transported by rail by inland waterways or by sea transport and the load remains in the car. In addition to the information on previous and subsequent transport, it shall also contain information on the loading and destination terminal for combined transport or cargo station. A copy of the K-504-K cargo manifest... for combined transport in combined transport involving the railway. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A copy of the combined transport freighter which includes maritime transport, other than boarding port and destination port data, shall contain data on subsequent transport. A copy of the combined transport conclusions, which includes maritime transport, which, in addition to the information on the port of loading and destination, contains data on previous transport. A copy of any transport document accompanying the load throughout the combined transport and which, in addition to the information on the loading and destination terminal for combined transport or loading station, contains data on previous and subsequent transport. The combined transport used by railways or inland waterways or maritime transport shall be confirmed in such a document by the stamp of a combined transport terminal or cargo station. The collection of statistical data on combined transport is governed by the specific rules on the basis of which these data are supplied in EUROSTAT but only after the Republic of Croatia has joined the European Union. The government of the Republic of Croatia will, within 6 months of the date of the entry into force of this law, adopt a strategy for developing combined intermodal transport in the Republic of Croatia. The Minister responsible for transport operations under the regulation referred to in Article 5 of this Act will establish terminals for combined transport and cargo stations and will prescribe road routes in which the previous and subsequent transport is excluded from all quotas and licences established by international multilateral and bilateral agreements. The adoption of this law will bring into line with the relevant acquis of the European Union in the field of combined transport and thus fulfil the obligations arising from the negotiating chapter 14. Traffic policy. In a more systematic manner, it will also identify the issue of promoting combined transport with the aim of redirecting it to environmentally acceptable modes of transport, primarily rail transport. This would contribute to the decommissioning of road roads, reducing the number and consequences of traffic accidents, saving energy and reducing environmental pollution and noise levels. Due to the aforementioned Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, it gives full support to the bill and will vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39753	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39754	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The national programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union and the plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2009 provides for the adoption of the Combined Transport Act in order to comply with Council Directive 92 of 1992 laying down common rules for certain types of combined transport of goods between Member States. The said directive was adopted as a result of an increase in traffic through the development of the internal market, growing problems related to road congestion, the environment and road safety with a clear goal of developing combined transport as alternatives to road transport. Therefore, it aims as effectively as possible to connect road transport with rail, river and maritime, in terms of environmental protection and sustainable development. The Directive also takes into account the release of quantitative restrictions and the abolition of the various restrictive administrative rules still in place in the field of road transport. In addition, for the more intensive development of combined transport, tax exemptions are also planned for the use or possession of commercial vehicles if they are transported by rail, as well as incentive measures in the form of exemption of the initial and final road transport shares from customs regulations with mandatory application. The alignment with the above-mentioned directive is the obligations of the Republic of Croatia from the negotiating position for Chapter 14. Traffic policy. The area of combined transport and its promotion in the Republic of Croatia to the proposal of this law were not systematically governed by a single legal act. The problem was solved through, say, the Law on Railways, through the Regulation on Technical Conditions of Road Vehicles through the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Marco Polo programme. I will not elaborate on what all the legal acts are telling you, but I will only conclude that the laws mentioned can conclude that so far there have been no special tax reliefs for road vehicles participating in combined transport, except in the form of incentive funds based on bilateral international combined transport contracts with other countries. Based on the strategic document for the long-term development of the European Union's common transport policy, the European Transport Policy 2010 is the time for a decision so-called "the White Paper of the European Commission", the main objective of the common transport policy is to promote the achievement of the balance of different forms of transport, revitalisation of rail, maritime and river transport by 2010, i.e. by revitalising those forms of transport that pollute less the environment. The Combined Transport Act will regulate the following areas. A basic concept, distance from combined transport, rules relating to the exemption from the obligation to pay an annual fee for the use of public roads, the release from licences and quotas, the exemption from road traffic restrictions for participants of combined transport, the documentation to be made by the driver of an economic vehicle during each transport in combined transport. And the objectives, i.e. the consequences that will come after the adoption and application of this law, will be: decommissioning road roads, reducing traffic accidents and their consequences, saving energy, reducing environmental pollution, reducing noise levels. There is a great reason for representatives of the Croatian People's Party club to support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39755	Thank you. It is the turn of the HSS Club, the distinguished representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39756	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. Today, under item 4 of the agenda, we have already discussed and discussed sailing and waterways, and we at the HSS Club, that this contract that we have already agreed in some way to confirm, between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, will contribute to the achievement and implementation of this law. The area of combined transport and its promotion in the Republic of Croatia has so far not been systematically regulated by a single legal act. Following the adoption of the obligation to comply with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union, it has been found, in particular, by the Council Directive of the European Community that the transposition and implementation of that Directive into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia is necessary to adopt a specific law laying down common rules for certain types of combined transport of goods. For this reason, the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union and the plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2009 provides for the adoption of the Combined Transport Act. The basic objective which aims to achieve a balance of different forms of transport, namely rail, maritime and river transport, as well as to reduce road traffic loads and its negative impact on the environment through the direction of road traffic on coastal navigation, railways and inland navigation, such as those of less polluting traffic. The proposed law, in accordance with the legal property of the European Union, regulates the fundamental concepts of distances in combined transport, exempting from the obligation to pay an annual fee for the use of public roads, the release of licences and quotas and the release of traffic restrictions on road users for combined transport, as well as documents which must have, during each transport of a freight car driver in combined transport. The distances in combined transport are defined in such a way that the section of the road on which the freight wagon, semi-trailers with or without a tow truck, exchange boxes or containers of length 6, i.e. more use of railways and inland waterways or maritime transport of more than 100 km of air line, while part of road transport must be carried out as short as possible within a radius of a maximum of 100 km of air line from the port, i.e. a maximum of 60 km of air line from the railway terminal or freight station. The development of combined rail transport shall seek to be encouraged by provisions on the exemption from the obligation to pay an annual fee for the use of public roads paid for in the registration of motor vehicles and connected vehicles. In order to encourage foreign carriers to use more environmentally-acceptable forms of transport in the territory of the Republic of Croatia to a greater extent, a special regulation under the proposed law will lay down the roadways in which the previous subsequent transport, transport to the road section of combined transport, excluding all quotas and licences established by international multilateral and bilateral agreements. Furthermore, the proposed law encourages the use of combined transport and the prohibition of transport, which is set out in a specific regulation, i.e. by a road traffic restriction order, does not apply to previous or subsequent transport. The right to transport by road of combined transport, previous or subsequent transport, by crossing or without crossing the border, is based on the principles of reciprocity with the provisions of international contracts, thus achieving adequate protection of domestic carriers. The adoption of the proposed Combined Transport Act is a presumption of the harmonisation of national legislation with the acquis of the European Union in the field of combined transport and the fulfilment of the obligations arising from negotiating chapter 14. - Traffic policy. In addition, it should be pointed out that the promotion of combined transport is legally regulated in the proposed way, aimed at rerouting to more environmentally acceptable forms of transport, which is a prerequisite for the decommissioning of road roads, the reduction of the consequences of traffic accidents, energy savings accidents, and reduced environmental pollution and noise levels. To state the reasons as well as the obligations to comply with our regulations with European Union regulations are good and sufficient reason for the Croatian Peasant Party club to support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39757	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39758	Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the SDP club will also support this Proposal for a law on combined transport, so that I am not reading this harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union which is one of the conditions of association with the European Union, etc. And that's where you should stop and say it's all said. But let me say another extra sentence, of course I'll support it. Try to pass such a law which we will now pass he will be perfect, he will be harmonised but in my humble court we will fulfill the form but that combined transport will not be. If our goal is to adopt only form and be based on this legal solution, we are attached to this procedure of the European Union without the content behind it, and obviously we have not completed that real task. Why do I say that? Because, in the very explanation, the government's representative said so. Well, I'm trying here, and I can see that we're reading that this applies to us. No, that applies to them. We have not yet arrived at this stage and it is said that the most important strategic document for the long-term development of the common transport policy of the European Union, I stress the European Union does not share the European Commission's European transport policy for 2010 is the time for decision, the main objective of the common transport policy is to achieve a balance of different forms of transport through the revitalisation of rail, maritime and river canal transport by 2010. This applies to those who have this strategy, which is above all those who are in the European Union because we said we would only do all this within the time limit, that the most important document that we would have to bring into force within six months of the day of entry into force, that then we would only pass a law, a strategy to develop combined intermodal traffic in the Republic of Croatia, means in 2010 in six months, so that we would have a Combined Transport Act but we will not have combined traffic in reality because we do not have a strategy, of course. Because this is part of the point of view of representatives of the Croatian Railway Union who expressed their dissatisfaction with the proposed solution, believing that the railway was put in an unfavourable position with regard to road transporters and that the railway should be trained. We have the law, but we don't have those whose law is capable of implementing this law because it's obvious that even though the secretary of state will say it's a matter of the Law of Railways. Of course it is, but it is a matter of the Republic of Croatia and the same ministry that treats combined transport and the Law on Railways that then, by revitalising the railways, we are in a position or situation that we can then say that the Combined Transport Act makes sense because all those entities that participate in this combined transport are then strong enough and strong enough to do so. I'll talk about the other part where now all these terminals are intermodal terminals. We have Spach One and we don't have any others. We do not know whether the strategy will predict some others and how many will be in the Republic of Croatia and also in that part of maritime transport that should also be revitalised I am not sure that we have certain ports for RoRo ships. We have determined them, probably this strategy that will happen in 2010 in six months, perhaps in a comprehensive way. I will not talk about river canal transport because it seems to me that it is the least revitalised and that the most investment should be in it. That is why I stress, we will accept because the law is okay, the law is in line with the legislation of the European Union, but it is obvious that what follows the law is a lot of work from the strategy, from training all those who in this intermodal transport and transport must participate in and strengthen to bring that law back to life in any case, and that we do not only have the form here, we have now adopted European law and there will be nothing behind it. Well, then I think that, in the adoption and budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010, perhaps the revitalisation of the railway should stand somewhere, in order to meet these standards that we are passing by this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39759	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the honourable representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39760	Mr. Vice President. Just a couple of accentes because I see there's one agreement about this new law. It has been said that the adoption and adoption of laws by combined transport is a further harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union in this part which is not yet harmonised and which concerns this combined transport. The main objective of the common transport policy is to promote the achievement of the balance of different forms of transport by revitalising rail, maritime, river canal transport by 2010, i.e. by revitalising those forms of transport which are less polluting the environment, which is extremely important today. The area of combined transport in the Republic of Croatia has so far not been a single law, an act has been laid down, although certain support was given in the Law on Railways. The main objective of the programme is to reduce road traffic loads and reduce its negative impact on the environment through the direction of road traffic on coastal navigation, railways and inland navigation, which we all stress throughout the debate. This would also contribute to the decommissioning of road roads, reducing particularly traffic accidents, saving energy and reducing environmental pollution and noise levels. And we all agree that that's more than enough to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39761	Thank you. And the individual debate is attended by the distinguished representative Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39762	Thank you, Your Honor. At the very beginning of the debate, I would like to say that I welcome the adoption of this law and, in that sense, I will vote in favour of this law. The reasons why I am pleased with the adoption of this bill are those related to environmental protection, as combined transport or intermodal transport is a very good and useful measure to save fossil energy and reduce environmental pollution. It is not less important that the introduction of combined traffic has a positive impact on the deployment of road roads and the reduction of road accidents. It's all very nice and it should make us happy, but what we have to worry about is the following. The Proposer, the Competent Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure and only openly in the draft law recognises that the main reason for the adoption of this law is the harmonisation of domestic legislation with the acquis of the European Union, i.e. to enable the closure of the 14th chapter of the negotiations or the chapter on transport policy. In other words, if there were no European Union, we would not have passed the law on intermodal transport at all, thus actively working to reduce environmental pollution and other important benefits that necessarily lead to the use of intermodal transport. So this law, just like many other laws that we are voting in this House, is not because of us and the benefits of our country and of all citizens or citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but for the formal reason of harmonising with the acquis of the European Union, and that is indeed terrible. I have to express great doubt about the enforceability of this law and not only for the formal reasons why we are obviously passing this law, but also for another extremely important reason, and this key reason is the training of our railway to implement this law, or what real capacity our railways have for the realization of intermodal and combined traffic. I will take this opportunity to remind you of the following extremely important facts. Croatia's railway, rail infrastructure is in catastrophic condition. The fleet's still up there. Over the past few months, we have witnessed almost daily media reports screaming about corruption and economic crime in HZ, which have resulted in a recent terrible accident of the protracted train in Ludinos. The HDZ government, those Sanaders, just like this prime minister Kosor, almost completely halted the launch of a railway modernisation project. HDZ has abolished 1 kuna emissions from a litre of HH-Modification Fuels, although the suspension of that supply did not lead to the cost of gasoline. And now the HDZ government, after systematically working and working on rail destruction since 2003, is proposing a combined transport law that we should commend, but we need to think carefully about how well our traffic system is really equipped for intermodal traffic. Unfortunately, if there had been wisdom with HDZ, if the railway modernisation project launched by the coalition government had been continued, we would not have to ask ourselves this extremely important question today, and we would not be in the current problems. We would have a modernized and unsullied railroad and would not witness a tragic Serbian tragedy. And now I'm going to look back at a few provisions of the law that I consider dubious. The first refers to Article 2 and Article 12 of the Law, which provides that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will adopt a strategy for the development of combined transport in the Republic of Croatia within 6 months of the date of entry into force of this law. I ask the question why the government? Isn't it common for important strategic documents, and I believe that the strategy for the development of combined transport is an important strategic document, why does it mean that it is not brought by the Parliament as the most legislative body in the Republic of Croatia? For which reason has the applicant set up at least 80 transports to or from a combined transport terminal in Article 7? Why not 100 or 60, for example? What are the calculations on which this is based? I believe that, in the light of this provision of the bill to parliamentarians and MPs, the proponent should have explained why he put the lower limit on 80 transports for exemption from the obligation to pay an annual fee for the use of public roads and how much would it seem to me to be a rather high lower limit, incentivising on carriers to use intermodal transport? I'm afraid I'm not enough, and that should be the main reason for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39763	Thank you. I conclude the debate, i.e. before the conclusion on behalf of the applicant, the esteemed Drazen Breglec, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39764	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I will try to come out of the framework of a dry debate on compliance with directives, their guidance and try to convince you of the usefulness of this law and give some concrete answers to here in the debate asked questions, so not just form. This proposal also meets the content of the law, addressing the needs identified from the overall transport system, which is in line with the observed and in the European Union, the change in the weight of transport, the movement of freight transport from the roads in the largest possible part and the change in the weight of that burden on other modes of transport, in particular on railways, if it is an alternative to land transport, i.e. maritime or river transport, if it is an alternative to certain directions which are intercontinental or intercontinental. So, this absolutely stemmed from the need, not only from the content, but also from a number of professional debates, round tables that have been conducted in recent years, whose publications have been published in several volumes so far, which are also through this ministry and through NGOs, the Intermodal Promotional Centre "Dunav-Jadran", as part of the European Association for Intermodal Transport conducted throughout the Republic of Croatia. And a series of these professional bases have made it known that, by taking the first step through the new law, we will rewrite and define the obligation to draw up a strategy for which many elements are already defined. And the very short period of 6 months given for the creation of this strategy stems from the reason that the professional basis exists, because this issue as the holder of this professional problem, the resolution ministry, has been dealt with intensively in recent years and because we believe that it is sufficient within a relatively short period of 6 months to bring the need for a strategy for the development of combined transport that will be based on one new industry, which in the Republic of Croatia is not sufficiently developed, which is logistics. So the potential is great, the railroad here we have a kind of huge, enormous role and it has been seen, of course, that this potential, large economic branch that is strengthened by our natural position needs to be encouraged, it needs to be designed, coordinated in a whole way by adopting the strategies defined by this law. As for the objections relating to the railway sector and I will try to convince insufficient investment in rail infrastructure, in the total railway sector, I only have to deny the figures here. Two billion five hundred twenty million kuna from the department's resolution, four hundred and eighty million kunas covering long-term liabilities through the finance ministry. So, a total of about three billion kunas a year. The state budget, society, and if you want on the Government's proposal is being helped, is being invested in the railway sector both in infrastructure and in transport capacity, as well as in this problem that we are talking about today, and this is the combined transport, which is the item of promoting combined transport in the budget of 44 million kuna and is used by HZ Kargo. So, of course, the figures say one thing, individual incidents are quite different and certainly we can't rule them out. They've always been, unfortunately there will be. But surely that, that is the obligation of all of us and I want to make it clear here and not to run away from responsibility and continue to improve that system with the sufficient resources that we see here are huge. Certainly not enough, but it will never be because it is such a simple system that before it is eventually rationalized it will take much more unfortunately time. In the end, why 80 transports, why not 100, why not 60. 80 transports are approximately a bill which should allow the carrier which twice a week implements the previous, i.e. a service fee in a working week to obtain exemption from the payment for which it is paid when registering its motor vehicle. Therefore, in 40 working weeks if we exempt those who are not so intensively working summer and winter, if he twice completed the previous and subsequent transport he would allow, he would be allowed not to pay a fee that is in practice ten to twenty thousand kuna depending on the force of the vehicle, depending on the vehicle for which the compensation is paid. Here, that's a particular reason, and so it's not given this criterion in mind. You mentioned energy efficiency. Here we can absolutely agree that by encouraging ways of changing the mode of transport of the cargo, it will be achieved and boosted and energy efficiency in transport from a simple fact, because four times less energy is needed for transporting the same amount of freight by road if it is transported by rail and even 30 times less if it is transported by river or sea. And this should be kept in mind, because as far as we know and because of the excessive share of pollution resulting from traffic, which is about 35% has the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to withdraw concrete measures, so this law also in this indirect part has its positive consequences. I thank everyone for supporting this law, and I hope that such proposals and such support will be more and more in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39765	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39766	Eighth, Final proposal of the Combined Transport Act, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. number 436. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I vote: Final proposal of the Combined Transport Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. The result? This Proposal for a Combined Transport Act was adopted by the majority of votes, 94 votes in favour and one abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39767	We move to point nine - Final bill on the safety protection of maritime ships and ports, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 449 The draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ivica Perovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39768	I thank the Honorable Vice President, MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The Law on the Safety of Maritime Ships and Ports is one of the last rules in the field of maritime law to be adopted in order to fully comply with the legal acquis of the European Union, and therefore it is proposed that the law be passed by haste procedure. But it is not the only reason why this law is proposed. The security system as we know it today was established on Croatian ships and in ports open to international traffic under the Law on the Security Protection of Commercial Ships and Ports opened for international transport which has been in force since 2004. This law ensured the application of international safety standards for ships and ports as defined by the International Convention on the Safety of Human Life at Sea. Namely, when terrorist attacks in New York and Madrid showed that means of transport could be used as a dangerous weapon in the hands of terrorists under the auspices of the International Maritime Organisation, the creation of an international instrument that would effectively and unequivocally ensure a higher degree of prevention and a faster and more effective reaction to a possible terrorist attack or another illegal act aimed at international navigation. As a result of a diplomatic conference on the safety of ships and ports held in December 2002, new provisions of the International Convention on the Protection of Human Lives at Sea and the International Regulation on the Safety of Ships and Port Areas of ISPS Regulations were adopted in London. The Convention shall apply to ships in international navigation and ports to which such ships agree, and shall provide for the establishment of a safety protection system on board ships and ports which are confirmed by the issuing of appropriate authorisations for ships, i.e. the port declaration. Based on the 2004 law, all Croatian ships and shipmen, as well as all Croatian ports to which the law applies, have introduced a security protection system in due time, set up appropriate services and responsible persons, trained them, conducted the assessments and adopted security plans. Shipowners and ports shall be equipped with appropriate equipment to prevent or prevent or alarm in the event of a security threat. The competent national authorities and institutions, and above all, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure and the Ministry of Interior, shall regularly carry out the tasks and tasks provided for in the law, and above all those relating to the determination of the entry of security protection and handling in cases of security threats. So we are pleased to conclude that a system of security protection has been established on Croatian ships and in Croatian ports at a high world level. As has been known in recent years, ships and sailors have been exposed to a new form of illegal activity known as piracy. This dangerous phenomenon that we thought belonged to some long ago, unfortunately becomes an ever-increasing threat to the modern seaships, precisely on frequent and important international waterways. Croatia's ships were not fortunately victims of the attack, but unfortunately the victims of the pirate attack were more, but unfortunately the victims of the pirate attack were more Croatian sailors. In order to ensure a timely and effective response to a possible pirate attack on a Croatian ship or to provide the necessary assistance in the event of a victim of an attack by a Croatian seaman, the Croatian Government established a headquarters in June this year to coordinate activities in the event of a threat to Croatian shipmen and Croatian sailors in international navigation. The headquarters shall, among other things, have the task of ensuring the coordinated operation of all the competent authorities of the institutions and of interested persons in cases of security threats or dangers to a ship of Croatian state or port in the Republic of Croatia, and in the sense of the application of the Security Protection Act. The new law, which is before you, further strengthens the security system, especially in relation to Croatian ports. In accordance with the relevant regulation of the European Union, the law provides for the possibility of extending the application of the law to ports opened for domestic transport and, according to an assessment of the security protection carried out by the Ministry of the Interior. Furthermore, the obligation to establish a security service in port administrations or in concessionaries of special purpose and to provide for a way of issuing identification documents for persons and vehicles moving in the port area shall be laid down. In addition, the law provides for a more detailed procedure on the occasion of the announcement of the ship's arrival in port, including measures which may be imposed towards the ship, which range from the order for correction of the deficiencies to the ban on shipping or the exile from the port. A clearer definition of the role of recognised organisations, the way they are authorised and supervised by their work, and the way in which the activities of the competent authorities are coordinated, as well as communication with the bodies of the European Union and the Member States, is defined. By passing this law, I repeat again, the Croatian maritime legislation in the field of the safety protection of maritime ships and ports is fully aligned with the acquis of the European Union, and the very security system in Croatia is further updated and strengthened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39769	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, Honorable Representative Slavko Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39770	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Maritime, Transport and Liaison Committee at the 36th session held today discussed the Final Proposal of the Law on the Safety of Sea Ships and Ports, as a home working body. The opening statement was given by a representative of the applicant who pointed out that the adoption of this law ensures full harmonisation of the legal system of the Republic of Croatia in the area of safety and the protection of maritime ships and ports with the acquis of the European Union. The provisions of the law are also harmonised with other laws adopted in the meantime, and their effective application is ensured, in particular in defining the procedures and coordination of the competent authorities in Croatia. ... The paper is an extension of the application of laws to ships in national navigation and on the basis of an assessment of the security protection to be carried out by the Ministry of the Interior. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The procedure on the occasion of the announcement of the ship's boarding procedure is the supervision of the work of recognised security organisations. It was noted that due to legal certainty, transparency and transparency in application, it was not in the process of amending and supplementing the applicable law but rather in the adoption of a new comprehensive text of the law. And what is important, the promoter pointed out that this law is most likely the closure of chapter 14 of the transport policy by the end of this year. Without discussion, the Committee proposes to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on the Security Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39771	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. We've got one club, it's on behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative of Gary Capelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39772	Honorable Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So today we have a chance to discuss the proposal for a Safety Protection Act for Maritime Ships and Ports. Today's bill of law therefore provides for the safety protection of maritime ships and ports for shipowners, ports and seamen to raise the level of security protection, as well as the obligations of competent national authorities, institutions in the implementation of this law. In this context, the law therefore prescribes obligations, makes assessments of security protection, and plans for safety protection for Croatian state-owned ships and ports in the Republic of Croatia. The level of security protection is equally prescribed in the manner set out in the International Regulation on the safety of ships and port areas and defined in the jurisdiction of certain national authorities and their cooperation mechanisms. Therefore, as the new law ensures full compliance with the regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council on the safety protection of ships and port operational areas, and with the Port Security Directive, the law therefore also adopts certain newspapers, and it is more important that the law extends the application of laws to both ships in national navigation and ports in which those ships sail, which have so far been the case for ports of national importance only, is now passed on to ports of county importance and to ships, thus to national navigation, where the scope of enlargement is determined according to the Implementing Security Check. It is therefore clear to define the role of recognised organisations, the way they are authorised, the supervision of their work and other definitions that are in law and set. In addition to that law, it provides for the obligation to issue and bear identification codes for persons and vehicles held in the port area. The law also lays down more precise definitions of the communication chain in cases of a security threat. In addition, the provisions of the law also comply with the provisions of other laws, and in particular the maritime code and the Data Securitisation Act. The adoption of this law shall therefore ensure full harmonisation of the legal system of the Republic of Croatia in the field of the safety of maritime vessels and ports with the acquis of the European Union. Furthermore, the provisions of the law are harmonised with other laws adopted in the meantime and its more effective application is ensured mainly by the definition of procedures and the coordination of competent authorities. Therefore, as it is about harmonising Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union, as well as the obligations of the Republic of Croatia as a party to the International Convention on the Safety of Human Life at Sea to bring national legislation into line with that legal instrument, the Croatian Democratic Community's club sees no reason why this proposal would not be adopted by an urgent procedure and gives full support to this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39773	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39774	Ninth, Final Proposal for the Safety Protection Act for Maritime Ships and Ports, Emergency Procedure, P.Z.E. Number 449. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted, State Secretary Mr Ivica Perovic. Here you go. Explanation of the proposal of the Committee on Legislatives to the amendment to Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39775	Dear Mr. President, MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts all amendments to the Legislative Committee to the Final Proposal for a Law on the Security Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39776	Thank you very much. From 1 to 8 all amendments to the Committee have been accepted. It puts the final draft law on the safety protection of maritime ships and ports to the vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result, thank you. This Law on the Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports was adopted by the majority of 94 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and nothing against along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39777	We move to the 10th item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the parties to the North Atlantic Data Security Treaty, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 411. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Drazen Bosnjakovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39778	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. We have before us the Act of Confirmation of the Agreement between the parties to the North Atlantic Data Security Treaty. The membership in the Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty was an external and security priority achieved by the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the North Atlantic Treaty. After joining NATO, the Republic of Croatia is expected to join a number of international agreements that constitute a legal gain of NATO, which is also related to the implementation of internal legal procedures in the next period. The Republic of Croatia will meet the internal legal requirements for the application of its provisions governing the protection of data generated and exchanged in the context of activities arising from NATO membership, thus creating a legal framework for the cooperation that the Republic of Croatia is carrying out in this area with NATO and its Member States. The Republic of Croatia will fulfil the internal conditions for the application of the provisions of the agreement between the parties to the North Atlantic Data Security Treaty which constitute a legal framework for the exchange of classified data between the Republic of Croatia and NATO. That agreement shall mutually protect and store classified data that NATO creates and concessions to Member States. Which Member State shall make available to another Member State in support of NATO programmes, projects or contracts shall ensure that data are classified and kept in accordance with the agreement. It shall be limited to the use of classified data other than for the purposes defined by the North Atlantic Treaty and the decisions and resolutions resulting from the North Atlantic Treaty. The disclosure of data to non-NATO parties without the consent of data owners shall be limited, ensuring the establishment of a national security authority for NATO activities implementing safeguards and security standards ensuring a common level of protection of classified data, carrying out security checks for access to classified Classified Classified Classified Classified Classified Classified Classified Classified Information in the performance of official duties of party nationals. Security of provisions of the agreement, conclusion of other agreements between parties relating to the exchange of classified data. The issue of confirming the agreement and the accession of new parties is being settled. The implementation of this Treaty does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. In view of the nature of the process of confirming international contracts and formally expressing its willingness to be bound by an already concluded Interstate Treaty and the fact that, at this stage of the procedure, it is generally not possible to amend or supplement the text of the International Treaty, the proposal for a law is proposed to be discussed and adopted by an urgent procedure, uniting first and second readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39779	The Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System. I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives, Mr. Representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39780	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of an Agreement between the parties to the North Atlantic Data Security Treaty. After joining NATO, the Republic of Croatia should accept and access a number of international agreements that constitute a legal gain for NATO. By confirming that agreement between the parties to the North Atlantic Treaty, Croatia will meet the internal legal requirements for the application of its provisions governing the protection of data produced and exchanged in the context of activities arising from NATO membership, thus creating a legal framework for the cooperation that the Republic of Croatia is carrying out in this area with NATO and its members. The agreement protects and preserves classified data that NATO creates and concessions Member States. It is limited to the use of classified data other than for the purposes laid down in the North Atlantic Treaty, decisions and resolutions resulting from the North Atlantic Treaty, to ensure the establishment of a national security authority for NATO activities implementing safeguards and safety standards ensuring a common level of protection of classified data through the implementation of security checks. As the Republic of Croatia became a full member of NATO on 1 April 2009, it is necessary to adopt the Law on the Confirmation of that Agreement in order to enter into force against the Republic of Croatia as well. Once again, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption and validation of the Agreement between the parties to the North Atlantic Data Security Treaty.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39781	Thank you. The HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39782	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of the debate, we would like to say that by adopting this law, the Republic of Croatia as a member of NATO makes a new logical step in the area of data security, which exceeds the national frameworks. Recently, it is expected that as a new NATO member, new documents resulting from the legal gain of the North Atlantic Treaty parties will be obtained for consideration and confirmation. Through foreign security policy, Croatia recognised the importance of NATO membership for reasons that small countries increase the ability and preservation of national security through NATO membership. Also, NATO membership is a complementary membership in the European Union. They would also remind that there is no other European system of common security that would provide such guarantees as that of NATO. The Republic of Croatia signed a similar agreement with the European Union in 2006. From 2007 to today, a full set of legal and sub-legislative regulations governing the area of information security, i.e. the confidentiality of data and security checks have been adopted at national level by the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the National Security Council. How familiar we are with implementation at national level on this basis, and I believe it will take some time. In the old members of NATO and the European Union, it would take us about 3 to 5 years for this matter to live systematically at national level. In the text of the agreement in question, we see nothing that could possibly be imposed on us, and further obliges the Republic of Croatia, which is not binding on other members of the NATO alliance. We therefore consider this document a formal framework for cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the parties to the North Atlantic Treaty. We also hope that the implementation of that set of national rules so far will help our institutions to facilitate and implement the provisions of the agreement in question. We believe that through the practical operationalisation of the provisions of the agreement, the building of a common security and stable environment is also being done. Therefore, from the above mentioned club of the Croatian Peasants' Party supports the bold text of the agreement, i.e. the contract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39783	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39784	We're moving to 10. The final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Data Security Treaty is an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 411, the Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law to confirm the Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Data Security Treaty. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This bill was adopted unanimously by 96 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39785	We're going to the next point. - Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on the mutual protection of classified data, with the final proposal of the law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 412, the Proposer is Government. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. Does the State Secretary at the Justice Department want it? Yeah. Drazen Bošnjaković, additional explanation of the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39786	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This law confirms the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on the mutual protection of classified data in order to make its provisions within the meaning of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. On 17 March 2009, a contract was signed between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on the mutual protection of classified data which creates a legal framework in the relations of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Estonia and lays down rules for the mutual protection of classified data relating to all future cooperation contracts and classified contracts concluded by the Contracting Parties, which contain or include classified data. The Treaty establishes a legal framework for ensuring the protection of classified data that are common or is exchanged between Contracting Parties, lays down equivalent degrees of secrecy, obligations relating to national measures for the protection of classified data, determines the competent authorities for the implementation of the contract, the mechanisms for the transfer of classified data, as well as the handling of classified data. Specific provisions on classified contracts are contained, the way in which visits and meetings of experts are achieved is arranged, followed by actions in the event of security violations, as well as the question of the costs incurred in the implementation of the contract. In view of the nature of the procedure, the confirmation of international contracts which the state and formally express its willingness to be bound by an international contract, as well as the fact that these stages of the procedure can in general not change or supplement, the text of the international contract, the proposal of the law is proposed to be adopted by means of an urgent procedure uniting first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39787	Thank you. The committees? I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives Mr Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39788	Here is also the proposal for a law on the confirmation of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on mutual protection of classified data, one in a series of contracts that the Republic of Croatia will sign with individual countries on the basis of the need for international exchange of information or material marked by one law of established degrees of secrecy. The proposed contract was signed in Zagreb on 17 March 2009. That contract creates a legal framework in the relations of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Estonia and establishes rules for mutual protection of classified data. The Treaty is an important mechanism for the achievement of information security protection and for the protection of classified data exchanged between the two countries. The contract shall define and coordinate a whole range of terms, procedures and competences such as degrees of secrecy, national security authorities, protection measures and access to classified data. Furthermore, the process of destroying classified data, classified contracts and visits is being determined, issues of security injury, cost and dispute resolution are being addressed. The law found that the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Estonia must be confirmed by the Croatian Parliament. This is why the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of this law and the confirmation of that contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39789	Thank you. Mr. Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39790	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the very beginning, we would like to say that by adopting this law, the Republic of Croatia will create a legal framework for establishing rules for mutual protection of classified data with the Republic of Estonia. In this way, it will take a new positive step in the area of security issues beyond the national frameworks, with previously confirmed similar agreements with other countries. It is not long before we expect to receive similar contracts with other NATO member states and the European Union for consideration and confirmation. The reasons why we support Croatia's text in question through foreign and security policy recognises the important role of international security and mutual trust both with countries and not so close to the environment that are members of the NATO Alliance and of the European Union, or with which we have satisfactory external and political relations. The subject text of the contract is written without imposing interest and will by some of the parties and we also consider it a formal legal framework for cooperation between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Croatia on the basis of which interests will develop and coordinate and strengthen cooperation between the two countries. Following this, we hope that this will facilitate the work of our competent institutions with partners from the Republic of Estonia in particular on issues related to the accuracy of concepts and degrees of secrecy which are the subject of contracts, obligations and on national measures for the protection of classified data, mechanisms for the transfer of classified data, treatment of classified data, the way in which visits and meetings of experts are carried out, as well as the handling in the event of a breach of security and other issues. The Croatian Peasant Party Club supports the proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on the mutual protection of classified data with the final proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39791	Thank you. Individual debate Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39792	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Based on the National Plan for the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union for 2008 during 2007 and 2008 a series of legal and sub-legislative regulations have been adopted which are governed in a unique and comprehensive manner by an area of information security, thus establishing a basis for establishing professional standards for adequate regulation of the protection of classified data both internally and internationally. This need for an international exchange of information classified or marked under national legislation by one of the laws of defined degrees of secrecy stems from close foreign-political relations between states and an increased need for mutual and coordinated action to address modern, mainly security issues that often go beyond national frameworks with their complexity and comprehensiveness. The Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on the mutual protection of classified data signed in Zagreb on 17 March 2009 established a legal basis for ensuring the protection of classified data produced or exchanged between the Contracting Parties whether this is a matter of establishing the same meaning of degrees of secrecy, obligations concerning national measures for the protection of classified data or the determination of competent authorities for the implementation of contracts, transfer mechanisms and treatment of classified data, arrangements for visits and meetings of experts and procedures in the event of breach of security as well as issues of costs incurred in the implementation of contracts. For this reason, since the Croatian Parliament confirms contracts showing the formal consent of the Republic of Croatia to be bound by this treaty, I support the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on the mutual protection of classified data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39793	Thank you. Mr. Agent Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39794	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. On 17 March this year, a contract was signed in Zagreb between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on the mutual protection of classified data which creates a legal framework for relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Estonia and lays down rules for the mutual protection of classified data relating to all future cooperation contracts and classified contracts concluded by the Contracting Parties containing or including classified data. This law confirms the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on the mutual protection of classified data in order to implement it within the meaning of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The need for an international exchange of information or material classified or marked by national legislation is in principle an expression of close foreign-political relations between countries and, on the other hand, the increased need for mutual and coordinated action to address modern security problems that often exceed national frameworks with their exchanges and complexity. The international exchange and protection of classified data is also covered by certain laws governing certain areas in the work of the state administration, such as the Law on the Security Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia and the like. In accordance with the national plan for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union for 2008, a full package of legal and sub-legislative rules has been adopted which regulates in a unique and comprehensive manner the area of information security such as the Data Security Act, the Information Security Act, the Security Checks Act, the Information Security Measures Regulation, the Safety Standards Regulation, the Data Safety Standards Regulation, the Organisation Standards Regulation, the Information System Security Management and the Standards Regulations of Business Cooperation. The adoption of those rules has created a legal basis and professional standards have been established for the proper complete regulation of the protection of classified data both internally and internationally. For all of this above, I will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39795	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39796	11. The final draft law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on the mutual protection of classified data was an emergency procedure, P.Z. 412, the Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on the mutual protection of classified data. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you, the score. This Act of Confirmation of the Treaty was adopted unanimously by 95 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39797	We are going to the next item - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 424 The Proposer is Government. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate carried out by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. Proposer representative, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, Mate Raboteg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39798	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. The proposed law regulates a different way of exercising the right to the nutrition of military persons, civil servants and deputies at the service of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. We have prescribed under the current Act of Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia that persons employed, civil servants and passengers in the Armed Forces during the service have the right to free lunch or cash compensation for a warm meal. I would like to remind you that the Government of the Republic of Croatia founded the Platter-service Trade Company in 2005 to carry out, among other things, food preparation and provision of food services for the needs of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, through which these rights were then exercised by the basis of the applicable law. However, now according to this law, the applicable law currently exercises the right to eat, so on a free diet it is currently achieving around 20,000 members of the Armed Forces. According to the new model, these rights are partly reduced, so we have provided that handbooks, or voluntary handbooks, cadets and active military personnel, civil servants and subsistences are assigned to the service in the Commandments and Armed Forces units have the right to a free meal. The right to a free meal also has all categories of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia during military exercises. However, the right to a free meal would not have employees in the administrative department and this would include the Chief Staff of Armed Forces, the Croatian Military School, as well as active military personnel deployed at the Ministry of Defence and also outside the Armed Forces. So somewhere in total about 1,500 would have no right to a free meal. These amendments are in fact one of the austerity measures under the implementation of the anti-recession measures and will be achieved at an annual level of savings of 15 million kuna under the proposed law. As you can see, the restrictions apply only to the administrative part, in the Chief Staff of Armed Forces, the Croatian Military School at the Ministry of Defence, but also with the exception if their employees participate in military exercises, then they are not covered by the provision. Here's how much would be on the side of the proposer in terms of the reasons for the changes we're proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39799	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The defense committee? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Ante Kotromanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39800	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Fellow representatives. A few words on these amendments and additions to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. So, these amendments and additions to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, with a final proposal, so many times before, we have been changing and supplementing this law, the Ministry of Defence plans to save about 15 million kunas on active military personnel, officials, tenants working at the Croatian Military School, the Croatian Army Chief Staff, the Ministry of Defence by thinking of abolishing a warm meal that has so far been paid by the Ministry of Defence. I'll say it's good and nice that the Department of Defense plans to save some funds while we're in this... the economic crisis and, according to the Ministry of Defence, these changes are one of the austerity measures under the implementation of the anti-recession measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But in a situation where we're running out of hundreds of millions in Podravka, HEP, when we're having an affair with the Trucks, these people who are left without a free meal must feel miserable. That's what we know and I've talked to some people. One meal costs about 33 kuna. The estimates are approximately, we've heard this here on the left and right, however, that in public procurement only the Republic of Croatia takes about 7.8 billion kuna somewhere. I know it's a practice in NATO countries that these levels of the same people themselves carry their own food costs in this way, and that's what I'm saying is perfectly fine, but I'm afraid this will be detimulative for those officers who think they're going to advance towards the Ministry of Defence and the Chief Staff. A free meal is one way to attract quality staff in the service, and we know well all together that we have quality personnel problems. I'm not going to talk a lot about soldiers' salaries, officers' salaries, I think we've said it more than once, I'm just going to point out that a soldier's professional has about four thousand kunas a month, that's really not enough though the soldiers are in... Excepted from this part, but I say probably one part of the people and works by the Ministry and these institutions, and not to mention the tenants, what their salary is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think more savings would be achieved, for example. the territorial reconstruction of the Armed Forces and the reduction of the cost of a separate life parallel to that of course, transport. We separate around, we see it in the budget, only the Department of Defence to transport about 85 million kuna, various telephone services, but when I say we call for these anti-recession measures. As an example, I will say that we had at our centre in Sinj that worked long and it was a good national centre that was abolished, about 200 and some officers, officers and now most of these people were transferred to other Croatian troops, for example. To Djakovo. And now that same man must have a separate life, a right to a separate life, he must be paid the costs of transport. I think in that context that a little bit more of it looked, a little bit different that could have been saved a lot more than on this free meal itself. And that's why I think that somehow we should have made it a little deeper and better recorded the situation and suggested maybe other austerity measures. I say this, and as we are already in this crisis, which is already known as the main thing that we already know now that the budget for next year is likely to be about 15% lower than today, and probably many of the processes that have begun unfortunately may even be stopped, some will certainly be slowed down due to the lack of funds that the Ministry of Defence simply won't have. I think I'm saying that there was a little bit of a lot to look at here together and see where else can be done, where it can be saved, and it's coming back again, and most of all on this reconstruction of a certain territorial reconstruction and transportation and a separate life where a terrible lot can be saved in the Ministry of Defence itself. I've been looking at those items. I've seen that these are quite the items that burden the Department of Defense. I'm saying, I mean, it's not some kind of special change, and I'm not gonna talk about this too much. The SDP club will be restrained when we vote on these amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39801	Thank you. The HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39802	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, distinguished secretary of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Peasant Party welcomes any legitimate proposal that is in the role of reducing the expenditure of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. We hope that in the preparation of this sensitive proposal there was sufficient wisdom and understanding in the current economic situation, with a view to a quality solution for the Republic of Croatia. Regarding the proposal to amend the law, we also want to highlight some facts, i.e. arguments. We welcome the creation of normative assumptions that active military personnel working in the administrative section of the Chief Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the administrative section of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia are equal to the rights of other civil servants and subsistence. According to HSS's knowledge of the past state officials, the tenants were suspended for a warm meal but the civil servants and subsistence officers working at the MORH level remained in a privileged position compared to their colleagues from other state administration bodies, since they had the possibility to use a free hot meal several years ago. According to our knowledge beside them, the only civil servants and deputies in the Ministry of the Interior and police officers have organized food and compensation for a warm meal. We hope that, in the next period, there will be an attempt to correct the wage relationship in the management part of the MORH between active military personnel and civil servants and subsistence officers. We would like to remind ourselves that in earlier discussions, we have pointed out the problem that for years at the Ministry of Defence in the administrative section, not to think about the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia together in the same business with the exact same burden and obligations of civil servants and tenants, as well as the active military personnel. Nevertheless, the military personnel have a significantly higher salary with the possibility of advances in wages through personal rank, the benefited internship, the recognition of past work, more favourable pensions and severances, paid supplementary health insurance and the release from the obligation to pass a state expert exam. It is important to stress that the same active military personnel in the MRLs, unlike those in the Armed Forces units, are not in charge of material and technical means and equipment, are not responsible for people and combat preparedness and are not subject to additional efforts. It is also known that some of the active military personnel from the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia have never been in units or were very short, but therefore enjoy all the benefits in relation to officials and tenants and their colleagues in units. We would also like to remind you that during the debate on the 2009 Defence Committee with the draft budget, the need to reduce the costs of the inter-urban or inter-city transport of active military personnel, which were created as a result of the reconstruction of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. I also point out Article 181(2) and (3), i.e. the concepts of service times and service activities that may possibly come, lead to difficulties and understanding or differentiation of these concepts. And at the end of our debate, we would like to commend the promoter that the handbooks and cadets have the right to a free diet. Among other things, we consider one of the conditions for attracting and retaining future professional personnel. For all the above reasons, the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39803	Thank you. The HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Mato Biljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39804	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. According to the applicable law, the daily right to a warm meal has about 20,000 members of the Armed Forces somewhere. Amendment to Article 181 amending and saying that active military services, officials and subsistences have free accommodation and organized nutrition during the service of the Armed Forces unless they perform their duties, means in the Commandments of the Armed Forces or have a warm meal on their exercises for free of charge. From that budget that it's somewhere around 1,500 employees, meals a day, that it's somewhere 15 million a year. Something will be saved, but I think it's about time and it's not a recession, it's not a crisis, that people who work at the Department of Defense like they do at the Ministry of Agriculture that shouldn't have different... that we should have each other, means either a warm meal, a free meal or just an organized diet. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also don't see any reason for someone to have free at military schools and to have organised and have to pay for them in civil colleges. I think that the bill is correct and that it will not be at all, that it will not significantly affect the armed forces at all because all soldiers and all members who are in units and in command and all those who carry out their duties mean that they are on exercises, on the ground itself, the last ones are not related to them, but only to people who are in one administrative section. So these are the Croatian Military School, the main headquarters of the armed forces, the Ministry of the Sea and those who are outside the service of the MORH, so for sure there can be no disturbance or combat preparedness, nor will it be some great burden for officers and officers working in that part. And now I say one who works at a military school, one who works at the Department of Defense and at the main headquarters can be treated the same way he does in other ministries, and so do we in the Parliament, and we pay ourselves here. The Croatian Democratic Community Club welcomes it as an anti-recession measure, but the same... the rights of civil servants and substitutes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39805	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Mate Raboteg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39806	Here is a brief final comment on some of the discussions. Therefore, at first sight this measure can be done as a cutting of the standard of active military personnel and civil servants and subsistence workers working in the administrative section of the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces. However, I must remind myself that the Ministry of Defence and the Government had previously made significant moves in increasing the standard of living and the motivation of the staff to work in the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces and in general, not only in the administrative part, but in general in the armed forces, so we brought, if you remember last year, a regulation on pay coefficients as well as a rule on salary supplements and could be talked about around 15% to 20% salary increases, which would have been very positive and something not made in other state services. However, we must also say that this is not the only austerity measure we are carrying out at the Ministry of Defence. You must know that this year we had two rebalances and we had a cut-off of the Ministry of Defence's financial plan of around 500 million kuna, and then you can assume that we were also implementing other austerity measures. This is just one example, or one of our continuous moves, and if I were to say, we would not have significantly compromised our key programs, equipment and modernisation. Therefore, I would like to appease those MPs who think that, with this measure, we will demote the interests, i.e. reduce the interests, that is to say, to demote potential employees in the Ministry of Defence and the armed forces to join the service. We have implemented other austerity measures such as personal cars, mobiles and what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has prescribed at its level, just trying to provide funds for key activities within the armed forces, it is training, it is equipment, modernisation etc. Of course, when we talk about some waste in large amounts on other sides, I must say that we, too, at the Ministry of Defence, are doing as much as possible to increase the transparency of public procurement. And, of course, if there were any failures, then there are appropriate mechanisms that recognize and sanction it, but for our part, of course, we work in the first place to ensure that all procurement procedures are in accordance with the law and that jobs are concluded which are therefore primarily transparently managed, and on the other hand, and on the most favourable terms. So I think that we are only consistent with this move in this policy of saving at unnecessary costs, and we are also in line with practice in other public services, as well as in practice in other countries and in practice, here as mentioned here, and in the NATO Alliance, and in all those who were at school outside, in all the military, you could see that food is paid, etc., not only guests but also officers, local etc. I don't think this, despite everything that's going on in a restrictive manner, has been so negatively echoed in the armed forces, that before we gave priority to people who are actually operating on the ground, and I think this is one of the good measures in the sequence that were taken on the savings plan in these recession times.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39807	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39808	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Service of Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, number P.Z. JE 424, the Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result, thank you. This bill was adopted by a majority of 66 votes in favour, 29 abstentions and 2 votes against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39809	We will also discuss one point - the final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro on the Protection of the Rights of the Croatian Minority in Montenegro and the Montenegrin Minority in the Republic of Croatia, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 427 The Proposer is Government. Amendments until the end of the debate. Who were implemented by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, and the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration Davor Bozinovic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39810	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Let me briefly explain the reasons for the proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Montenegro on the protection of the rights of the Croatian minority in Montenegro and the Montenegrin minority in the Republic of Croatia. So so far, the co-operation between the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro, related to this one, is satisfactory for minority issues, especially after this agreement has been signed which today should be confirmed by the Croatian Parliament, which created one broader range of minority rights and consequently through the budgets of the domicile state. With this agreement, we maintain that minority rights can be further improved from publishing activity of media access, preservation of cultural heritage, etc. During bilateral talks at the highest state level between Croatia and Montenegro, issues of improving the status of the Croatian community in Montenegro were initiated, and a bilateral international contract was proposed. The agreement was signed in Zagreb on 14 January this year, and it actually created a legal framework for the exercise of rights and the preservation and development of the national identities of both minorities. The conclusion of this agreement confirms that national minorities form an integral part of the society and the state in which they live, enrich the country's material and spiritual culture and contribute to the deepening of friendship, cooperation and the improvement of relations between the two countries. Therefore, the law confirms the agreement in order to make its provisions within the meaning of Article 140. The constitution becomes part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia, and thus commits to ensuring freedom of choice for members of the Croatian minority in Montenegro and the Montenegrin minority in the Republic of Croatia, expression of membership to the national minority and the enjoyment of all rights regarding the choice. The right to enjoy non-discrimination as provided for by international documents. The right to protect against any activity that threatens or threatens their survival, the right to express, develop, public display of its own culture and to preserve and protect cultural goods and traditions. The right to preserve national identity and religion, the right to education in the language and letter of the national minority, public and private use of language and letter and information as well as the use of national minority signs and symbols. Protecting equal participation in public affairs, self-organisation and association in order to achieve common interests and to enjoy political and economic freedoms. The Agreement provides for the establishment of an intergovernmental mixed committee to meet at least once a year to monitor the implementation of this Agreement. In order to implement this law, it is not necessary to provide for additional financial resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia in order to create assumptions for the application of the arrangements established and to intensify cooperation between the two countries in the area to which this Agreement relates. In particular, in the interest of facilitating the achievement of Croatia's minority rights in Montenegro and improving their status, it is necessary to create conditions for entry into force as soon as possible. In view of the nature of the process of confirming international contracts to which the State and formally express its willingness to be bound already by the International Treaty, as well as the fact that changes or additions to the text of the International Treaty are not generally possible at this stage of the procedure, this law is proposed to be discussed and adopted by an urgent procedure. The implementation of the law itself in part is the Central Authorities of the State Administration responsible for external affairs, public administration affairs, local and regional, regional self-government, culture, judiciary, science and education, and internal affairs. Dear Mr Vice-President, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, for all of the above reasons, I suggest that the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro on the Protection of the Rights of the Croatian Minority in Montenegro and the Montenegrin Minority in the Republic of Croatia be adopted by an urgent procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39811	Thank you. The committee's reporters? I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39812	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, state secretaries and colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club will support the signing of this agreement from above all that the secretary of state has said. This agreement is certainly against high standards of protection of minority rights in the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia has a high standard of human rights protection for its national minorities and everything the Secretary of State has said we really need to protect and national minorities, our national minorities. Mostly in those countries that came from the former common state. In fact, I have been in Montenegro these days for the days of Ivan Mažuranić, a scientific gathering that is still under way today, where the Joint Assembly of Montenegro and the Croatian Parliament are co-sponsors of these days. As evidenced by an extremely friendly relationship between the two nations that are linked not only to cultural but also to political and friendly connections. Ivan Mažuranić gives the Montenegrins first of all recognition of Ivan Mažuranić as the Croatian bank of the public, a literaryist, the politician who best described Montenegro right now in his "Death Smail-age Cengic". Why am I saying this here when I sign this agreement? Because indeed as the Secretary of State said, the relations and rights of our national minority have been improved compared to several years ago. Our national minority in Montenegro is not numbered. She unfortunately now, according to the last census since 2003, numbers somewhere only 7 thousand Croats who, therefore, are citizens of Montenegro who declare themselves Croats, although according to some analyses around 10,000 are Croats, above all, we all know in Boki Kotarska where the domicillical area of Croatia is. Certainly their status and position to the achievement of Montenegro's independent state above all was difficult. A number of Croats are declared Montenegrin Catholics. The church continues to play a major role in the gathering of cultural and spiritual life in this area, but indeed the state of Montenegro shows more and more interest and cooperation for Croats to remain a national minority, so that it is not easy to change the nationality of which they have all been directed in the last 50 years. We must say that at this point, the Croatian national minority, however small, seems to us, plays a significant role in Montenegro's political life. We also have one representative in Montenegro's Assembly. It belongs to the only political party, which is Croatia's citizens' initiative, which did not go to the polls on its own. She's out in the coalition, but here's a representative. The Croats succeeded in the local elections in Tivt, where our largest group of Croats has won as many as 3 seats. I am saying all of this for the reasons why this agreement should be supported, and also because it is simply for them to be able to act on cultural, cultural and traditional heritage, so that they can also act politically in any event that the funds are necessary. So far, the state of Montenegro has allocated small resources to the work of the small Croatian community and would not have really survived if it had not been for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, i.e. the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Culture, which supports all cultural actions primarily to preserve cultural, national and linguistic identity. They now have a magazine "Croatian Messenger" that comes out two months later that monitors the events in this Croatian community, but it is a great incentive for them and they expect real help from their country of origin. In talks with associations, there are several who are primarily cultural associations, not political, but cultural ones who gather Croats in this area. In Montenegro, too, they simply expect Montenegro to assume its obligations by signing this agreement. They are particularly pleased that this mixed group is appointed to monitor what happens after the signing of this Agreement and whether the protection of the rights of both minorities under this Agreement is fully taking place. And this mixed committee, I hope that, during a certain period, when this agreement that we are here to fully implement today, we will give consent to it, or ratify it, that those rights that are expected of the state of Montenegro will also be realised. I must point out that we only see what the ratio between what the Croatian state is doing for the Montenegrin minority. I am advice for the National Minorities for the needs of society and different associations of Montenegrins in Croatia issues more than 800,000. And if we add to this what is the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports, then it is just over a million kunas a year, and almost the same number, even slightly less Montenegrins in Croatia according to the latest census in Croatia. Here, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39813	Thank you. SDP advocates' club Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39814	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club supports the adoption of the Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro on the protection of the rights of the Croatian minority in Montenegro and the Montenegrin minority in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, for many years now when the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities was passed here in the Croatian Parliament, all the rights that should have and have Montenegrins in the Republic of Croatia were guaranteed. That is why bringing this confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro to protect our minority in Montenegro is of great importance to us. What the colleague said on behalf of the SDP club who had the opportunity to be there, and also a few of us who are from the parliamentary group of Croatian-Montenegro Parliamentarians' friendships, we have met these problems and will not be pretentious to say that it is exactly and that we are giving meaning that they are not just formal friendships, that they are only so satisfied with the form but therefore from such direct cooperation, because we were there, and they came here once, it seems to me even twice, if it was not the initiator of adopting this proposal, then surely it has accelerated the adoption of such a bill. I will especially apostrophe, speaking on behalf of the SDP club, a bit of a sad fact that Croats in Montenegro are dying. And that number that the colleague said were Croats pleading as Montenegrin Catholics. But that's because they don't feel strong enough or brave enough to just express, preserve and develop their national identity their culturally linguistic and religious identity. Therefore, this bill is also the beginning but also the guarantee that we, like Croatia, will help in this sense the Croats in Montenegro. But it also assumes all obligations that are not at all questionable to protect and Montenegrins in Croatia. They need them so much less, and as much as Croatia spends, I would dare say here on behalf of the club still very untransparently when helping Croats in neighbouring countries, and that is not Montenegro. So we must finally be aware that the Croats who live with us in neighbouring countries that once made up the common land do not only live at one point, who often have those who apply here at an address like in Makarska. They live in both Vojvodina and Montenegro, and in Herzegovina. But they don't only live in one place. So help here something a little bit more generous that it won't be any burden, and even in these times of crisis for our budget, it will mean a lot to them, almost survival. In what conditions they live and preserve our identity, it's truly an earthquake to see in Kotor, guarding our tradition of Boskelean sailors, our Boskelean navy. They live in very difficult conditions. They know how to secure and preserve our heritage from their own resources. Likewise, the church, the Catholic Church in Montenegro, does not have enough resources. We cannot now rely on Christian solidarity instead of church. I think Croatia could contribute to something a little bit more, I say that some are a little bit more taken away and these are added. Noting once again I say not only do Croats live in Herzegovina, there are also in Montenegro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39815	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Ivan Bagaraic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39816	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, on behalf of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia and as representative of the 11th electoral unit, I must show my satisfaction here with this agreement that will certainly improve Croatia's relationship with its own national minority of Montenegrins who I believe is really good but also improve Montenegro's relationship with the Croatian national minority in Montenegro and also strengthen and establish an even better relationship between Montenegro and Croatia. So according to Montenegro's statistical institute, 60% of the almost cultural treasure of Montenegro is said to be in Croatian hands or in Croatian heritage. It is a truly phenomenal phenomenon and I agree with my colleague Anticevic that it is indeed a phenomenon of one perhaps in the world that such a numerically small part of a nation has so much wealth. So, what a great legacy and what a fortune it is. And in fact, the reason for this is either that or that the Croatian language is there regardless of the dissatisfaction of our national minority in Montenegro, and when you talk to these people, then they bring you a lot of problems alive from those banal, disapproval of certain rooms, disapproval of rooms for their functioning, etc. But yet in Montenegro, the Croatian language is the official language, the Croatian people are literally a constituent people, etc. Croatians have made a significant contribution to Montenegro's independence, and this is also another reason why they can expect, have the right to expect, to have the right to expect, that Croatia too has the right to expect their position to be further advanced in relation to the situation it is now. This agreement will certainly contribute to that. I submit to the discussion of my colleague Ivanka Roksandić, who spoke here and about our representatives of political Croats in Montenegro, about the Croatian citizens' initiative as a political party, as well as about the Croatian National Council, which is in a certain way the Croatian roof institution in Montenegro and who launched certain projects including Radio Dux, which actually ensures that there is one information and a connection between the Croats in Montenegro and the country's mother and Croatia. I think that it should be precise in a statement when we talk about these issues because Croats in Montenegro are not really diaspora, Croats are an indigenous people there and they are a national minority in another country but are in full terms an indigenous people and it is necessary to give them full support not only by this financial or agreement and legal proposal that will be translated into a legal proposal but also by diplomatic and every other level to support them to fight for and for what they are now fighting for, and that they have one place guaranteed in the Montenegrin parliament. They don't have it right now, according to the existing electoral law, it's not yet guaranteed, despite all this, but it's done seriously, and there's a lot of reason for that to happen and for the promises to happen. Therefore, here I do not know my representative but also as a man who comes also outside the Republic of Croatia asking and the Secretary of State to support as many Croats outside the Republic of Croatia as possible, in this case the Croats in Montenegro, in order to truly achieve this one representation at the parliamentary level. In the end, I would look back because I have to look back at my colleague Anticevic's exposure and that's why I wasn't correcting her incorrect allegations, but I'm going to try to do it now, but in a transparent way. So it's not true that non-transparent colleagues spend money on some others that others are because there is a competition for those others. There is, therefore, a competition that is being held regularly by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and over a thousand and more projects appear in this contest. One part of these projects goes through, one part doesn't go through. With counterpart Anticevic, I fully agree in one part that the Croatian national minority in particular in Montenegro, but also in other countries, the Croatian national minority from the Croatian state should be more strongly supported, so with more money, with more projects. I agree that Croats in Montenegro are the primary issue of Montenegro as their country as well as the Croatian state. On the other hand, it is absolutely unacceptable now to move this question and compare it with some others no matter who you are and especially do not know how to bring it into the context of applying to how many people have applied and how many people live in Herzegovina, here, there, because these questions I assure you that your colleagues have been resolved and it is more impossible under the Croatian Election Law that one person and that he would like, it was at a symbolic level of this abuse but now that a person would like to vote in Croatia and elsewhere it is now impossible. So, responsibly, I say it's impossible. Why? Because everything is tied to a system in which you are registered in Croatia, so make sure you cannot vote either in Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina or anywhere else. So let's not mix things up here, this is too important. We can discuss this issue in another context, and we can even discuss the redistribution of these funds that you are talking about. I can take responsibility for myself that even when it comes to Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, if we can't find others, they can't be reduced without Croats in Montenegro getting more. Or some other Croats in another European country agree that the support of Croatia's country of origin should be even greater. The reason is precisely that we have raised the issue here and Prime Minister Sanader said right before his withdrawal from the government here if you remember that Croatia will bring a strategy that will systematically address this issue of Croatia's relationship with Croatians in the world. As Croatia in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is very appropriate for me that this ceases to be a political issue in the Croatian Parliament in Bosnia and Herzegovina, rather than for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina to be seen exclusively as all other Croats outside Croatia, as an interest in Croatia, because investment in every Croat community outside the Republic of Croatia is primarily Croatian interest. So I understand relations now in Croatia, understand the economic situation in Croatia, understand it also Croats outside Croatia, and they accept it. Therefore, at this time to do all the items of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia I assure you in these circumstances that there would be no rebellion there, that nothing would happen, that no one would experience it as if I didn't know the denial etc. However, it is in our interest that Croatia is in the interest of maintaining this relationship even if it was once at a symbolic level. Why? Because it's simply our interest, not just a constitutional obligation or I don't know what kind. Instead, take a look at the external trade balance of Croatia at this time with Bosnia and Herzegovina. I assure you she wouldn't be like that. And look at which, I mean, it's ugly to say here how many Croats here who work, who are working in a working relationship for the market in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And it wouldn't be like that if it wasn't for the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina are a constitutive people, they should remain, and you, too, colleagues Anticevic and I should do everything possible to make them truly, because that is also your interest, conditionally said to your parties and ours, that is the general Croatian interest. And the interest of Croats in Montenegro of course will certainly be improved and supported by this already state agreement, which I once again support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39817	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39818	Oh, here's a short replica of my colleague Bagaric. Speaking of what difficulties the Croats face in Montenegro have said and something you say is a basic space for work. So I have to say here I may have forgotten this in my presentation on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government of Montenegro has committed the House of Seamen building in Kotor, that the matter is done right now in these good things that have been happening since the signing of this agreement. And this entire House of Seamen, which is located in the very center of the town of Kotora, where the most, except in Tivt, at this moment, Croatians will be used exclusively for the premises of consulates, reading rooms and libraries of Croatia, all associations of Croats and the National Council, which also operates in Montenegro. And another building in Tivt is, as far as I know, in preparation to resolve this relationship between the Government of Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of Croatia which would also be, it is the former House of Culture built by Croats, using the same thing and giving the Republic of Croatia exclusively for use for the Croatian national minority.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39819	Replica reply, Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39820	I thank my colleague Ivanka, who has actually completed one piece of what we have all been saying and has actually confirmed that one persistent effort can result. So all that's happened now, that year last year was only certain that it might happen, for example. But on the other hand, my colleague, I think that even, it's good that it happened, but I don't think we can settle for it, but I can't be satisfied with the Croats in Montenegro because they have any more claims, let's say we have a Croatian home downstairs in Goodness or I don't know where else. If that's it, then that's fine. But therefore many more questions are contrary to all that we have spoken nicely and positively and believe that these interstate agreements will be settled. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39821	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the basis of public service pay and the Proposal for a Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures and then of those tens in a unified discussion of those laws, the financing agreement of Croatia and pre-accession assistance, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-30-0.u39822	13. The final draft law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro on the protection of the rights of the Croatian minority in Montenegro and the Montenegrin minority in the Republic of Croatia was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 427, the Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirming an Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro on the Protection of the Rights of the Croatian Minority in Montenegro and the Montenegrin Minority in the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This law was adopted by a majority of 98 votes for and 1 abstention, nothing against.
