ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29384	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed MPs and MPs. Here in short, you have before you these amendments to these three laws, the Law on spatial planning and construction, the Law on the municipal economy and the Law on social promotional housing. It is a technical amendment, i.e. the harmonisation of the law with the Law on local, regional, or regional self-government, and in order to continue and after the local isolates the uninterrupted work of the body of the units of local self-government, so that the Law on Local Self-Government is abolished by county, city and municipal headships, it is necessary to carry out these technical coordinations, in order to ensure that these units function uninterruptedly and in order to transfer certain powers to the new authorities. It will now be directly elected mayors, i.e. in the county districts of the mayors. In this respect, all three laws have been subject to the compliance of the law with these laws. The law shall enter into force from the day of the vote, as already in line with the amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government adopted by this Parliament at the session of 13 March. Here's the short one. As a rule, nothing has changed. Some of the potentially small things in the law we've added to the spatial arrangement. In fact, we noticed one mistake in the article in making plans, so the "captain" was added, so some people think it's a feller. No, because by accident in the basic law, the word was omitted, and we decided yesterday on the Committee on Spatial Regulation to discuss it. Here, so much for these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29385	Thank you very much. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Legislative Committee, the chairman of the committee, Mr Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29386	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee at the 52nd session held on 17 March 2009 discussed all the three draft laws, under which the debate was united. Therefore, on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Spatial Planning or Construction, on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Communist Economy and on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Encouragement, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 10 March 2009. The Committee on Legislatives supports the adoption of these laws and does not object to the proposal of the Proposer to adopt them by an urgent procedure and to the text of the final proposals, the Committee on Legislatives has no objections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29387	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, President of the Committee, Mr. Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29388	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to present to you a report on the draft law amending the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction with the Final Proposal of the Law which takes place in an urgent procedure, first and second reading under number 291 of debates today in the Croatian Parliament. At the 14th session held on 18 March 2008, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law amending the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 10 March 2009, with a proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as the home working body. In its opening statement, the Commission pointed out that the proposed amendments to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction provided for its compliance with the Law on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government in such a way as to transfer certain rights and powers which, under the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, were in the jurisdiction of the county, city or municipal headship to the jurisdiction of the mayor, mayor, head of the municipality, or representative body of the unit of local self-government. It is mentioned regarding the provisions of this law which regulate the competence to carry out certain tasks in relation to the establishment of the Office for Spatial Planning of Countys, or the City of Zagreb, the establishment of a final proposal for a spatial plan, the appointment of a committee for the assessment of the architectural performance of an idea project, and the operation of property management of a local and regional unit, i.e. regional self-government until the establishment of the Real Estate Management Fund. In the debate on the Committee, the adoption of this law is supported and the provision of Article 3 is considered. The final draft law amending paragraph 1 in Article 95 in such a way as to consider the final proposal for a spatial plan, the report on the public debate and the opinion referred to in Article 94 of the new law and the establishment of the final proposal for a spatial plan from the competence of the headship, the units of local self-government or the city of Zagreb were transferred to the authorities of the mayor, mayor or mayor of the municipality. In the light of the provisions of Article 95 of the current Law on the Proposer, an additional clarification has been requested concerning the eligibility of the mayor’s guidance in Article 3 of the proposed amendments. It is also proposed that the competent Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction on the adoption of this law draw up a guideline for units of local and regional, or regional self-government related to the changed competences of their representative, executive bodies. It is also an international proposal to draw up such a guideline by the Central Administration Office for all the laws that will now be passed in order to comply with the Law on Local and Regional, or Regional Self-Government. It has been assessed to ensure that those laws are implemented more effectively and more effectively. In this respect, the importance of continuing education is also highlighted regarding the implementation of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction in Local and Regional Regional Self-Government Units. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29389	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government. The chairman of the Committee, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29390	The Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary of State, co-workers and colleagues. At the session held on 18 March, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government discussed all three proposals of this law. And now let me not read this introductory part of all the three reports you have received on the benches, what is most significant, therefore, in the entire debate raised these doubts about the criteria for the distribution of the executive powers of the present headship between the directly elected head and the representative body. Accordingly, the Committee unanimously established a whole series of amendments, so I will now read only the amendments to these three laws. Just as the Committee noted that the text of all laws included the text of the proposed law of fellow Seks, which in the meantime had been changed to the session on Friday, and the Committee also laid down the amendment to the last article in all these laws, which is the issue of the entry into force of these laws, which is now in line with the third amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government and in line with what the Croatian Parliament adopted at the meeting last Friday. So let me just, therefore, not read the opening argument but read the amendments to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction with the Final Bill of Laws. It is therefore proposed to amend Article 1 to change the words "the mayor of Zagreb" instead of the words "the parish, or the town hall". The proposed amendment proposes that when the founder of the Institute for Spatial Planning of the County, i.e. the city of Zagreb, the founding rights are exercised by the mayor, i.e. the mayor of Zagreb. In Article 5, also in Article 345, the words are carried out by the headship of the local self-government unit in its area to replace the words, "is carried out by the municipal chief, mayor, or mayor of the city of Zagreb". The same thing, therefore, the executive power which was now in the headship and the headship had executive powers, is conferred on the executive body, the future executive body and is not assigned to the representative body because the committee therefore considered that the executive powers were conferred on the representative body. And Amendment 3 to Article 6 is, therefore, the same amendment that we have given to all the laws, which is that, in Article 6 behind the word "city of Zagreb", deletes the point, places an end and adds the words "...and so far the municipal, city and county heads continue to work until they enter into office of the municipal chief, mayor and mayor elected in the direct elections.", therefore, it is an amendment that we have adopted to the text of the Law on Local Self-Government and adopted on Friday in this House. And so he is, now consistently following the text in all these laws. Because as the promoter has also said, the purpose of these three laws, namely all 17 laws, is to comply with the Law on Local Self-Government. So since this law has changed in the meantime here we now agree with the Law on Local Self-Government as it writes today, is it? The proposal for a law on the municipal economy also laid down several amendments unanimously. On Article 2, to replace the representative body in an appropriate fall by the municipal chief, mayor and mayor of the city of Zagreb. So again, we go after the executive powers to be left to the executive body and not to be transferred to the representative body. Amendment 2 to Article 6 to replace the representative body again in the corresponding fall, therefore, the municipal, directly elected municipal chief and mayor, i.e. the mayor of the city of Zagreb. And on Article 9, we re-establish, therefore, the amendment that is consistent with the applicable text of the law on local, regional (regional) self-government. We only have one amendment to the Law on Social Encouragement, which is an amendment which, therefore, we agree on Article 2 of the entry into force, so what we voted on Friday. The Committee proposes that if these amendments are adopted, the Croatian Parliament will pass these three laws. That conclusion was unanimously adopted by the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29391	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Zastavnik Zvonimir Mršić. ... Okay. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29392	It's about encouraging housing on behalf of the club. It is also necessary to amend several provisions relating to encouraging housing building, based on an incentive to amend the Law on Local Self-Government. In any event, the HDZ Representatives Club supports this because this is all a very logical solution and what is most important to point out is that, in point 3 of Article 23, the conditions, criteria and procedures for determining the order of the housing championship in accordance with the conditions laid down in Articles 21 and 22 of this Law are determined by the units instead of the unit's headship by the local self-government executive body, depending on local needs and opportunities. But of course according to the order of the championship that determines local self-government according to which order the agency sells apartments. In terms of the very function of HDZ law, the HDZ Representatives Club supports all the proposed amendments and suggests that they be adopted as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29393	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29394	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. As Parliamentarians, we have once again been brought into a very unpleasant position. In fact, we have been preparing a legal framework for direct elections for three, four years. However, we have allowed ourselves to be put into a situation that 7, 8 weeks before local and regional elections we define the responsibilities of mayors, mayors, mayors and representative bodies. That's not acceptable. That's the way it works for every conviction. Which is the worst colleagues and colleagues, these are not the last laws we're going to get on the bench in connection with clearly this matter. That's the worst. So, they haven't seen the light of day yet. The logic of the transfer of jurisdiction is not clear to us. We have received a very modest explanation, the logic of certain ministries we do not know whether certain ministries have brought their views into line either. The simple line of thought applied here is not familiar. My colleagues and colleagues, the termology is not consistent. One ministry talks about the mayor's mayor, the other ministry about the executive body, one ministry talks about the council, the other one talks about the representative body. I really have to stop here. If the termology is not harmonised, then do we not have the right to doubt that jurisdiction is also inadequately divided between the representative body and the executive body, whether there is any real agreement and coordination at all. I don't think this kind of work deserves a single word anymore, but with this, we must definitely stop our colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29395	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. It's Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29396	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Under these three laws, the first introductory note is that it is indeed a shame that it took so long for the government to propose to the Croatian Parliament the harmonisation of a large number of laws that will be of great importance from June 1st after the second round of elections for local self-government. And it's normal that when you work fast and in a big crowd that there can always be mistakes that, for example, at the time of preparation, you wouldn't have done that if we had enough time. I have five objections to these laws. So the law on spatial planning and construction. Article 2 relating to Article 38 of the current headships shall be given to the mayors in the production, so as to verify the production of spatial plans to institutions, counties and the City of Zagreb. I think it is one decision that is not short-term but long-term, and that a decision on who will develop spatial plans for regional self-government should indeed not be in the leadership's jurisdiction, but a representative body with the repeated argument that it is not a one-time, long-term decision. I don't see any reason why a representative body would be deprived of the right to decide who, whether they will have an office, whether this institution that already exists is going to make plans or whether the leader is going to give it to someone else. This is, therefore, not about the material decision of the executive, but about me, the decision that should be in the power of the representative body. Article 3 relating to Article 95 shall refer to the establishment of a draft final proposal for a spatial plan and a report on the public debate. The spatial plans, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen of the State Secretary, their timely or untimely adoption, their amendments and the measures available for land, whether it is a building land, whether it is agricultural land, whether it is state or private land. I believe that, from the first stage, from the moment the final proposal for a spatial plan was set out, as well as reports on the public debate carried out should be in the jurisdiction of the representative body. This is, in my opinion, especially because we will have a first mandate of the relationship of the directly elected head and representative body with no previous experience in the state, probably with a large or larger number of cases where there will be cohabitations and, for the start of at least in the first term, I believe that this should be in the jurisdiction of the representative body. I don't need to convince you that spatial plans, their production, not making, adopting, not adopting, and everything about it is a big and common place of corruption. Article 4 relating to Article 108 shall refer to the selection of the commission in order to assess whether the solution offered is architecturally acceptable in terms of issuing the local authorisation. I also believe that it is a permanent body, I do not believe that a new commission is being formed for each particular case, so it is a permanent body in a unit of local or regional self-government, appointing or selecting that commission should also, in my opinion, be in the jurisdiction of the representative body, not the head. I repeat, because it is a permanent body that has a major impact on the issue of local permits. My proposal is also on the verge of reducing the place and areas in which corruption can occur. Community economy law, two remarks. Article 3(a) refers to Article 11 concerning a decision on the calling or publication of a decision on the collection of concessions tenders. The decision to collect the concession, the concession bids shall include both the terms and the rules of the game. Therefore, it is not only formal in the sense that it will decide to collect concession bids, but rather to establish in that decision the conditions that the tenderers must satisfy as well as all other elements which later have an important impact on the choice. In view of this, but also of the fact that the issue of having assets through concessions is increasing year by year, I believe it should be the authority of the representative body. For if this is not the authority of the representative body, which is the final decision on the award of the concession, the representative body will find itself in one situation to decide on the grant of the concession on the basis of the conditions laid down in the decision established by the head and thus we narrow down the room for manoeuvre. Therefore, already the head, mayor or mayor in the decision to collect offers, criteria and provisions and decisions, in fact, made it impossible for the representative body to influence the content of the procedure, offers, conditions that the offerer must have. And the decision to grant a concession is within the jurisdiction of the representative body and under this law. Therefore, I believe that the representative body must be at the beginning of the decision, the technical work in the head's jurisdiction and the final decision on the jurisdiction of the representative body. Second, my comments refer to Article 5, that is, Article 15 of the Law, which again refers to the publication of a decision in the collection of tenders for municipal affairs. So again the same argument. If the local self-government unit, through the publication of the decision of certain municipal affairs, and until now and following a new proposal, is responsible for making a final decision on the confidence of these transactions, and in the decision, some may be eliminated by regulation of the terms and conditions, and some, I consider that the publication of the decision, i.e. the decision to collect tenders for the performance of municipal affairs, should be in the jurisdiction of the representative body, not the head. So, at first and finally, there is a representative body, and all the actions that take place between them, as the law also provides in the jurisdiction of the mayor, the mayors here have less authority because of the communal affairs. I believe that such interventions would allow these two laws, especially because of the new model that we have introduced in the Republic of Croatia since 17 May, to reduce the points of possible corruption, to allow representative bodies to gain experience in such important businesses, and to educate and force leaders in such seemingly formal decisions not to have them in the mechanisms, in their hands when they can, in the first stage of the preceding decisions, create benefits for corrupt actions, and we witness every day that it has the most on the spatial agendas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29397	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Dubravko Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29398	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I wouldn't agree with what Mr. Lesar is talking about because if it were like Mr. Lesar says, it shouldn't have changed the law, then a really direct choice of mayors, mayors and mayors wouldn't have had full meaning. We've just been working out for a long time, talking in this House about how the best model of the law would choose, and by that logic, if all these powers that were proposed here in all three of these bill proposals were passed on to the representative body, then the mayor wouldn't have any sense of being directly chosen. He assumes responsibility, has the mayor's office headed by the mayor with deputies and with the management department's leaders, which was mostly the headship so far, and they take responsibility. If this were transferred to a representative body, means city council, municipal council, county assembly that they have responsibility and what are the sanctions? The mayor may be called to account, scheduled a referendum, replaced, and I do not see what sanctions are given to the city council, the municipal council and the county council. I therefore believe that if the mayor is an executive and the mayor's office is the mayor's office, then the mayor's executive power cannot be brought down to the representative's authority. It seems logical then that the mayor, the mayor and the mayor and his office take responsibility. In this way, the role of selecting the mayor directly would be completely erased and there would be no debates that had taken place in the last three, four, five years would not have had their full justification. Also, I believe that the city council, the municipal council, the county council are not an operational body, there are also 25, 29, 35, 45 members somewhere. What is the operational body that can meet every week or every 15 days and have most of the need to make decisions. I think you should consider that. These amendments, proposed by the Committee on Local Administration and Self-Government, should also be considered. As for also the entry into force we discussed last week and had an amendment I believe that the entry into force of these laws should also be brought into line with the duration of the work of the chieftains, which means the day of entry into office of the new mayor, the mayor, the mayor. Otherwise, there'll be an interregnum, maybe a little confusion. Therefore, it is necessary that so far the headships do their work in a way that they have done until now until the entry into force of the new mayor, the mayor, the mayor, because not only can it come to a second round but it can reach a third round theoretically. So I'd like to ask the Proposer to consider what I'm talking about, I'm talking from a pure experience without theorizing. As for the Law on Encouraged Housing, which made it clear that I welcome this law and its amendments, which took place twice in 2007, which allowed cities or municipalities to establish their agencies for socially encouraged housing that we in Dubrovnik and did, we set up our own social-encouraged housing agency as a non-profit legal organisation and it is the holder of all investment businesses. These changes are really good, constructive and have enabled units of local administrations and self-government to be more independent as well as faster and more effective in achieving a social-enhancing housing programme in the field of local self-government units. And according to these amendments and additions, we see that it is necessary to comply with the provisions of the Law on socially encouraged housing that we are doing today. So, these provisions exclude municipal heads, city heads and county heads as holders of executive authority in units of local and regional self-government, and now they're just mayors, mayors and mayors. In that sense, I would ask the legislator to comply with these suggestions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29399	Thank you. We have two replicas. Mr. Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29400	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President. Comrade Shuica, when I was in this House in favour of the direct election of the mayor, mayor and mayor, the vast majority of the ruling in the previous term found that, and proposed laws, not only to advocate such laws, would introduce local sheriffs with too many powers. Of the 125 powers that we now give to the mayors, mayors and mayors, I've only had five problems so far, and I have one more reserve, so six total. In the case of concessions, concessions, spatial plans and communal economy. ... To argue that such elected leaders, because of these five objections that I have made so far, would have been ficus without authority, are obviously irresponsible because you did not listen to the arguments that I have made why I believe that concessions, spatial plans and communal affairs should be authorised by representative bodies in the first and final stages. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the evaluation you gave me based on my argument that I'm standing up for leaders without authority doesn't really stand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29401	Thank you. Mrs. Dubravka Shuica's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29402	Yes, we had a long discussion because the position had to be matured on the direct election of the mayor, the mayor, the mayor under one. Two, people are elected directly, persons directly because people, or voters, believe in them and want to believe them, and they will not be chosen by prejudged that they will be corrupt at the outset, so they will not be able to make such decisions. And that's why I think they don't need a correction in the representative body because they're going to be directly elected and they're going to have full legitimacy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29403	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29404	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, you said that the proposing should consider these amendments to the Committee on Local Self-Government. I believe that the proposer should accept them throughout this series of laws, given that this is still a technical change where the present word or word is "cityal headship" which was yesterday and the discussion on the committee itself replaces the word "Principal, Mayor or Mayor". It is therefore the original powers of the executive authority, i.e. the mayor, the mayor and the mayor, and they assume the role of the former headship. Normally, no representative body can be placed in such businesses, so the municipal council, the city council, the county assembly. I hope that here as a majority party you will all support these amendments to the Committee on Local Self-Government because it really is about direct elections, it is about something that needs to be brought to life right now and it is not about the experiment that the representatives of certain proposings said yesterday that there is one time to prepare to see how they will revive the direct selection of local self-government leaders themselves. So, I think that everywhere in this whole series and a package of these laws, the word "city chiefship" should be replaced with the word "Government Mayor, Mayor or Mayor". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29405	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29406	Thank you. Mr. President of the Parliament. Well, here, I will briefly repeat in my debate what I said when I voted for the emergency procedure for these 17 laws in the area of local, regional and regional self-government, because this emergency procedure and the debate that we are having today is another evidence of irresponsibility, nerada, intrication of the ministers of this government and underestimation of local self-government. We cannot discuss these laws today without calling for responsibility for all ministers and their associates who have not been able to comply with the laws we have today in the debate with the amended Law on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government. In this way, we were forced into a kind of legislative stampede. We today have laws that have been forced into our emergency procedure, and that there is rarely any expert analysis, which can be expected of them, is not rarely consulted by the Association of Cities or the Community of County, and in some cases when elections are passed, we will have problems because of the legal solutions that we will bring quickly and we will not solve real problems of citizens, but we will solve the problems that arise as a result of such a legislative clamper of the Croatian government. It's amazing that one government is sending to procedure 17 laws that are even unambiguously completely out of line. So shouldn't all ministers have been gathered before the law was brought into line and agreed on whether the executive body, the competent body, the representative body would be written? It's incomprehensible, for example. that the Law on Spatial Planning does not mention the Mayor of the City of Zagreb at all, and thus virtually makes it impossible for him to carry out the activity from the part concerning the City of Zagreb. Of course, it's not meant to be done, but it's an example of the clamperai, it's an example of irresponsible work, impeccableness, incompetence, and I think it should be repeated almost every law that we adopt today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29407	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29408	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So, before us there are amendments and additions to another package of laws that, and before us is primarily the one relating to the spatial construction arrangement. I believe that he is one of the most significant jobs that, according to the applicable law in 2007, was in the section of the headship, county, cities and municipalities, and the City of Zagreb. Why am I actually saying that he's one of the most significant? So because so far, according to the current law of the headship, that is, the county, the cities, the municipalities, were that in their domain, they had as their first creation and the adoption of spatial plans. We know what a spatial plan means for each and every small municipality without talking about the county, etc. It's a fundamental development document, and it's all actually based on it. I start with... etc. These programmes of overall development, strategies etc. What we actually have ahead of us and what we are discussing here today is primarily, I see with some dilemmas, because it will bring with it a new law, namely that the direct election of mayors, mayors, mayors, etc. I think when it comes to the fact that tomorrow one mayor or mayor, or mayor, will be the one who will also be the one who has done certain tasks, i.e. the assessment of the architectural success of an idea project or real estate management business, etc. I need you to take responsibility along with the services. What my colleague Shuica said actually comes down to logic and logic. Well, we can't say that we'd like to go to direct elections and then say that the mayor shouldn't have certain powers, that is, to take over certain jobs. He takes these matters exclusively with a certain responsibility and with the primary trust that the citizens will give him, and instead of the chieftainships that have made certain decisions together with him, that is, members of the headship that have been in charge of certain tasks we have the heads, we have services that will solve and operate certain things. And jobs that are very important. And I don't think even problems should be created in this respect. To bring them out at least not in the way I've heard about it, because I don't think there's going to be any major and more significant changes in the relationship between the legislative and executive authorities. Because the mayor also remains bound every 6 months to make certain reports, not certain decisions, or tasks taken by the executive authority, will not be able to make them without a representative body. I mean, and that's clear. Thus, here the mayor does not take over everything, and here part of the work takes over to himself and the congregation, or the city council that he has as such. It's not exactly the way I see some people look and welcome everyone to the knife, but it doesn't need to be a skeptic, so it was an emergency for all of us to hold direct elections for mayors, mayors and mayors. So they're here and now all we have to do is perform. Similarly, what is very important is that the operationalisation of all these tasks that will stand before the mayor and which, to the services or the presidents, make it clear to the knowledge and specific expertise. Well, the headmasters are on to professional people. They are located at the head of certain administrative departments in cities or if the single administration department is in municipalities etc. We can't say now that it won't be in the domain of the profession again, or that it'll be unprofessional. The answer to some of the questions is also in me in one sentence. So we can't allow the mayor, the mayor or the mayor to be elected directly by the citizens, so if we give our citizen our confidence that we want to turn him into a ficus, that we want to turn him into a man who won't have some independence, who won't, with that independence, take responsibility for his vision of a certain development. The point is that he, as a person together with the leaders, is to be a visionary of something, and yet according to the spatial plan, clearly what is the basic document of development. Also in line with the overall development programme, labour development strategy, municipalities, etc. So, of course, I will support the urgency of passing this law, because it clearly gives rise to a basic one, which is to bring this Law on Spatial Planning, the municipal economy and others into line with the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. And these are actually fundamental laws that have arranged the entire system of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia. So I say again, the urgency of this should be supported, and I think eventually when we talk about something, which is that after 17. 5. We must support this urgency for reasons, because units of local self-government must not experience any stopping in their development and will depend again clearly on why we cannot, we must not allow it because it will depend on how long the elections will take. The election can be 17th, and more can be extended. And no one has the right to stop the development process, or projects that begin in the local, local self-government unit. Independently about it is therefore, now, whether we are referring to the county, the city, the municipality, the city of Zagreb etc.. So certain jobs and certain projects will start before the elections, elections will pass but projects should continue. No one can stop life. We have no right to stop him. So, especially not development. So I'm going to support the adoption of all these laws, a package of laws in an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29409	Thank you. We have a replica of Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29410	Dear fellow mayors, mayors, mayors would indeed be ficuses, even without a secretary and official car, as most of them have, if these amendments are not adopted by the Committee on Local Self-Government. So, these amendments, these committees, show first and foremost that by putting everything in place, a whole series of packages of laws have shown indeed their unseriousness and political responsibility. Therefore, the proposings themselves, two months before the election, question the elections themselves and bring this House to an urgent procedure, therefore, without a broad debate involving everyone, they also adopt the laws of urgency. I'm particularly referring to the state administration's office here. And just remember, the election law itself, and Secretary of State Antun Paralic, who proposed that the law enter into force on 18 May. So, the day after the election. I believe that the ruling party, as well as the opposition, must demand his responsibility. And if it hadn't been for the amendment of Vice President-in-Office of the Parliament, I don't think anything that would have happened on May 17th would have been valid at all and that my election would have been passed by law and beyond legal law. The election results would not be valid because the law would enter into force on 18 May. And that same man receives a fat salary as a secretary of state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29411	Thank you. Replication response, Mr. Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29412	You as a former mayor, you are now ex and what will become of you in the future will decide already someone else, not you. But I don't want to talk about it. I've listened very carefully. I'd like you to listen to me, too. You as a former mayor, I actually expected you to answer something that was in line with what we talked about, so, content, topic. I mean, I actually didn't understand what you're trying to say, some kind of cars, so the vice president. I mean, I understand that, and I'm glad that you commended Mr. Vice President Shakespeare, let's say that I didn't expect it from you, but I don't know what cars in cities have to do with this, or I don't know what to do with the subject that we've been talking about. The amendments you speak of are also before us and will be decided by this High House. If you were to say something, if you really wanted to say something, then you had to know that the public debate has not been going on for a year. And if it wasn't for no one to force the incoglite, if it was for you, it wasn't for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29413	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Mr. Petar Selem, called a meeting of the Committee today at 13 o'clock at the Ivan Kukuljevic Hall with three agenda points. Thank you. We're moving on. Mr. Representative Vedran Rozic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29414	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As the debate is united for these three points, I would like to refer a little bit to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Communist Economy and on Social Encouragement. Since the Law on local and regional (regional) self-government has been abolished by municipal, urban and county authorities and their powers are entrusted directly to elected municipal heads, mayors and mayors, it is necessary to comply with the provisions of the Law on the municipal economy with the above-mentioned amendments of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government in such a way that certain rights and powers under the Law on the Community Economy have been conferred in the jurisdiction of the city or municipal headships in the jurisdiction of the mayor and municipal chief, or representative body of the units of local self-government. Since this Law on the municipal economy may be one of the most important laws since it regulates practically the largest part of the jobs in the city's administration, because through it it regulates both the functioning and its own drive, the issuing of concessions, the public service contracts, the financing of construction, so this is one of the most important laws. I might refer to point 21. In point 21, where it is said that the supplier of municipal services is obliged to obtain the prior consent of the headship of the local self-government unit in the field of supplying the service, in any change of price. I might make a suggestion about one sensitivity to this topic because tariffs may be determined, perhaps, that previous consent be transferred to the representative body. Because, however, representatives of all parliamentary parties in the city will participate in the representative body, and practically there could be the best and best discussions on these prices of all services. Because the prices of these utility services are most sensitive when discussing any city or county. I would also, in paragraph 2 of this Act, mean the representative body of self-government is required to be manifest within the time limit, there was a proposal for 15 days, but could be put on an appropriate deadline to be 30 days, and to normally meet representative bodies to discuss these tariffs, these communal services in cities. Because as far as social housing law is concerned. Here we had a debate yesterday when perhaps a prolonging or stopping payment of annual interest on families who are currently losing their jobs in this recession to stop paying within a year. However, I would refer to this Law on Encouragement Building, which entered into force on 19 December 2001, gave very good results, and I think that law has given incentives to all counties and cities. Because according to this one data, it means from 2001 until today when we sum up the number of apartments built in the territory of the Republic of Croatia we come up with more than 4 and a half thousand built apartments in relation to the relationship of this law. So, this law has shown its full justification, and I believe that in these times of crisis that local self-government units will make even more efforts to, together with the agency that is with the government and who runs all these affairs, find even faster land for the construction of these apartments and, in particular, ensure that young people get to the apartment as quickly as possible, and most importantly, these apartments are also the cheapest. Because as we know the average price is somewhere over 1100 euros, interest rates are much more favourable than in banks, and I believe that in these times local self-government units will turn even more to solve these problems. Because right now, it's also important to point out that right now in this year there are 470 new apartments in construction based on this law. And here I am finally giving normal support to these amendments to the law on these three points.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29415	Thank you. We have a replica, Mr. Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29416	Dear fellow, we can now talk about the regularity of these laws here all morning and afternoon, but these laws show, so the whole package of laws and not just these laws, but everything that goes in an emergency procedure and what we discussed yesterday shows an exceptional irresponsibility of the motionor. And fellow Members, since the same proposal put us in such an uninvited position, regardless of what the direct elections for mayors, mayors and mayors have been announced, this very proposal was made by the mayor, i.e. the executive authority or executive body, as they call mayor, mayor and mayor in some places would indeed be a ficus. So I urge you to respect all these amendments to the Committee on Local Self-Government, and on who will be the future, and who will be the former we will see 17.5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29417	Thank you. Answer Mr. Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29418	Well, here's a colleague of Vinkovic, we're going to have these changes practically these laws just legally regulate where it was previously set for city heads or county councils. In practice, it is only taxed on the basis of the new electoral law that points are changed in the articles of the law itself. I mean, it doesn't change here, these whole laws don't change. So, to amend these laws, there is time for parliamentary debates to make comments and proposals for amending the laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29419	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Kresimir Gulic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29420	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So I'm going to take a few words to look back at this bill, i.e. This package of three laws that we're about to change. When we talk about the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors here's the first time we have such a direct choice I have to say that I think they should have a much greater responsibility and obligations than they've ever had before. We now had a choice per list, so we chose the mayor, the mayor and the mayor within those lists, so there were various coalitions. Now we finally have voters pick out the ones they think are the best. I think that if they're already directly elected that we should then get in any case even greater powers, but not that of getting only greater powers, I think that's how they get much greater responsibilities. I must say that even now we who perform these duties in cities and municipalities have the same great responsibilities. And now the municipal chieftains manage their property, all of their property and property, and the headship president is always the mayor or mayor or mayor, so we now have a certain and great responsibility. In my view, too, in some of these articles, I agree that some powers should be given to representative bodies, so to the councils of cities and county congregations. But I think that wherever my headship changes, instead of the headship, it should mean putting the mayor, the mayor or the mayor. Because I'm saying, like I said before, we pick directly. So, they have their weight unlike before when they were elected from the list. So I'm saying, here's what I think we should see whether it's possible to hold on exactly to have powers. Many times in our debates, and here by the clubs I've heard, and it was in the media that here are the mayors, the mayors are sort of sheriffs who decide everything. So we're always called when spatial plans are made, and code here are the spatial plans by units of local self-government that don't have a procedure. They have all the procedures and it's from previous discussions, public debates, public hearings, and then we have to get all the consent from the county offices. So they have to be consistent with county spatial plans, so of all state offices and ministries. So I'm saying that with this proposal, these amendments to the law will continue to retain the obligations we have but certainly and powers, but we will have much greater responsibility. And I don't think we should be called anymore because citizens will now, in direct elections, choose the ones they think are the best. I would also agree with my colleague, Rosic, who suggested that here, in Article 21, which says that the representative body, so far it has been a headship, so now it goes to a representative body, a unit of local self-government, is required to manifest itself within 15 days of the day of the application for obtaining a previous disagreement. I also think that yesterday on the board we talked about that deadline should be extended to at least 30 days because the representative body I don't think can be called together, especially when it comes to cities, it's a slightly bigger problem to call every 15 days, the call procedure etc., so I think it would be a good thing to extend it to 30 days. As for the encouraging housing, there was this conversation, yesterday there was, we had a debate about interest on loans. Well, I think we should give our pains in local self-governments anyway, because in a way, here's the recession that got us. I think it's the same for us in our municipalities and cities to give them the opportunity to encourage housing, so here I am, in my community right now, going to reduce municipal contributions, especially for young families to allow them to have cheaper construction, so that in this way, here is the unit of local self-government that allows them. As for some other incentive measures, here I was in my municipality just walking with one decision that was taken quite well by the entrepreneurs, which is that here I am to all entrepreneurs and craftsmen in the area of my community that we abolished the municipal compensation. I think that, here's an example, these are certain financial resources that the municipality has given up, but I think it's a good example that these entrepreneurs also feel that they have some kind of support from their local self-government. And here, I suggest the same thing that I did to myself in Bistra that for all those who don't give God because of the recession they get fired end up at the employment office to help them see, these citizens are free from paying communal fees, freeing them from payments and grave taxes and even subsidizing them, i.e. To free them from payments and water, according to utility companies to subsidize certain differences that they have here, thus facilitating the difficult situation they will be in because of the cancellation they have received because of this recession. Here, and to conclude, for all of this above, along with these suggestions that I have said here, which were said yesterday on the board that these deadlines are a little bit prolonged along with the suggestions that here are also told by my colleague Shuice to try wherever the chieftains are to place the municipal chiefs, mayors and mayors. In any case, I will support these amendments, this final bill on amendments to the Law on the Communist Economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29421	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29422	Well, thank you, Mr. President. Here, just a colleague I'd like to remind you of the time when we were actually making a decision on direct elections. That really supported all the parties, the support was especially the media. In order for the same media to start talking about exactly what your colleague said a few days later, local sheriff. So either we give authority or we don't give authority. The headship was, come on, in that long practice since '93. The headship was quite convenient because, well, it was a good idea, but it had to be said to the public that he wouldn't be the mayor now, the mayor, I'm the mayor. He must have a strong expert team around him and I do not believe that only his proposals, his decisions will go away because this expert team will have a significant impact on everything that is going to happen. Clearly, and there will be in some sense, I must say the division of responsibility, clearly depending on who and how they will be able to form this expert team. If we transfer everything to the council, it will be, or if we move a series of things to the council, it will be very difficult to function. Well, it's not a problem for smaller towns, the municipalities to gather councils. It goes, you can do it day and night. But look at the county. Let's say, the county that contains the islands, which is in its composition, here we go, give every moment of the council, and then man can come to the council this afternoon, and the next day by ferry back. It's very complicated, very expensive, and that's how it should be taken care of. So, if we've warned ourselves that we're going to give the mayors, the mayors, the mayors, the mayors, the mayors more power, clearly from that, and more responsibility, then we have to believe that. I think it's going to work, and today it has been, I mean, today there are cases where someone respects, doesn't respect, but it's not our problem anymore. It will be evaluated by voters, and finally by the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29423	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Kresimir Gulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29424	Well, I agree with my colleague Markovanovic. It is true that there have been a lot of criticism as to why we do not have a choice, a direct choice of mayors, mayors and mayors, and now that the law has been passed, here are the questions why so many powers to the mayors, mayors and mayors. So, that's already said, we'll get power and we'll get much more responsibility than we've ever had before, and when we talk about some powers, I might look back a little bit there in the way that the mayor, the mayor or the mayor can be replaced, so he says there in law that after 6 months after the election, it can be asked for a referendum in which 10% of the voter list must be collected, but nowhere is it said what happens to that representative body that goes every year to seek the trust of the mayor and mayor. Does he have any responsibility if, at the first referendum, the chief or mayor is re-elected? So to me, if someone insists on a shift, then he should be responsible tomorrow if his shift didn't work, that is. if his proposal has not been passed in the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29425	Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29426	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I have the impression that we are having some late or unnecessary debates about something that has been said long ago, concluded, voted, adopted, and treated forward. But human nature seems to be such that it is never satisfied, and that is not what our old man said, it has not yet been born who has pleased the world so that some discussions last and will probably always last, regardless of the conclusions that we make. Of course, I mean the debate whether it's a good thing we have a direct choice of mayors, mayors, mayors or not, but we've already spoken about it once. I think there's too much debate about it. Of course, doubts remain whether someone who is directly elected will gain some different power than he has had so far to abuse or work for the greater good. Of course, these doubts always remain but these doubts do not have their end, we can always express our doubts about someone. However, it will not be easy for those who exercise that executive authority. I'm using the opportunity to say that the executive bodies, the representative bodies in the people, don't sound very recognizable. Somehow, anywhere the executive body writes that we have a mayor, mayor or mayor but a colleague at the debate Mrduljas warned us that this is based on another law and that these possibilities of changing as functional and clearer as possible to the people are simply not legally possible and justified. In this united debate, in practice of three draft laws, I still have to talk about each of them separately so as not to cause any confusion or to escape me a thought that I would like to especially emphasize. Of course, a lot is now collected to explain, but in the end, people need to know that all these laws are passed in order to bring the existing regulations in line with the new practice that we are introducing with the next local elections. In any case, the amendments adopted by this law significantly speed up the process of implementing new procedures that should be done in such a way as to bring about an accelerated development, as they will be made easier to decide. We know from experience and stories if you want to complicate a commission, which is never the end of the commission. So, by reducing the number of participants and giving the greater responsibility and the right to some we have the chance to make things work much better but of course we must ensure the instruments of control that this trust is given not to be misused. In the analysis of the bill, I also established that Article 95 asked the mayor’s reference because it was not logical in relation to the text here, given that the units of local self-government were spoken of, but Mr. Secretary of State informed us that there was actually no failure in this law, in this bill of law, but that there was a failure in one previous one and that it was practically correcting the error of something from before. Due to the large number of changes and additions that are constantly in the laws and consolidated texts that are eventually made here and there to make it easier to get through law-reading as a single kind of tool that facilitates the knowledge and rights of anyone concerned, certainly to support the intensity to continue the practice of giving guidance in this case in particular, in order to make it easier for people in practice to get along. Is this a guideline that should be drawn up by the Central State Office or in this particular case by the Ministry itself, regardless, because it is important that those who implement the laws, who are in charge of continuing everything that is based on the law, have proper and good guidance for work. Otherwise, compared to the amendments and additions to the spatial planning law, there is nothing more important than what could be said because it does not essentially change the laws themselves. When we talk about something else, when we talk about communal arrangement, then we might as well add a few more things. In this case, it is also important to point out, in fact, when the hygiene legislation or legislation that comes into force, that one other law be implemented in the best way, to highlight one proposal from the Association of Cities that we have come to and which we think is worth the attention, which is that the issue of prior consent to the change in the tariffs of services rather than the representative body is entrusted directly to the elected mayors as one alternative proposal or another proposal to entrust to the representative body, but with an extension of the deadline within which it is required to demonstrate the submitted request for obtaining prior consent. In fact, the practice shows that the question of the frequency of meeting the representative body may be questionable. I use the opportunity to point out another one about municipal contributions, i.e. the general municipal economy. In fact, two and one were discussed in a certain way, and I had the opportunity to get a satisfactory answer from Mr. Secretary of State regarding the right to build public garages. How different it is to the public in terms of the right to use or to make use available and who has the right to build such a public garage, so the question of concessions in different types of joint investments, partnerships, I think that the answer was satisfactory and that it was resolved. And with one of those same instructions, we'll be able to solve certain problems. However, there is another question that I would stress is that in terms of the etalan value of the building that has practically not changed since 99th because the municipal contribution refers to one-third of the cubic meter with the proposal to try to discuss, analyze the importance of fixed prices for the whole of Croatia since the circumstances are not equal everywhere. In some places land prices are much higher than in other places, and therefore the possibilities for realisation are less. Of course,... It is reportedly experienced that the price of the municipal contribution is also decreasing because of the reduction and investment, and this is now a question of market response but would certainly be worth assessing whether the target can be different in some places. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as the Law on Encouragement Building is concerned, there could be as much time as possible when all discussions are united in one, because I personally have a lot of experience in designing and large and smaller housing facilities and I think that what is not, of course, the subject of this law, because it is an opportunity for only some things to be highlighted, to have thought about it, that the market in all of Croatia does not function equally and that the cost of construction in different areas of Croatia is not equal and that the conditions of satisfaction in relation to the rule are not equal, but that the results are very positive and that they are increasingly working, especially on islands to preserve the population in that place. I'm in favor of all three bill proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29427	Thank you very much. In 10.48, it was time to report a ten-minute debate under these three laws. Replica, Madam Representative Sunday's Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29428	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. So I actually want to confirm and testify my agreement with Mr. Roshin, who says that at some point in late hours we are discussing some topics. However, the fact is that I have a need to say that exactly the new legislative framework on which this High House is determined is to build the greatest human potential, to draw to the surface what every leader of the unit of local and regional self-government when we talk about the election, the direct selection of the mayors, mayors and mayors, we want definitely the greatest moral authority, intellectual authority as well as the people who are socially capacitated, which means that in one place we get a highly motivated person, with high knowledge and opportunities of teamwork to make the right decisions. In any case, it is already a wide circle, not only of the institutions, not only of the state administration's bodies, but we have heard it through discussions of associations, i.e. the space in civil society that advocates these goals. I must also say that I am sorry, but I am truly sorry as a man, and equally as representatives of the Croatian Parliament when I hear certain epithets, by quotes I am talking, of course, about the ficus, about the sheriff, etc. Because it offends, it really offends those people who just want to build these capacities that I've been talking about, mostly when they're pushing for high goals, when they promote high moral values, as well as public good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29429	Thank you. Replication response, Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29430	Well, that's also one of the reasons why I said to the newly elected mayors, mayors and mayors that it won't be so easy, because those like my colleague Dubravka Shuica, the mayors still have direct responsibility for everything that's wrong, and everything that happens well, it's thought to be the result of everyone's general work. In this case it will be even more unfavourable, for them harder, there is a great burden on their shoulders, because they will always be seen through those doubts that often go through, whether someone abuses their position, whether it suits someone or not. We are witnessing in practice and saying that many of the investments or many of the events that need to happen to the general good are always being read in one negative context. In this case, the executive bodies, regardless of what level the municipalities, cities or counties are at, will be so much more difficult, and I think at the beginning should at least provide some kind of support, not with suspicion, but with understanding of the problems they will have, and even under... new circumstances, regardless of individual abilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29431	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29432	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. What we are discussing here today and what we are going to discuss is how two, three days is likely, 17 laws, but not some laws that we comply with the standards of the European Union and which we are doing the necessary reforms, how we love before us, which we must do first and foremost for our own sake, and speed is no longer important, etc. We are discussing here, and over the great clamper, the irresponsibility of the government, which did not remember when we started and the legislative normative was established, to prepare then all those laws concerning the election of mayors, mayors and representative bodies, so that they are directly linked to this new situation that we will have, which requires a change in the direct election of leaders of units of local and regional self-government. That government didn't even remember. So the question is why and how? Does the government really act like a rasitman orchestra, because the conductor is now under pressure with some other problems. Since not some ministries have remembered, or leaders, ministers to remind the prime minister. He's absolutely right here a colleague who's been talking about it, about the direct responsibility of every minister who hasn't said it and given his ministry the job to do it. And that would then be a package of amendments to the laws and additions on local, regional, regional self-government, city council elections and leaders. But even this isn't the end, we hear that now the government has discovered another law that has to change, and who knows how many more they'll discover and who knows when they'll remember. In fact, it's about the Household Activity Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29433	Please, just one moment. Where are these services?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29434	Same place they were on the Split Riviera, I guess now they're in service, right? Why did you get upset about the paper list? Can I speak? Can you give your colleague some manners?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29435	Please let those who are fit to maintain order at the Assembly and at the gallery. How can we get someone in here and, that's, that's, give me the secretary over here?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29436	So the government reveals now and a whole series of other laws that should have also been changed given the direct choice of leaders. And so the question arises, indeed, how many more of these laws will come out that need to be changed. And which, in this way, is likely to, in a way like this, ignore that this will happen even after the local elections. In fact, and these changes, last, last we had, took place at the State Election Commission intervention, the government wouldn't even remember. And here's what our colleague Shakespeare had to do with the DIP intervention. But it's just those technical things and the problems we're going to encounter. And only the application of these laws, many. Because we see here, even the nomotechnically these changes are now not harmonised, somewhere are executive bodies, somewhere they're, somewhere not clear whether they'll even be doing it by a representative body or head of a local self-government unit, i.e. The mayor or the mayor. Even this was not resolved, namely, the City Association is currently warning, and that is the most important observation, therefore, of the Law on the Communist Economy and this in the Law on Spatial Planning. So far, it has been clear to all of us that the space, or most valuable resources, was not managed by the city council but by the headship. Of course, there are every possible suspicions of corruption in nepotism and a whole series of consequences from such a way of working, that they have caused suspicion in the citizens. Now, and these amendments to the Law on Spatial Planning, we're saying that this job will belong to the councils. Maybe that's not bad. However, that they also know how to decide on the most valuable resources. I personally agree with that. Many leaders who are now in that position, the leaders disagree. It is likely that the interoperability of the work of the council or the congregation slows them down, and even when such jobs sell or buy, it is necessary to do so in any case. However, it is good from larger surfaces and we see that it has especially blasted local self-government just as it has the most valuable resources and who comes to these areas. However, the main problem remains that in the Law on Regional and Local Self-Government, the job was assigned to the mayor after the elections, and the law will be conducted by the head of the local self-government unit, i.e. The mayor, the mayor, or the mayor. And now we're changing the law where we give, we give that power to representative bodies, i.e. the city council or the municipal council. And then what? So already at the beginning we have two laws that are mutually and in the most important things are controversial. But I believe with what I've already pointed out at the outset, with one negligence, the government's schlamper that even, that one incompetence and incompetence, but it's not only that, it's even appropriate to the government. Instead of responding for this reason, Parliament is even benefiting the citizens. You'll wonder how. Then it comes into effect and the state office works, better say the state administration's failure, headed by Mr. Palaric. So then the interpretations will be different and diverse. Of course, about who is where he was positioned after local elections in representative bodies, whether there is a majority that is adequate and consistent and analogue to the central government or what is the colour and identification of the unit leader of local self-government. That's what we've enjoyed so far, and it looks like it's not over yet. In fact, here's an ideal opportunity for a nursery to turn someone's election victory into victory in that state office, and defeat as an alchemist, as a laboratory, that usually works in the office, into victory. And that's something that's dangerous. We here at the beginning must know and it is democracy to know what the rules of the game are. And we don't know them in such the most important laws and the availability of property. What's left of the local self-government units where the irresponsible government hasn't already sold out everything to its loved ones. So, instead of seeing what's to be saved, we all go to the only fair game, after all, it's not us working here as competitors, it's for the citizens. And that deliberately opened up a space like this here, and this was all another thoughtless and ignorant, and here it was deliberately when it comes to the property, it remains an inexplicable situation under such an important authority. Citizens do not want the fate of government in any local self-government, in no local self-government depends on one man sitting at the head of the central state office, because it is ultimately politicised. And if it's up to you to depend on it, if there's any consolation to seek out there, then a man or a man to resolve the situation, to be saved by law, then indeed a man loses his will to be saved in that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29437	Thank you. Two corrections. Mr. Representative Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29438	I would like to correct two incorrect allegations, distinguished counterparts Anticevic-Marinovic. It's not about your co-worker, it's just about the legal obligation to comply with the law with the other law. And logically, we could talk about the schlamper, they don't have how you say it if after the entry into force, that is, the beginning of work of newly elected mayors, municipal mayors and mayors, you realize that we have legal discrepancies in any area. When it is, and logically, it didn't go too soon, because we have an existing mayor under the current system, we have a headship, we have a representative body simply so there isn't any legal uncertainty, no finding, to which it now belongs. It simply went into the final moment of the existing system right before the elections. That makes perfect sense to me. And the second incorrect mandate does not depend on authority in one local self-government unit on the head of the Central State Administration Office and on its decisions, as is known to be the right of appeal, there is an appeal body. Therefore, it was never up to one man, but the government is always the choice of the voter's will, or citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29439	Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29440	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd say that, on several occasions, my colleague Anticevic put some things out incorrectly, but here I see it as her pamphlet rather than something else. Because obviously the election's coming, so I see she doesn't know that some things aren't exactly what they are, so maybe she'll react differently. Namely, you say that it is not clear what will be done by the congregation and by the mayor. I mean, it's like the first basic thing that doesn't fit the truth. Well, it's so clear and crystal clear what he's doing, which is the role of the assembly and what is the role of mayor. Absolutely and you can't say that, the congregation or the council will depend on some central, or central government, as you call it. I mean, that's not true. That can't fit the truth. You can't put a man as a person in the position you put him in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29441	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29442	A colleague violated Article 209. The Rules of Procedure for correcting my exact quote. In fact, I said that with this bill...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29443	You can't do that, so you can't claim that he was correcting your exact quote. Well, independently, you know very well regardless of whose claim is correct or incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29444	Mr. Vice President, I'm giving him the right to an opinion. But no one in this House has the right to facts. Facts are either true or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29445	That's what you're saying. That's what you're saying. Well, you can't... Peace, please! Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, please. Peace, please! Please! Mr. Matkovic and Mrs. Anticevic, please be aware of Parliament's frameworks!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29446	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow representatives, gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here we have three drafts of the law united, so in one with a proposal to bring in an emergency procedure. Therefore, it is about amending the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, on socially encouraged housing and on the municipal economy. Of course, these three laws are closely related to local self-government units, so-called units. regional self-government so that both, pardon all three laws are here on the table without “E”. We've been talking about direct elections for a year and a half. For a year and a half it is known that the elections for executive power will therefore be direct by name and last name. It is also known that local self-government units will include representative bodies, in council municipalities and cities, in the county of the assembly. We've been waiting a year and a half for each other's powers, responsibilities, and rights to each other. Up until two to three months ago, the representative bodies were thought to be in some sense, so the councils in municipalities, cities and congregations in the county would actually be in the sense that someone said here the ficus of the government. However, here I would say at the last minute even though we have a model or in the laws of many European countries how to regulate this relationship between the executive body and the representative body. There used to be some management bodies or whatever it was called. Now the bodies, therefore the executive body, are a relationship in the conduct of so-called duties, powers and rights. Here are the three laws in this area, although there are more areas in the legislation that will also have to be adapted to the new Electoral Law, or reality, the reality that there is a chief and deputy, that there is a mayor and his deputy and mayor and his deputies as executive bodies or executive bodies. The law, the new Electoral Law, so on this direct selection of executive bodies is actually one of the attempts to say in the decentralisation system. But I believe that what is most important is the decentralisation of the state, the deconcentration of power, the demetropolisation remains intact regardless of the powers, rights and duties and municipal councils and the city councils and the county councils as well as the newly elected municipal chiefs, mayors and mayors. I am of the opinion that this matter could have been regulated by law long ago, so I say especially because in Europe with which we align all the chapters and all the laws have long had solutions in relation to the demarcation of powers, rights and duties of representative bodies and executive bodies. We're really bringing this up somehow as someone said here less than two months before this election, and I think there will be more legal proposals that still have to solve some doubts about, so the distinction between what I've been saying between executive bodies and representative bodies in municipalities, cities and counties. It is clear that when I look at the substrategics of these proposed laws, the amendments to the laws can then be seen that however representative bodies will not be as the ficus was spoken, but will have certain rights, obligations, and duties, so it is nevertheless looking at the local environment as to what was said and planned some two to three months ago. So I think I'm going to vote for the proposals of these laws. Of course, with a little delay here on our benches, but it's inevitable that since local elections, or direct elections, we won't give up because it's still progress in democratisation and in implementing at least one small, small step of decentralisation, but I'm saying, that's the main problem of defocusing power, the distribution of money at least on the basis of 60-20-20 versus the state, county and local units. It would be much better to help units of local and regional self-government than these laws needed to conduct these direct elections on 17 May this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29447	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29448	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, there's actually been one thesis going through all morning, a late-onset clamper, etc. But surely it is not a delay, that we are not in a delay. The local elections are just ahead of us on May 17th and there's no talk of any delay. This is a law that we will adopt in an emergency procedure quite safely until the end of the session and this session of the Assembly where clear powers will be transferred from the representative bodies to the leaders of these same units of local self-government and regional self-government, therefore, there is no reason to speak all morning here late, the clamper of the Government, this, what, responsibility. This has nothing to do with facts because these laws will be passed in time and before the local elections themselves and are precisely prescribed and separated powers and representative bodies and leaders of units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29449	Replica, Mr. Representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29450	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Grubisic, I agree with you that there are certain delays, but here we see that colleagues from the ruling party disagree, but what has been evident from all these discussions so far is that the issue of some sort of fictitious position, whether executive, is constantly being highlighted. Let's hope this law solves the issue of ficus, conditionally speaking. And I absolutely support what you said to decentralisation, but in a fiscal sense, and a more quality redistribution of funds would help that so-called. as you say demetropolization, so that especially those of us who are less developed, and the two of us come from the counties that are always changed after this kind of development. One's at the beginning, one's out front. Let us therefore hope that, in accordance with this new Law on Direct Elections, this kind of relationship between the executive and representative authorities and that it will improve democracy in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29451	Thank you. Final review, Secretary of State Davor Snotty. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29452	Thank you very much. Here, I'd like to thank you for this fruitful debate over these laws. We hope to enable them to operate smoothly with local authorities. Thus, by considering all the proposals, the observations made today in this debate, the Proposer decided on the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction with the Final Proposal of the Law to adopt amendments to the Committee on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government. That's the same thing with the Law on the Communist Economy. So, we accept the amendments of the Committee on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government and Amendment Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government to the Law amending the Law on Social and Encouragement. I think we've solved the problem this transparently and we'll continue to function smoothly and we shouldn't get too upset, and the rest is all about the responsibilities of the people who take over and get these jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29453	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29454	We're going to vote on the debated agenda points. The final draft law amending the Law on spatial planning and construction was an emergency procedure for P.Z. number 291. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted these amendments and is not voting on them. They shall become an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Law on spatial planning and construction. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. This law adopted unanimously with 103 votes along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29599	We're going to the next two points we're going to have in a united debate. - Final bill amending the Law on Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 287 and - Final draft law amending the Law on Reconstruction, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 300 Discussions were carried out by the Committees on Law, Local and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Local Self-Government on the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar. The same committee also tabled amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Reconstruction. Proposer representative Stanko Janic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy will further explain these two draft laws. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29600	The Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Honorable Representatives. After this previous debate, here I come with the Proposal to amend the Emergency Procedure Act and this Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar and the Rehabilitation Act which proposes to bring these two laws in line with the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government, or those in which the powers were entrusted to the heads of the county, towns and municipalities. They are now transferred directly to elected municipal commissioners and mayors and mayors. In addition, certain amendments are proposed which are in line with the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration and the Law on the System of State Administration, as since the adoption of the Law on Reconstruction of certain ministries and certain administrations have experienced changes in names, so that this is only no-technically agreed. Here, I suggest that the Croatian Parliament consider these two laws and bring them into the proposed text. Thank you. With the amendments, I thought that after you said so, but amendments to the Committee on Local Self-Government and the Law on the City of Vukovar and the Law on Reconstruction are accepted. He's welcome in this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29601	Thank you very much. The Legislative Committee? The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government? The Development and Reconstruction Committee? I'm opening a debate. SDP advocates' club, Mr. Zavodnik Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29602	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I'm going to talk on behalf of the SDP club about a total package of laws, so all 17 of them, which means we won't talk on behalf of the club anymore, so let me make a point on all 17 laws that are on the agenda today. The SDP Club will support the adoption of these laws and, in particular, if amendments to the Committee on Local Regional Self-Government are adopted for the sole reason, it would indeed be impossible to call elections without the adoption of these laws and after the elections have been made it would be impossible to function in local self-government units. However, we are asking ourselves a serious question in the club and we are asking you a very serious question here in the Parliament, we are asking ourselves a very serious question to the Government of the Republic of Croatia who made this decision, with which provisions of the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government will be harmonised by the laws and which provisions of the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government will continue to be ignored. In fact, in November 2005 we made very significant changes to the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. Let me remind you, that's when we talked about the second step of decentralisation, we talked about the separation of the monotypic model primarily of cities. We've introduced major cities, we've introduced some other powers, etc. And then we said that it was necessary to amend around 35 laws so that the law or powers arising from that law could be used and applied to local self-government units. Since then, no law except the Construction Act has been in line with the Law on local self-government. Too late today because elections could have already been called today, or elections could have been called the day before yesterday. We are discussing 17 laws that are nomotechnically speaking because they change the word "city" to something else and they are essential because they speak of how in the future, to which executive powers will be given in the units of local self-government. So these laws are more than essential for the future relationship of forces within units of local self-government, the relationship of the directly elected head, mayor, mayor, mayor and city council, municipal council or county assembly. We are today bringing and discussing these 17 laws, tomorrow we are going to vote on them and we are not going to leave enough time for people to prepare, to study them at all so that they can run and that citizens can understand what they are even choosing because today, before today, before no candidate is elected by tomorrow for any function in local self-government knows what powers they will have on 18, 20 or 2 June depends on whether they will be elected in the first or second round, let alone whether the citizens know who they choose, whether they choose the local sheriff or choose the local ficus, or whether they choose between. So we saw in the previous debate that some say that the city council will be a ficus, others say it will be the mayor of the ficus. Now the question is who will water who, whether the mayor will water the city council ficus or the city council will water the mayor's ficus, and we could be in a situation where elections have already been called today. The election will be called on April 15th, so there's plenty of time for those who run might run away next week and buy the People's Newspaper or download the National Journal from the Internet and study it. But not the candidates choose themselves, but the citizens choose the candidates. They choose candidates by what these candidates will be able to do, to work, with what resources they have, and then to choose the candidate who will best fit these powers and opportunities they are. If the mayor is a ficus then it can be chosen by beauty or mayoral ficus, then it can be chosen by beauty. If the mayor who has executive powers is then should be, perhaps he should be nice or he should have a good look but he should probably have very much of the ability, knowledge, competence to run, manage the local self-government unit and that he may be mainly in co-habitation with the representative body of the local self-government unit because the largest majority of the local self-government units after the elections will be such that we will have a directly elected head in the first or second round, it is quite no matter but who will have to co-habit with the representative body because he will not have a majority in the municipal council, city council or county assembly. This will be in principle the situation in the Republic of Croatia. And we're going to be discussing the referendum law very soon. Let's prepare to hold our first referendum next year for the recall of the mayor, mayor and mayor. This year probably won't be because it takes 6 months of the election but I assure you that next year for the first time in Croatia we will face a referendum for the recall of the mayor, mayor or mayor. And all of that we bring here is now back to application. ... No, I said I'd talk about all the laws because only once will the SDP club talk about these points. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So we're not gonna talk. ... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So the SDP club is its own.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29603	Please leave it to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29604	If I have to make it clear to them, or you will.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29605	Just keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29606	So someone in the government took a discretionary right to decide on what part of the Law on Local Self-Government will bring these changes into line with which they do not. That's one thing. Secondly, the question arises here why we as a Parliament that adopted a document called the Government of Croatia's Work Programme for the 2008-2011 term. We allow the Government in such a flexible way to violate the explicit provisions of this programme and in this programme write very specific deadlines in a chapter called regional development policy and fiscal decentralisation. What will be done in the 2008-2011 term, so I will remind you. It says that the Regional Development Strategy will be adopted, on 1 May 2008, that the Regional Development Act will be adopted, on 31 December 2008, that a joint team will be set up for the development of this fiscal decentralisation strategy and the Local Self-Government Unit Financing Act, the deadline of 30 June 2008, will be adopted, that the Law on the financing of local self-government units will enter into force 1. 1. In 2009, the 2009 budget will be accepted in fiscal potentials to the next step in decentralisation. The deadline was 1. 1. 2009 in the year, that fiscal decentralisation in the 2009 budget will be provided in a way that increases by 25% of the fiscal decentralisation funds in 2010. 30%, 2011. 35%. The criteria for funding local self-government units and the criteria for the use of those funds by 30 June 2008 were thus said. so we said that we would pass the Law on the financing of local self-government units by 30 September 2008, the start of application will be from the beginning of this year, etc. etc. So we said we'd pass the Law on the municipal economy by September 30, 2008 with the application of 1. 1. In 2009. We did not say that, it was voted in this Croatian Parliament and it is a document called the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2008 programme. - 2011th year. Now, we have 17 laws that completely ignore the government program, which adopted this Croatian Parliament, because someone told the government no, what we suggested here, which we assured you that we would do is old paper today. It's no longer worth it. We're gonna throw away a bone, so let's get them to gnaw around what the mayor's gonna do, what the representative body's gonna do. And they gave us 17 laws that we are now discussing. I hope that the other applicants will also accept the proposal of the Committee on Local Self-Government of that amendment, that what has been in the headship so far becomes in the power of the executive body, i.e. the mayor, mayor and mayor. Because we have already made a big mistake with the Law on Local Self-Government where we have transferred some executive powers to a representative body, so now the representative body will be bringing individual acts, and it will not be responsible for that, because according to the law, the only one who corresponds to the local self-government unit is the mayor, mayor or mayor. The mayor, mayor or mayor shall first and foremost control a representative body who may invite him to attend each session, which shall ask him to answer questions at each session, which shall report twice a year on his work, which may call a referendum on the impeachment of the mayor, mayor and mayor. It is controlled by citizens, who can equally ask him a question, which can also call a referendum, which may have other forms of insubordination, where he must once a year perform a choir of citizens with citizens on a local committee. And who controls the city council? To whom does the city council in one term suit? No one. No one can initiate the impeachment procedure or disbanding the city council, no one can call the councilman to any responsibility, because the council mandate is non-binding to anyone. Therefore, we have given executive powers to a representative body that has neither control nor anyone's answer. It is late after 4 years that citizens say they were not good city councilmen. It's too late, you know a lot has been through. The only reason the city council can be disbanded is if it doesn't adopt the budget. But this city council, too, under the existing law, can adopt a budget that does not correspond to what the mayor has proposed. So, the mayor, the mayor, the mayor doesn't even have the possibility of vetoing such a budget and says O.K. Don't do it all the way I think I'm managing this city and why I got the direct trust of the citizens. So we expected someone to tell us by what criteria the powers of the current headship between the presidential body and the directly elected leader are allocated. We have amendments to the Committee on Local Self-Government, we appeal that they are adopted in at least these 17 laws to make it very clear that what is an executive authority, let it remain responsible for the executive functions of the city, the municipality or the county, and if necessary, we empower the representative body in that control function, in the role of bringing general acts, to bring strategic and development plans, to bring in all kinds of plans, but we must leave room and authority for the directly elected mayor, mayor or mayor to carry out this and to be responsible for implementing these general acts. If we're going to share that the mayor's doing something and some city council, and the mayor's doing everything we can, we're going to be in one complete confusion. Let's not bring ourselves to this situation that within a year we say that the system is not good, because we will be in constant blockade between mayors or representative bodies or mayors or representative bodies in cohabitation systems. Therefore, we accept that these laws are passed, we are extremely concerned, because the government has given up decentralisation, the government has given up everything that has been promised and written in this, and we are particularly concerned that no law on the financing of local self-government units has been passed, so we will choose new leaders, but according to a completely old system, because the Law on the Community Economy has not been passed in full terms, and not as it is now merely unambiguously agreed. And we urge the Government to have urgent instructions in the parliamentary debate at least these two laws, which are the Law on the financing of the municipal economy and the Law on Public Roads, to finally introduce order in the field of public roads, and not to have this mess. And that we have public roads and unpublic roads or unclassified roads like we have today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29607	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr Jerko Rosin and Mr Representative Petar Mlinarić will share the debate. Mr. Representative Petar Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29608	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will say a few words about the renewal of the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Vukovar and its application. The Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar was passed in 2001 and followed in 2005 and 2008. The Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar regulates the incentive measures for the rapid restoration and development of the city of Vukovar and the removal of the consequences of the destruction of buildings and other consequences incurred during the Homeland War. It allowed the city of Vukovar to restore the lives of all citizens, resulting in the creation of positive economic movements in this area after 8 years of application. Based on the indicator of the Croatian Employment Institute, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, and the Association of craftsmen Vukovar, the impact of the incentive measures in question is the following. In the previous four-year period from 2004 to 2008, the number of entrepreneurs increased by 37%. From 234 to 321 entrepreneurs. The number of craftsmen increased by 33%, from 397 to 592 craftsmen. Investments rose from 88 million 517 thousand kuna in 2004 to more than 300 million kuna in 2008. The number of employees increased by 38% from 6000 749 to 10 thousand 936. Unemployment is down from 33.80 to 18.89%. In accordance with these results, the existence and application of the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar has been established. We believe that the harmonisation referred to in the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, which is entrusted directly to the elected mayor, will record further continuity in the creation of a productive environment for the development of the economy, and that this Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar offers even greater opportunities to attract and implement projects that are in the interest and development and renewal of the city of Vukovar. That's why he needs to be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29609	Thank you. Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29610	Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. ... on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, support the proposed Law on Amendments to the Law on Reconstruction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd just like to list a few things that make us think it's in many segments, almost exclusively routine work, applications, some new legal provisions, to laws that have existed so far. In fact, the Law on Reconstruction uses terms that simply do not exist today, so it is in the first row about changes in the name. On the one hand, some of the ministries that previously appeared in the text are no longer present, the otherwise organised government. On the other hand, there is a change of jurisdiction, e.g. The county office for reconstruction is being replaced by the state administration's office in the county. And third parties, it is about applications of new definitions of local self-government units and units of regional self-government so that they can function under the Law on Reconstruction in relation to new obligations that are different from before. The arguments given to amend these articles are quite logical and should not be specifically commented but adopted as proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29611	Thank you. Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29612	Honored Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here's to these amendments to the law I need to remind myself that the consequences of war-related injuries and in the Zadar County were extremely large, human victims of course invaluable and when it comes to material direct war damage it was estimated at around 20 billion kuna. From the very beginning, Zadar County has been systematically working on the reconstruction within its respective responsibilities that have changed over time. Through all kinds of renovations in this area, it means that more than 25 thousand housing facilities have been renovated, over 3 billion kunas spent, of which a significant number of school facilities, a large number of sacral objects, but also infrastructure facilities. The infrastructure was renovated in the area of 25 units of local self-government, meaning six cities and 19 municipalities and through the programmes of the ministries and government is still funded for the restoration of the infrastructure 139 projects of total value 350 million kuna. A significant problem in our area means Zadar County was also a problem of demining where considerable funds were invested so that even recovery programmes could be launched. This experience through reconstruction, through reconstruction we continued to use further means when regulations have been amended but regardless of the required competences if it is done professionally and systematically based on development, planning documents that become and bindingly drawn or set targets and plans have been significantly and realised. I would like to point out this occasion, in connection with the harmonisation of a large number of laws with the new law, with this law, with this Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, the importance of drawing up development strategies, plans and turkeys, that is, their consistency, reality and the implementation of them. When you have quality programs, it means, whether it's multi-annual, annual or strategic, it's less important who has less or more powers, means mayor, mayor, council or assembly. Most units of local and regional self-government are through EU programmes if they wanted to, significantly prepared for this. For example, in the Zadar County area, it means the regional self-government unit, but all its units of local self-government have had the opportunity to do so, and in most cases they took advantage of that possibility. When development planning documents and they are a significant number of mandatory adopted means brought together in partnership, with all partners in units of local and regional self-government they become both binding and all, means for the mayor, the city council but also for the mayor and the county assembly. From funding plans, human potential plans, everyone else. Then it's less important who's going to do it. I certainly support these changes because they relate, not to the quality of planning, but only to comply with this Law on Units of Local and Regional Self-Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29613	Thank you. Mr. Representative Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29614	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam and Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Law on Local and Regional Self-Government was governed by a system of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia in such a way that municipal, city, or county heads were abolished, and their powers were entrusted directly to elected municipal mayors, mayors and mayors. It is therefore necessary to adopt the proposed Law amending the Law on Reconstruction in order to comply with the Law on Local (area) Self-Government. The coordination relates to a total of 13 articles of this Rehabilitation Act, thus Article 17 states a solution which lays down the right to support for repair of damages and the right to support for equipment is provided to the applicant, the ministry, the municipal chief, or the mayor of the city in which the family home or apartment is located, and the Administration for the areas of special state care of the ministry and the competent public defender for confirmation. Here from practice, we have had the truth not often situations that different international organisations are restoring houses. These were mostly lower-degree houses, so first and third categories without the solution being issued. So, only if the houses were restored would they have submitted a request without establishing whether the owner had the right or not to rebuild the same house. Article 20 states: “With the request to repay the funds referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, they must be attached in addition to the evidence prescribed in Article 16 of this Act and proof that the family home, i.e. the apartment, is renovated by own resources, which is proven by the calculation of the own funds invested by the Office of State Administration in the County. At the beginning of the application of the Rehabilitation Act, there were a lot of problems with the return of funds if the owners of the housing units themselves were to rebuild the house or apartment. However, today’s figure of 5710 housing units shows that this is where and where it is easier to realize and realize. Article 34 of the right to rebuild the family homes and apartments of the fourth, fifth or sixth categories of damages as well as the right to support the equipment of those houses and apartments under the provisions of Article 15 of this Act shall be determined by its decision of the Office of State Administration in the County at the request of the beneficiaries of the right to refurbishment. The request shall be submitted through the municipal chief, or mayor of the city in whose territory the family house or apartment both of which are located. So far, a total of 145759 housing units that have been destroyed or damaged through the Homeland War have been restored. I mentioned a number of 5710 housing units on which funds were recovered in the name of the renovation itself. So it's important to stress that so far the total money support has also been given to 34180 owners. These are our categories from first to third and from fourth to sixth categories or degree of damage we have completely restored nearly 50,000 housing units. So far, more than 16 billion kunas have been spent on all of this. So, anyway, very, very big money. Here, I will personally support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29615	Thank you. Mr. Representative Sima Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29616	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. What to say, not be boring, long and not repeat. Very short. Applying the Law on Reconstruction published in “The People’s Newspapers, ” 24/96, 54/96, 87/96. and “National Journal” 57/2000. According to certain provisions of this law, they were placed in the section of the chapters, counties, cities and municipalities. Since the Law on local, regional, or regional self-government has been abolished or the municipal, city and county heads will soon be abolished and their powers entrusted to directly elected mayors, mayors and mayors are needed as we now and make certain articles of the Rehabilitation Act comply with the Law on Local, Or Regional (regional) Self-Government. To implement this law, it is very important to emphasise that so far it is not, no additional funding from the state budget is needed. With this law and the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, we are not only changing the terms but, as I was saying in the introduction, changing the powers as well. The adoption of this law under emergency procedure will ensure the rapid harmonisation of the Law on Reconstruction with the Law on local, regional and regional self-government. And I would also like to point out in the closing sentences that the mayors, mayors and mayors will indeed not by me be ficuses but will have great responsibility but also in the section and description of their jobs mainly in those municipalities where the mayors are volunteers which I recommend to them to change their acts and to be professionals if not him, then at least the municipal heads. Headships are also abolished, which I consider to be a significant savings for the budget of municipalities, cities and counties. As my predecessors have said, so will my predecessor, and I will uphold this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29617	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Stanko Janic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29618	Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs. As the introduction said, these two amendments are accepted one for each law and it will be an integral part of the bill. But I am taking this opportunity to say that this is exactly what we are now bringing these changes, and once again we are undermining to future mayors, mayors and mayors their great responsibility in completing the business of restoring the war on the victims' housing and infrastructure that, as they have done so far, with great effort but also with the resources of many things they have done, but also future mayors, mayors and mayors of the municipality will have their part of the job. And I invite them really warmly together we work to complete the restoration of housing and infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29619	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29620	4. Final draft law amending the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 287. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed, the amendments were submitted by the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted their amendments and did not vote on them as an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final draft law amending the law on the reconstruction and development of the city of Vukovar. Who's in? Thank you. Restraint. I find that this Law amending the law on the restoration and development of the city of Vukovar has been unanimously adopted along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29643	We're going to the next two points of a united debate. - Final draft law amending the Law on Property and other real rights, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 301 - Final proposal for a law amending the Law on the lease and sale of business space, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 285 The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Local and Regional Self-Government, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, the judiciary. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. I would like a representative of the motionor, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Marina Dujmović Vukovic, to explain the bill's proposals. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29644	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. These two laws, namely the Law amending and supplementing the Law on ownership and other real rights, as well as the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rental and Sale of Commercial Space, have been drawn up primarily with the aim of full compliance with the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. The law, instead of the headship of the unit of local or regional self-government as the executive body of the unit of local or regional self-government, determines the municipal chief, mayor or mayor. Since both laws determine exactly the headships of units of local, i.e. regional self-government as an executive body for the availability and management of things owned by those units, this should have been carried out in the relevant provisions of both laws in the context of the terminology of those provisions with the provisions of the above-mentioned law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29645	Thank you. The committees? The Committee on Legislatives, the chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29646	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Legislative Committee discussed these two draft laws at the 52nd session held on 17 March 2009, which was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the President of the Croatian Parliament on 10 March 2009. As regards the very Law on Property and other real rights, the Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law and does not object to the proposal to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. The following amendment shall be submitted to the text of the final proposal. For the purposes of Article 3(3), the word "except for a provision" shall be replaced by a point and the remaining text shall be deleted. The explanation is also clear. Therefore, the day of publication of this law in the "National Journal" is neither determined nor determined nor the day of entry into force of the Decision on the opening of the first subsequent general and regular election of members of the municipal and city councils, the County Assembly and the City of Zagreb, as well as the municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb. In order to remove the legal inadmissible, and the possible situation for an article of the law, i.e. part of the provision of an article, to enter into force before the law itself, is therefore subject to the amendment. As regards the second draft law, therefore the Law amending the Law on the Rental and Sale of Commercial Space, the Committee on Legislatives supports the adoption of this law and does not object to the proposal of the Proposer to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. However, to the final text of the law itself, the Committee submits the following amendment, in Article 2, so the words "legal" are added in the words "republished in the People's Journal", and of course a brief explanation that this amendment no-technically regulates the expression of the provisions of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29647	Thank you. The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government? The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? For the judiciary? I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, a debate was shared between MPs Ivo Grbić and Jerko Rosin. Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29648	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of the debate, I would like to point out that the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the final draft law amending the Law on Property and other real rights. With this final proposal for a law on ownership and other real rights, I would say it fully complies with the provisions of the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government. Namely, the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government, instead of the headship and units of local and regional self-government as the executive body of the unit of local and regional self-government, determines the municipality's mayor, in the city and in the mayor's county. In view of the fact that the Law on ownership and other real rights in the provision of Article 32, a specific chapter of the unit of local, i.e. the headship of the regional self-government as an executive body for the availability and management of matters owned by those units is necessary, and the same wording is proposed to be brought into line with the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government. It is also proposed to supplement the provisions of Article 391. The law on ownership and other real rights in such a way that, in the case of alienation or other availability through a public tender owned by units of local self-government, property owned by units of the regional self-government. In view of the recent amendments and additions to the Law on Property and other real rights, these changes did not take place at the end of 2008, and given their importance and need for regulation, primarily in relation to the amended powers and holders of the executive body of local and regional self-government, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this Final Proposal for Law amending the Law on Property and other real rights. As regards the proposed Law amending the Law on the Hire and Sale of Business Space, only wording is harmonized here with the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government. The last amendments to the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government are prescribed to take effect on the day of entry into force of the Decision on the opening of the next general and regular elections, members of the municipal and city councils, the County Assembly and the City of Zagreb, as well as municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The law on the lease and sale of business space states: "the headship of the county or the City of Zagreb, the city or the municipality" it is necessary to replace it with the words "the mayor, mayor of the City of Zagreb, mayor or municipal chief". Due to this and given the need to comply with the cited regulations of the Croatian Democratic Community club, the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Rental and Sale of Business Space will support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29649	Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29650	Therefore, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, I would just like to point out that this bill is also practically in line with all that has provoked the amendment of the Law on Local Self-Government on Redefination or Replacement of Termination to others. It is important that what was the duty or right of headship at the level of the unit of local self-government is now being deployed to the holders of the executive authority and to the representative bodies. In that sense, articles, points, actually paragraphs 5 and 6 of Article 6 were deleted as completely unnecessary, and in Article 6 I would only especially refer to this termological change or the change in term that the tender procedure is implemented and the decision on the most favourable offer is made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia as it was, but instead of the headship of the county or the City of Zagreb, the city or the municipality is now replaced by the mayor, the mayor of the City of Zagreb, the mayor or the municipal chief. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29651	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29652	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary. In my debate, I will briefly refer to one of these two laws, which is the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Property and other real rights, which, as already mentioned in the introduction, fully comply with its provisions of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government as fundamental laws governing the system of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia and what its last amendments from December 2008 have been made. The law is in line with the terminology but, of course, it will also have consequences in a substantive sense, primarily in relation to the distinction of competence between representative and executive bodies, or the establishment of the powers of municipal and city councils and the County Assembly, in relation to the mayors, mayors and mayors. Thus, these amendments to the power of the directly elected leaders, so the mayor, mayor and mayor, are proposed to put the Institute of Sequestration of Temporary Management of Things and the possibility of giving these things into lease, which has so far been in the jurisdiction of the heads of the units of local or regional self-government. Article 391(1), which regulates the ways of alienation of property owned by units of local self-government, states that this also applies to property owned by units of regional self-government, and, of course, Article 3 of that law, and only the entry into force of this law, and the discussions on committees or committees of this Assembly of certain doubts, should therefore be supported and submitted by the amendment of the Legislative Committee. Therefore, given that the provisions of this law are in line with the basic Law on Local Self-Government, I will support its adoption as well as the urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29653	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29654	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Ministry representatives. Well, here's two in a set of laws that harmonize with the changes that we've made in relation to local and regional self-government and especially with regard to the choice of mayors, mayors and mayors. In my debate, I would say the following, that we may also be able to commend the Ministry of Justice, because here in December it actually started by harmonising through this Law of Ownership, in harmonising this law with the amendments made in local and regional self-government and with the establishment of the cleavage and authority, the division of jobs between representative bodies and mayors, the mayor and mayor as executive body. Therefore, these amendments already introduce the term "body responsible for availability" because, as we know, there is a limit for the availability, acquisition and alienation of real estate and movable property owned by units of local and regional self-government for the directly elected leader, so there is a limit and there is a limit above that for representative bodies. It was precisely these amendments and the amendments in December compared to the Law on Property and other real rights that were omitted to regulate both the way available or the obligation to do so through competitions and for units of regional or regional self-government, which should have been regulated by the current amendments. As was the case in Article 32 which speaks of forced management or sequestration, the body should be designated by the executive second rather than by the headship which is now no longer present in the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. Therefore, here I support these amendments as technical amendments, not essential, because it is in compliance with another law and also in relation to the regional or regional self-government because it was covered by this Article in the previous law. Similarly, in the Law on the Hire of Space, a very small technical amendment is proposed, and the provision is made that the decision will be taken according to the exercise of the competition, replacing that it will be made by the directly elected mayor, Mayor of the City of Zagreb, Mayor or Mayor of the Municipality. What needs to be pointed out is that the provisions remain unchanged and this is important in the fact that business premises owned by the Republic, county, municipalities, cities, the City of Zagreb are leased through a public tender. This is extremely important for the transparency of the allocation of space which is publicly owned because of the inability to abuse in the allocation of these business spaces. It also remains in force, that the terms and procedures of the tender are determined by the representative body in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision, so on the basis of this and the general act, then the procedure itself is carried out by the Mayor, Mayor, Mayor or Mayor of the City of Zagreb on the most favourable offer according to strictly established criteria. Given that there are technical amendments to the necessary harmonisation of the law, I support the adoption of amendments and the addition of these two laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29655	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29656	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here I would also like to point out this occasion that he did not take local self-government seriously, how we take the European Charter of Local Self-Government that we have signed, because we have heard that the Ministry of Justice, even publicly commended here now, began to make amendments to the envisaged alignments with the Law on Regional, Local and Regional Self-Government at 12 months. So they began making in December, and sent a proposal to the City Association on 9 March 2009, indicating that they were delivering their remarks by 10 March 2009. Therefore, two laws that are extremely significant and which are in line with the European Charter must carry out consultations with local self-government units are sent in a way that is required within less than 24 hours. So please nice, so it's a mockery of the European Charter, it's a mockery of the Association of Cities, the Association of Municipalities and the Community of County. Therefore, I hope that there will be a real consultation with local self-government units in the future, but not only formally, but also substantively. And I am convinced that then the legal solutions that bring this House of High will be much more quality than it has ever been.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29657	Thank you. Mr. Representative Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29658	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. In view of the amended way of functioning and election in the representative and executive bodies of local self-government necessary intervention in these two laws, the Law amending the Law on ownership and other real rights and in the Law on the Rental and Sale of Commercial Space as two laws governing the rights created, it is also necessary to distinguish these powers that belonged to the headship between the executive and representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government. The way in which the proposal proposed that, instead of headship, the mayor, mayor or mayor of the City of Zagreb, it is in the future authorised to establish a temporary management of other people's affairs... when it comes to protecting the interests and security of the state, nature, monuments of culture, human environment and human health. So it goes into executive function. On the other hand, the bill equalises the availability of real estate by the county in the same way as the local self-government units, so the text is complemented through a public tender in such a way that it is clearly written in the text of the law. It is then defined that, instead of headships, the authorities responsible for the land available under the Law on Local, Regional Self-Government are authorised at the established price without a public tender can have up to 20% of the particles required for the formation of building particles either in one or in another process that occurs. When it comes to the law on the lease and sale of business space, then business space owned by the county, the City of Zagreb, municipalities and cities, legal persons owned by them are leased through competitions and defined which of the bodies will work in the future. Namely, the procedure and the conditions of the tender are maintained by the representative body, so the County Assembly, that is, the City and Municipal Council, while this second part of the procedure, the tender procedure will also be carried out by the mayoral office of the city of Zagreb, the mayor, or the mayoral chief of the municipality. Both law enters into force on the date of entry into force of the decision to call local, regional elections and representative and executive elections, so that these amendments to the law have led to the necessary intervention in the legislation in order to distribute competences and, of course, I support these changes in order to improve them.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29659	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29660	Thank you. We really understand this way of granting powers to the mayor, the mayor, the mayor, the mayor. However, had there not been these amendments to the Committee on Local Self-Government itself, so we are talking about a whole series of these packages, the mayors themselves, the mayors and the mayors would have been a lot of ficus. All of this is about one dilettane work of the state administration's office headed by the secretary of state, who eventually didn't even realize that on the day of the election, the function of city heads was lifted, and forgot that there was another law, it was the Law on the handover of the government, where the same headship and mayor continued to function, so in this interspace between the day of elections and the very positioning of the new mayor. So, all that I've just said is that all these laws and this House are put before the final act and that there was a long time ago to discuss all these laws in order to prepare candidates as well as citizens who will now go to local elections. Not to mention the law on the elections that was due to take effect on 18 May, if the elections had already been held, if these election results were completely invalid. For this reason, Mr. Palaric, and for everything else you've worked as Secretary of State, I remind you that you have not yet answered the question that a Croatian bloc councilman, a party that does not exist, can now sit in the City Council, the city of Đakova, you received this two months ago, you did not answer that. Because of all this, it's time for you to take your suitcase and find a new job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29661	Well, if it was a replica, then let's stick to the subject of replica. Replica reply, Mr. Representative Vladimir Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29662	... My colleague's replicating the secretary of state. I don't think that's correct on this side. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] Since the replica was sent to me, and the laws proposed contain clear and precise provisions on the schedule of functions and I do not think the claims of colleagues stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29663	I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29664	Six. The final draft law amending the law on ownership and other real rights was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 301. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. I ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Marina Dujmovic, State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29665	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29666	Amendment 1 to Article 2 The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29667	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29668	Thank you. This amendment has been accepted. It becomes an integral part of the law. Both the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government Amendments to Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29669	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29670	And this amendment has been accepted. Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. I am voting on the final draft law amending the law on ownership and other real rights. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 103 votes, the Law on Amendments to the Property Act and other real rights has been adopted along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29695	We are going to a united debate on the following two points: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Referendum and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of state authority and local and regional (regional) self-government, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 284; - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 296; The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Local and Regional Self-Government and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee on both proposals for the final law. State Secretary, Central State Administration's Office, Antun Palaric will further explain the bill's proposals. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29696	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So in the debate on earlier proposed laws, it was reiterated that the laws came too late. I'll say they're coming just in time for you to come. If an early discussion of the laws to be applied in future, it might be unnecessary. And these laws will regulate the relationship between the mayor and the representative body that will be established about a month after the election. So three months before their full application. It is not true that the law on which elections should be held should enter into force on the 18th is not true. The election law has long been in force. However, he was the key to a major reform for which the government had the strength to change the model of the elections, to restore citizens' confidence in democracy, mainly at local level, because now, with the commitment of this government and the efforts of the Central State Administration Office, it will be possible for citizens to choose the exact name and last name of the person who will act as executive authority. Following this, the government has also prepared a whole set of laws governing the area, including the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Public Liaison and the Law on Referendum and other forms of personal participation in the conduct of state authorities and local and regional self-government, both as the final proposals of the law, given the importance of the election, allows the situation. In the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, we add with the President of the Commission and the possibility of electing the Vice-President of the Commission from members of the prominent public employees and prescribe that the Croatian Parliament can determine compensation for members of the Commission. The Assembly is free to set a higher fee for the President of the Commission, in accordance with his responsibility and his expected work, compared with the members of the commission. This law further deletes members of the headship as persons to whom the law would apply and who would come under the regime of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, because this headship will no longer be. With regard to the Law on Referendum, we are in line with, of course, a new model of government behaviour in the field of local and regional self-government in such a way that compensation to the committees will be determined by the mayor instead of the headship. But we also bring the law into line with, in the meantime, a major reform of the electoral legislation and the political system in which we have introduced the State Election Commission as an independent dominant, professional body composed of representatives of the ruling majority and representatives of the opposition and which will also play a major role in the implementation of the referendum. Furthermore, and because of the regional changes, we are harmonising the law with the fact that the city is... A separate unit that is no longer part of Zagreb County which has been missed by correcting the novel, earlier the law novel. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are at the threshold of constitutional changes that will also follow the provisions on the referendum, and we will have to draw up a new referendum law that will include all these provisions that we are now amending and what is needed in order to legally implement all the referendums in the Republic of Croatia and in accordance with the Constitution. We have received amendments to the Legislative Committee. Nomotechnically, language-corrected text we are gratefully accepting and proposing to the Croatian Parliament to support the adoption of these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29697	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29698	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Palaric, if this assumption of yours were correct, then probably the Vice President of the Parliament would not have given amendments after the law was passed. And if you were to listen to the debate that was related to those two laws then you would see that the SDP had just indicated that the date was 18.5. illogical since the elections were 17.5. Given that Mr. Shakespeare is a greater legal expert than you, I would advise you to still listen to his opinion before you answer me, and as far as the referendum is concerned, you should have installed other models that are tied up in Western European countries, where the council, or representative body, which seeks a referendum if this referendum fails, is then disbanded by the representative body. I say consult with the Vice President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29699	Thank you. I'm opening, pardon committees, for legislation, for local and regional self-government. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. I'm opening a debate. The HDZ advocates' club will share the debate, Mrs. Ana Lovrin and Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29700	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here, given that the points are united, that we shared the debate with time on behalf of the club I will look back at one of the two proposed laws. Therefore, the Law on preventing conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties and, of course, introduce and stress that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community as a legal solution absolutely supports it for two basic reasons or two groups of issues that we can split into two separate units. First or first, this law is in line with the amendments in question and the additions of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, all in connection with the Law on Elections of Municipal Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb. Therefore, the provision is deleted that members of the county and city and municipal heads and members of the City of Zagreb's Headship are state officials. This solution is not only acceptable but also logically necessary, since the law mentioned above is, therefore, amended holders of executives at local and regional level. The second or second part of the amendments and additions relate to those legal solutions that further strengthen the independence of the Commission's work on conflict of interest. In this respect, the proposed solutions are acceptable for members of the Committee to be elected by the Vice-President of the Commission and from the ranks of prominent public employees who must not be members of any political party. It is also arranged that members of the committee from the ranks of prominent public employees have the right to cash compensation for commission work, but the fees or the amount of these fees are determined by the Croatian Parliament. Furthermore, in order to support the proposed solution, that the sentence of suspension of the net salary of the official cannot last longer than 3 months and the amount covered by the suspension should not exceed one-third of the monthly salary of the official. Similarly, the fact that all these solutions or all of these proposed solutions are actually improving or creating an opportunity to improve the work of the Committee of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community absolutely supports these amendments and additions, i.e. this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29701	Thank you. Ms Ana Lovrin's representative on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29702	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support amendments and additions to these two laws. I will say something about the reasons why it will support the amendment and addition of the Law on Referendum and other forms of personal participation and the exercise of state authority and local and regional (regional) self-government. It is therefore necessary to amend and supplement this law in order to comply with the Law on the State Election Commission. But here he is today interesting to us, and he is here in front of us to comply with the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, and that would be to say the regulated law at the moment of law enforcement which I would say is drastically changing the electoral system in local and regional self-government. Why is he interesting? Of course, because the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government of 2007 provides for a way in which a directly elected head of local and regional self-government who has the legitimacy of the directly elected person can be relieved. And so the question was, who, in case he broke it, frequently broke the law, became incapable of acting on his duty as who he could be. The law found that the directly elected leader could be resolved by a referendum. The law lays down who, in which way, can resolve it, who can submit a proposal to call a referendum, an initiative in which a decision is taken to call a referendum and that law in its two articles, the article which speaks of a proposal coming from a representative body as well as an article that speaks when voters listed in the list of voters can and in which way initiate the replacement of the directly elected leader and in both of these articles this law calls for the appropriate application of the provisions of the Law on referendum and other forms of personal participation in the conduct of state and local regional self-government. That is why it was necessary to go to amendments and amendments to the law which would introduce compliance with these two laws. First of all, with the Law on the State Election Commission, which, as we know, was established as a permanent body, it is also given jobs to carry out a national referendum. The proposed amendments and additions therefore establish the competence of the National Election Commission in the implementation of the referendum. A series of provisions regulates the status of the City of Zagreb in a way that is omitted from the provisions relating to the county, or municipalities and cities, and is adopted, a special article that will regulate these committees for the implementation of the state referendum in the City of Zagreb is proposed. Further amendments propose actually clean technical amendments, I would say, technical corrections to the names of state bodies that have happened in the meantime, and determine how the implementation of the local referendum and the citizens' choirs will be financed. There is also a little compliance with the Law on Local Self-Government and the area where it determines who will determine the compensation for members of the Election Commission, since there is no headship as executive body. Here, once again, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the amendment and addition of this law, above all, so that all following the laws will be in force and arranged until the day of the entry into force of the Law on Local Self-Government of Direct Elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29703	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29704	Well, it's incorrect that all these laws will be harmonised because here, we've now been arguing here for three minutes, we've remembered four more laws that you haven't thought of yet which should change because that's one of the government's seriousness. So it's incorrect that yet, because we still need them and here they are, the government just remembered the Household Activity Act. There's still, here's what I'm going to be, Benevolent, Trade Act, then there at the office when the government disbands and puts the commissioner and you have to deal with it. There's a whole series of laws, so let's search it out once you're organized or you're in total decay.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29705	This last one was too high. ... Not for those reasons. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29706	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club found it necessary to say a few words in connection with the final draft law on preventing conflicts of interest. Of course, we agree to delete where the headship should be deleted, but you have noticed colleagues and colleagues that the institution of the vice president is being introduced here, and we agree, the vice president is proposing to be an external member, and we agree with that, it is proposed that the external members have the right to compensation, and we agree with that, but now one warning. It is proposed to be decided by the Croatian Parliament, and here we must warn of two details. First the simplest one. The president of this committee, trust me colleagues and colleagues, I'm sitting in it, he's got his hands full, and his compensation has to be different from the compensation of other outsiders, that's what I'm asking you, Secretary of State, that's what you're thinking when it's proposed. That man should absolutely be rewarded and said, because of what he's doing, it's a very extensive and responsible job. The second proposal that goes our way is next. In fact, we must pay close attention to the absolute amounts that our external members receive for compensation. My colleagues and colleagues, I would like to warn you that outside members of our permanent working bodies have a coefficient of 0.80, 0.80. I must also warn you that the people who work, who are in a permanent working relationship in the Parliament, look at our benches here, there are approximately 10 to 20 thousand sheets of paper on your benches, they've done this, they've multiplied, they've tied and divided, in two shifts by people whose coefficient is 0.62. They work 180 hours for that coefficient, our fellow external members work half an hour a month, there are months when the Parliament does not sit. So the difference in the ratio of the Captain is 1:300. It's absolutely unacceptable for the HNS, we're warning yesterday and the day before yesterday we talked about it, and I think we need to make a move here to really value the work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29707	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29708	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Secretary of State. Well, I will, of these two laws on which the debate is united, briefly refer to the proposed amendments and additions of the Law on Referendum and other forms of personal participation in the conduct of state authorities and local and regional, i.e. regional self-government proposing its alignment, in particular with the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and the Law on the Selection of Municipal Mayors and Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb. It is also proposed to bring it into line with the Law on the State Election Commission, given that the DIP's competence with the conduct of the tasks relating to the conduct of parliamentary, presidential and local elections and the election of the councils of national minorities was also put in place and the implementation of the national, local and advisory referendum. This law determines, instead of the State Commission for the Implementation of the Referendum, the National Election Commission which would also appoint members of the Commissions for the Implementation of the State Referendum in the Countys and the City of Zagreb. The law also proposes that funds for the implementation of the local referendum be provided to the budgets of units of local or regional self-government and for the implementation of choirs of citizens in the budgets of units of local self-government, therefore in the budgets of municipalities and cities, since under the provisions of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, civil society assemblies as forms of direct decision-making and participation of citizens can only be implemented there in municipalities and cities. The powers to determine the level of compensation are conferred on the members of the committees for the implementation of the local referendum on the mayors, mayors and mayors. So far, this has been in the jurisdiction of the heads of units of local and regional self-government and since the new system of local and regional self-government has no longer been proposed. So, given that this law is in line with the laws that I have previously stated, I will support its adoption as well as the emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29709	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29710	Mr. Vice President. I will only briefly refer to the changes to the law concerning the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties because he is another classic indicator of the intricacies of Mr Palarić's shortsightedness which, when we have made the last amendments, has been deafened to all proposals when we pointed out that the extension of the number of officials to whom the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest on members of the headship would have caused only one chaotic situation, and I would have been very interested in reporting how many members of the chieftains in Croatia have resigned in the headship since these last changes were in conflict of interest. I know that, say, the city of Rijeka did this by pointing to all the illogicalness of this law. So Mr. Palaric then insisted that members of the chieftains enter the law even though it was known that the chieftains had stopped working. Therefore, in addition to all those remarks highlighted today about unhappiness, this is another proof of the shortsightedness and incompetence of Mr. Secretary of State who is most responsible for this legislative schlamper we are meeting today in this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29711	Mr. Representative Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29712	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. These two laws, in a united debate, of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on referendums and other forms of participation of citizens in the state government of local and regional self-government, are, in fact, in addition to this need imposed by the elections itself, also with the Law on the State Election Commission and, of course, with one and another law governing the issues of choice and functioning of local and regional self-government. The news under the Law on Referendum would actually be that the State Election Commission is responsible for the implementation of the state referendum and also the appointment of members of the election committee for the state referendum in Zagreb and for receiving its report on the results of the elections. It is also determined that the funds for the conduct of the elections are borne by the local self-government unit or the City of Zagreb. Therefore, the provisions so far contained a provision under which the units of the regional self-government should bear the same provision, and since the issues related are not subject to theirs, it is also illogical that they bear the costs. It is also determined by this law that members of the Committee for the Implementation of the Referendum will receive compensation which will now be cut down by the mayor or mayor of the City of Zagreb instead of the former headship. The law supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests is in line with the Law on Elections of Mayors, Mayors and Mayors. Since the heads of the law are no longer officials, this Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest also leaves the circle of officials bound by the law in all respects, or the chiefs as such, disappear. It is introduced to strengthen the independence of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests in such a way as to enable or prescribe that the Vice-President is elected by the members of the Commission themselves, and from the ranks of persons who have entered the Commission from public employees and they must not be members of any party, so we are strengthening the objectivity of this body. And members of the board of public employees have the right to make these changes and to pay cash in the amount determined by the Parliament, which is also a newspaper. The level of penalties for infringements of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest is specified, so that instead of the relatively undefined penalties, it is now specified in a way that amounts to the maximum net salary of officials, up to three months to a maximum of one-third of the salary of officials. In view of these changes offered and which in terms of harmonisation for the purposes of the elections and in terms of compliance with other laws governing the same area, I support.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29713	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29714	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. How, through the application of the Law on Referendum and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of state authority and local and regional regional self-government, the possibility of direct and democratic expression of the will of citizens is forced to comply with the Law on the State Election Commission, the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and the Law on the Selection of Municipal Mayors, Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb. It is thus proposed to establish the State Election Commission as the competent authority for the implementation of the national referendum and to appoint members of the National Conference in the City of Zagreb as appointed by the members of the Commission for the Implementation of the State Referendum in the County. Only a report on the implementation of the State referendum in the City of Zagreb is submitted to the State Election Commission. Furthermore, it is proposed to regulate more precisely the issue of providing funds for the implementation of citizens' choirs, so that they are provided in the budget of units of local self-government, or in the budget of the City of Zagreb, and not in the budget of units of regional self-government, since citizens' assemblies can only be held in municipalities and cities. A change is also proposed in determining the amount of compensation to the president and members of the commission for the implementation of the local referendum in such a way that, instead of the headship of the units of local, regional self-government, the amount of compensation is determined by the mayor, the president and members of the commission for the implementation of the local referendum, which cannot be higher than the average monthly salary in the Republic of Croatia, the mayor of the City of Zagreb, the mayor and the municipal chief. The proposed final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties is harmonised with the Law on Local, Regional, Regional Self-Government. As amended, the holders of the executive authority are at local and regional level. It is thus deleted that members of the county, city and municipal headsmen and members of the City of Zagreb's headship are state officials. It is also proposed that the members of the committee be elected by the deputy, the chairman of the committee from the ranks of respected public employees who must not be a member of any party, and that members of the committee from the public staff, have the right to the monetary compensation determined by the Croatian Parliament. Furthermore, in order to ensure more precise regulation of the rate of suspension of part of the net salary, which the Commission may impose as a sanction in the event of a conflict of interest of public officials, it is prescribed that the suspension penalty cannot last longer than three months and the amount covered by the suspension may not exceed one third of the monthly salary of the officials. For this reason, I am firstly in favour of the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Conduct of Public Dutys, as well as the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Referendum and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of state authority and local, regional, regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29715	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29716	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I would refer only to the Law on Referendum and in my desire to point out what brings speed without quality and when the laws being prepared are not read carefully. In addition to the amendment and the addition of the Law on Referendum, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has referred us to the applicable provisions of the law in order to compare what is in this law, the bill changes. So according to the accompanying documents Mr Palaric gave to the MPs, the provision of Article 5 reads: "The national referendum has the right to take part in the participation of Croatian citizens who are resident and resident in the Republic of Croatia for at least a year without interruption until the referendum is held." Is it true that the provision of Article 5 reads as I have now read? It's not. Because in 2007, the Constitutional Court, under its official duty, independently initiated the procedure for assessing the constitutionality of this provision and abolished part of the provision of Article 5, I quote from the Constitutional Court's decision, which reads: "which have residence and reside in the Republic of Croatia for at least a year, without interruption until the date of the referendum". And in the opening text of the assessment of the situation, Mr. Palaric called on "The People's Journal", 33/96. and 92/01. but not to a decision of the Constitutional Court which is not annexed to the materials. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The referendum law? As it states in the attached material or as decided by the Constitutional Court in 2007. Now I'd like your attention and Mr. Vice President Shakespeare. After the Constitutional Court has abolished part of the provision of paragraph 1 of Article 5 of the referendum Act, the following provision remains. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I quote: "the voters referred to in paragraph 1.", therefore, these are those who have their residence in the Republic of Croatia at least one year before the referendum, so "the voters in paragraph 1 of this article have the right to participate in the referendum and if, at the time of the referendum, they find themselves outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia in a way that they declare themselves in diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Croatia in countries where they have found themselves or in any other way." This "and if they found each other" could be a figure of speech. But it remains in the law, because that provision was bound by the provision of paragraph 1 when it was worth the fact that only citizens who had their residence a year earlier in the territory of the Republic of Croatia were entitled to vote in a state referendum. But let's move on. What else remains in the referendum law? This Regulation shall enter The government doesn't propose to change it. I quote the current provisions of Article 26. "the vote in the national referendum is held in the rule of voting places in the Republic of Croatia", further "exceptionally from this provision of paragraph 1 of this article, Croatian citizens who have their residence in the Republic of Croatia, and who are present at the time of holding a referendum outside the border of the Republic of Croatia, will vote in the diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Croatia in the countries in which they found themselves on that day" again the provision and the solution submitted in paragraph 1 of Article 5, which was the right to vote in the referendum only given to citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have residence in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. When the Constitutional Court abolished the extension by its decision or part two of that sentence, the remaining provisions in the state referendum have the right to participate Croatian citizens. Any other provisions which were laid down in the earlier provision of paragraph 1 of Article 5 have been laid down in the referendum law. So in this way, the polling stations for the state, in the referendum, you can open abroad exclusively for those who have a residence in the Republic of Croatia, and that day they find themselves in another country. If there is now a harmonisation of the law as to how you did not offer to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision of 2007. Furthermore, Article 8e, when voters seek a referendum other than the name, last name and address, must also be given by JMBG. So isn't it legally prescribed that at the end of this year JMBG goes into history and replaces the OIB. What is the function of the OIB, or personal identification number, if we still insist on the single number of citizens in the referendum? Therefore, as a representative of these provisions, amendments and additions cannot be submitted to amendments because they do not now change. But maybe someone else can intervene, so the government can make amendments to me that are terribly important in the referendum law. And I don't know why compliance is only with the Law on Local Elections and DIPU and not with the Constitutional Court's decision that was passed two years ago. As a result of the publication of the Constitutional Court’s decision in the National Journal, the Government did not propose the harmonisation of all the provisions of the laws necessary for such a provision of the current Article 5 to be implemented in practice. Whenever we work quickly, whenever there are no well-intentioned warnings from the ranks of opposition MPs, we have solutions like this and you are angry at criticism. Every single one of them has a lot more serious criticism, and a lot of screaming, and a lot of noise, and not saying goodbye, and a head turn. And we just want us not to have to do the same law five times in things that are two or three years old. And what's the problem? I just don't understand. I don't believe that the state administration office and the government didn't know about the Constitutional Court's decision. We're gonna fix that law one more time. And now imagine that the Slovenians are unblocking the negotiations and that we have to call a referendum this year with a law like this. If Mr. Secretary of State is from you and you are too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29717	Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29718	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here I am in my debate very briefly because everything has already been addressed only in relation to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests and the conduct of public, public duties. In this law, the law partially complies with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. But it also introduces further improvements and some provisions that contribute to greater transparency and greater public surveillance in behaviour, in the conduct of public duties. In fact, I have to say here, here's all the Secretary of State, I'm going to say something in defense of the Secretary of State, and especially with regard to what Mr. President of the National Council has said for the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy. And this was an objection to the inclusion of members of the headship of local and regional self-government in the Amendments to the Law on conflict of interest, which has been amended, let us not forget in May 2008. I must say that these amendments to the law were the consequence of the guidelines in the report on the progress of the European Union. They were guidelines of experts from the European Union who sought and suggested that the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest should be extended to local and regional officials, as well as to the heads of state-owned companies for reasons of public ownership. The question may be asked whether it was known at that time that the chief would not be, it was known, but at the time of the adoption of that law were local and regional officials, these were the duties on which the possible corruption risk was assessed and were therefore included in the circle of officials concerned by the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. Whether they did it quickly and in time so that it would be meaningful, so before it came into force, before other laws came into force, we can talk about it, whether it was fast enough and efficient enough, it was an effective thing, that's another thing. But the least we can discuss, which we can expect mainly from us and those who have to fight corruption to talk about excess transparency. So there's no extra transparency. The officials who were then officials filed their property cards and I think that's good. Now, formally, we have to delete them from this law, given that, by applying these other laws, the headship will no longer exist. Furthermore, I believe it is a good provision to establish that the Vice-President of the Commission for Conflict of Interest will also be from the ranks of prominent citizens, public employees, etc., therefore, not from the ranks of MPs. And that's like I said, one more step in ensuring public oversight of public duties. Here, for this reason I think that this law, its adoption should be supported, just as it was necessary and then, in May of last year, to pass such a law as it was then voted upon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29719	Thank you. A few replicas. First, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29720	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I understand why you should stand up for the Secretary of State. But there's really no reason for that, because the secretary of state should work by law, which is why he's getting good pay. However, here is the whole debate, and even now this decision of the Constitutional Court shows that he is the person who was to propose to the government law, the Government of the Parliament, but apparently did not look at all the elements of these entire packages of laws, the detour of local self-government, and apparently he does not even know the functioning of local self-government. And besides his entire work to this day tells us that it is indeed time for man to go home, think carefully about whether this is a job for him, because it is obviously the kind of legislation that damages the entire Republic of Croatia, and also the solutions he has made, that has replaced several local authorities chosen by the people, not the councilmen who have been bought. I'm just reminding you of two elements, and that's Djakovo. And the second solution is about Zadar when the SDP list was to be given the same number of council members as the HDZ list. At that time, he wrote in his solution that the polling lists in Zadar were not arranged. But I am now asking the question of how these elections were even conducted and how they were recognised in 2005. Mr. Palaric, I am really asking you before the Prime Minister pressures you not only on the Parliament but also on the Croatian public to resign himself because this is not a job for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29721	Replication response, Madam Representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29722	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here, Mr. Representative, I have no need for you or me to discuss Mr. Palaric's remainder here or not. I'm just explaining that inclusion in the 2008 amendments to the law. The conflict of interest law was not Palaric's whim but was one of the measures in implementing the Anti-Corruption Programme 2006/2008. in accordance with the guidelines and guidelines of the report on the progress of the European Commission. So, so much for that, and so there was still a series of things that you said about Zadar. I don't know by what law, which law says both SDP and HDZ must have equal representation. How and where you read it from, so what it should be like for Palaric to decide that he will give it to everyone equally. I guess that's what the citizens in the election said who would and what, after the election, how many councilmen they'd have in the city council. Therefore, everyone should also go to the local or parliamentary elections, to come in a position to form a government, that the government decides on what to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29723	Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29724	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'm gonna talk about is part of the conflict of interest. My colleague Lovrin said it was not Mr Palaric's will but he respected the proposals made by the European Commission, and there were many other proposals from the European Commission which did not apply when it came to conflict of interest and preventing conflicts of interest, and the one most controversial was applied. Here I will quote to you the 2005 UN Convention of the Conclusions of the OECD of 2008 which says that when it comes to better preventing conflicts of interest, the possibility of carrying out regulatory conflicts of interest when it comes to civil servants is vice versatile to the circle of officials to which they are concerned. So, we're deciding to include members of the headship even though we knew that the chieftains were abolished actually got a commission to cloud conflicts of interest. And I'm really interested in having Mr. Palaric present us with information on how many chapters in 555 units of local self-government this law has been applied over the past period.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29725	And the next replica of Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29726	I agree with you colleagues for saying that this law should be passed. It's sad that we didn't do it when it was supposed to be a single package, and not like this, the government remembers, here and there, and it brings us here. It's unserious to parliamentarians, it's unserious to local self-government units, to people, to citizens. A colleague defends something indefensible. It's indefensible, and she said she would still defend Mr. Palaric. He is defended by his actions, and we should have already established an association here on local self-governments that are victims of Mr Palarić's actions. At first, in the last term, it was already hidden. It is now open and it is something to this extent such a politicisation of the actions of a person who is at the head of the office who is supposed to be standing so evenly, so independent of what is the political set of things in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29727	Comrades, limit yourselves, please! This isn't about the Secretary of State. This is about these two laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29728	In Croatia it is about lawlessness.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29729	Final Review State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29730	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It turns out from this debate that I am a very powerful man and that I can, on my own, pass the courts, do as I please and make the fate of local self-government. The conclusion of those who observe local self-government in Croatia, i.e. the International Community, is that those who observe everything that has happened in the field of protection of the rights of national minorities, reform of political systems, reform of the state administration is that the job is well done. Gentlemen, there are no more criticisms from the European Union that we need to implement a reform of the state administration, but continue the fight against corruption and target ourselves with some problems. The OSCE mission assessment of the protection of the rights of national minorities is excellent. We closed the chapters, closed the mission. The Council of Europe's assessment of the monitoring of local self-government in Croatia has been remarkable, all disputes that were other than in one of Oroslavje ended in court so that the court supported the decisions of the Central State Office and, of course, everyone can think about public life participants as they please. Here, we hear words that may not be appropriate to Parliament, but please. However, the Croatian local self-government is functioning well, and for ten years I spent working to create local self-government since the first of those laws back in '92. the years when the local self-government in Croatia was gone. Since the first election for members of the representative bodies, the first regional structure and all of this development, except for one short period of time when God does not know what is going on. But, of course, no one is eternal and that sometimes leaving function and facilitating this great burden of responsibility is because, well, someone has the perception that I'm really self-administering everything that's going on. There are entire control systems, there are over the administrative court and above the Administrative Court the Constitutional Court and more or less in Croatia all decisions have been confirmed by court cases. I'd like to refer to the laws now. Mr. Lesar is gone. He criticised articles that have not changed, which the Constitutional Court partially abolished. He abolished all that was excessive and all that was left was enough for the referendum law to be implemented, and that is, as regards criticism that we introduced a headship into the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, it was a representative who was then a minister who made it clear that it was one of the demands of the international community and that as a contribution to the fight against corruption we incorporated it into the law to apply as it applies. Then I said, "There will be no chieftains," but there are a year of them, so we're going to apply the law to them for a year. And an open question of the compensation ratio that the members of the commission will receive in relation to the salaries of civil servants and deputies. This is indeed not what the government will propose to the Parliament to determine the amount of compensation. The Assembly will determine this on its own and will likely make sure that the compensation is adequate for the work of members of the commission. I thank all those who support the passing of these laws. There is no clumper in the government's work on the implementation of a major reform of local self-government, large for which the government had power and which opens up a number of issues and unknowns, and of course there is still mention of headship, but norms and consumes. There is a law on the selection of members of representative bodies incompatibility of membership functions in the representative body and in the headship. Of course, when the headship ceases to exist, this norm is consummated and should not, because of something that does not produce any effects and legal consequences, go to change the law only because of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29731	Thank you. A few corrections. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29732	Thank you. I do, so I could make it right, but I have three corrections. Mr. Palaric, it's not true that we said you were a powerful man. This whole debate could make you aware that you are a obedient man, or obedient, because you carry out the government’s orders exclusively. I would ask you to be so parliamentary and squeeze, lift these tiles and answer your word. Secondly, it is not true that all your solutions were correct, that they were confirmed by the Administrative and Constitutional Court. Just remember the case of Osijek-Baranja County. Just remember that case. And in the end, in any case, this isn't about any slapper, this is about total diletantism because you have a number of laws that should have been united and adopted together today because these are also the laws on the jurisdiction of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29733	And Mrs. Representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29734	I'd take advantage of the correction of the incorrect allegations and correct the secretary of state who said the evaluation was extraordinary. I will say that the rating was excellent because I am Vice-President of the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe in which at the plenary session in front of 360 local leaders and 46 members of the Council of Europe, I was assessed as the state of local democracy in Croatia, and it was presented by the Secretary of State, Mr Palaric. Excellently, I am correcting the assumption that it was remarkable because it would not be right for me to stop sitting there and even leading that session not to say, if the Council of Europe assessed the state of local administration and self-government, if it had been preceded by a year of monitoring and monitoring by all units of local administration and self-government and where the opposition was, conditionally said to the central government and this other, HDZ government, meant very, very closely what was happening in Croatia in the Council of Europe in Strasbourg in Congress was an excellent assessment of the work of local administration and self-government, and thus the Central State Office. That's why I corrected the quote from extraordinary to excellent.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29735	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing at 15.00 hours with a united debate on the final draft law amending the Law on the Transport of Line and Intermediate Coastal Maritime Transport and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Maritime Good and Sea Ports and Public Roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29736	8. Final draft law amending and supplementing the law on referendums and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of state authority and local, regional and regional self-government. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. The 284th Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed, amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law. This amendment was adopted in the course of the debate pursuant to Article 169. Rules of Procedure, it becomes an integral part of the final bill. I therefore give the vote the final draft law amending and supplementing the law on referendums and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of state authority and local and regional self-government. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 103 votes, this law has been passed along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29779	We continue with a session and a joint discussion on - Final draft law amending the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 288 - Final draft law amending the Law on Public Roads, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 292 - Final draft law amending the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 286 The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, Local and Regional Self-Government. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government and by the Committee on Law. State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Branko Bačić will further explain the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29780	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So, I will give an introduction to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements, amending the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports and amending the Law on Transport in Linely and Intermediate Coastal Maritime Transport, while fellow Perovic will be the law relating to the amendment of the Law on Public Roads. Therefore, since the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on the Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb in 2007 and after that, it was clear about the implementation of the elections itself to amend the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government which laws practically abolished county, city and municipal headships. It was also necessary to intervene in these two laws, which I had mentioned earlier, in a way that the tasks that were in the works of the county, city or municipal authorities of the trust or the holder of the executive authority in the counties, or mayors or mayors in the units of local self-government or in the cities and municipalities. We in the Government were guided by how and in what way to leave jobs that were so far in the work of chieftains to the mayors, or mayors or mayors, or city councils or mayors, or municipal councils. Our position was therefore that all those jobs that produce the consequences of a longer period of time and represent maritime goods management activities, so such as concessions, extension of concessions, decision on port area status, establishment of statutes which define the affairs of certain port administrations, establishment of port administrations etc. who have so far been in charge of the county heads to leave themselves to the county assembly. Therefore, all those transactions relating to concessioning, management, concessioning, extension of concessions, etc. which therefore implies the management of maritime goods to be left to representative bodies. And in the case of operational transactions, ongoing transactions, when it comes to reporting tasks of the Central State authorities on the status of maritime goods, these transactions are then left to the mayors, i.e. depending on the authority of the mayors or the mayors. This same criterion was also decisive when we were considering amending the Transport Act in line with the occasional coastal transport, where we also left the county councils with jobs that were in the jurisdiction of the county heads, i.e. city and municipal councils of jobs that were in the urban, municipal and municipal departments in such a way that the decision on individual lines connecting the Croatian islands, on the number of these lines, on their frequency, on financing. So on all these long-term jobs that regulate and determine relations in this activity, so the maritime integration of Croatian islands, to be left to the county congregations. So here is why we have therefore proposed amendments to these two laws, and we therefore propose that the Assembly adopt them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29781	Thank you. The Legislative Committee. Ah yes, we have a third law since yes, yes. Third law, State Secretary Mr. Ivica Perovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29782	Thank you, Vice President, Honorable MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. On the bench you get the meaning of the bill on amendments to the Law on Public Roads. At its meeting on 5 October 2007, the Croatian Parliament passed the Law on the Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb, which was published in the “National Journal” No. 109/2007. The Law on Local and Regional Self-Government in the “National Journals” 33/01, 60/01, 129/05, 109/07 was amended and amended. and 125/08. as a fundamental law governing the system of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia, as well as the authority and jurisdiction of local and regional (regional) units. The law abolished the municipal, city, or county heads, and entrusted their powers directly to elected municipal mayors, mayors and mayors. As mentioned above, all specific laws on certain areas within the competence of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government should be aligned with the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, this was necessary to amend the provisions of the applicable Public Roads Act in the “National Journals” published means 180/04, 82/06, 138/06, 146/08. and 152/08. The same law stipulates that the company is an institution, i.e. the administrative body of the City of Zagreb, which manages the public road, issues the conditions for building connections and access to the public road within the city's construction area only with the prior consent of the city's headship. It is equally prescribed that the administrative body of the City of Zagreb shall carry out the construction and reconstruction tasks referred to in Article 14, maintenance referred to in Article 18 and other management tasks referred to in Article 22 of the same law, on the basis of the decision of the City’s Headship for County and Local Roads in the City of Zagreb. The same powers shall be conferred on the Mayor in Article 33(3), and in Article 61, paragraph 1 shall be transferred from the City Headship to the City Assembly. Following the above, the proposed amendments to the Law on Public Roads are in line with the unsaid Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government in such a way that these transactions have been transposed as I have said. The following is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the proposed text of amendments to the Law on Public Roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29783	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? For maritime, traffic and connections? For local and regional self-government? I'm opening a debate. HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29784	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We've heard about this many times today, and there's really no need to repeat it again. So I, even though three points are the subject of a united debate, will be very brief all three. In this first final draft law amending the Transport Act by line and occasional coastal maritime transport. In fact, it's about the fact that in all the proposals where the county heads decided to do so, it's now up to the county council because the chieftainships are being shut down, and where the municipal and city heads decided, the municipal and city councils are now deciding, because that's the fundamental thing we've chosen for the direct election and we're harmonising this with these direct elections, so there's no doubt about it. The replacement is that the former executive body is now bringing a representative body, either at the county level, or city level instead. In this second proposal today, which is currently under discussion, the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. It is not that every authority of the headship so far is taken over by the assembly, or by the council, but there are several situations in which the mayor, or mayor or chief of staff, takes over. This shows that I am now not tired of you and I am not reading the article by article, that the vast majority of powers of the present headship and, in fact, the increasingly important powers are being taken over by the representative body. So either the County Assembly or the municipal and city council, while only in a few fewer, it could almost be said that the subsequent decisions were left to the mayor, or the mayor or mayor. And I think this proposal is well balanced and distributed and should be supported. In this third proposal of the Law amending the Law on Public Roads, it is indeed two short changes where the company of the facility, or the administrative body of the City of Zagreb, which manages the public road, sets out the conditions for the construction of connections and access to the public road within the construction area of the city only with prior consent instead of the city's headship, now the mayor, that is. And secondly, in Article 41, the administrative body of the City of Zagreb, on the basis of a decision in place of the city's headship, this time the City Assembly for County and Local Roads in the City of Zagreb performs the works of construction and reconstruction referred to in Article 14. etc. So we believe that these two divisions are also well done and that, before these direct elections, all these amendments need to be harmonised and adopted so that elections can be held and functioning normally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29785	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29786	Mr. Vice President, thank you, members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs and parliamentary deputies. I took the floor just to express my support for the Bill on Amendments to the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, with the Final Proposal for the Law. And it seems to me that it's very rational and logically proposed to be in the transfer of adaptation... I'm sorry, I didn't see. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I scraped this, I didn't see it. I apologize to everyone for being a little nervous, but at least it took me longer. I just wanted to say that I support a distinction that has been made and that seems extremely important to me in this, that everything that is transmitted now in the new schedule is different which is important, that decisions taken over a longer period of time that represent certain management tasks, such as giving concessions on the maritime good in the removal of the headship are entrusted to the representative body, representative body of the units of local and regional self-government, and that only those operations are entrusted to the mayor, i.e. the municipal chief and mayor. I think this one distance is very good, useful, right and it will in practice prove to be a very good solution. I thank you and apologize for that forest.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29787	Thank you very much. The woods will be gone. Forests, forest Javor. Ms. Nevenka Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29788	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here, we know that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, of course, together with units of local and regional self-government, invests considerable financial resources in modernising national and county ports and ports and does so for reasons of increasing and port capacity of service quality and competitiveness. It is also an opportunity to recall that over the past period many ports and ports have been renovated means from both state, county and local importance, that the Jadrolinia fleet has been restored and that there is an important increase in the number of ferry lines to as many as 110 thousand nautical miles. Why am I bringing this up? For the reason that these were basic assumptions that significantly increased the island's connection to the mainland, new night lines were introduced and thus the quality and transport and life of our islanders. Local and regional self-government units have participated directly in many decisions related to this issue. And through this harmonisation of the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime transport, you can see the great role of units and local and regional levels in the overall meaning and planning and realization of many projects in this segment. This harmonisation applies, as we have already heard in the first row, to the transfer of powers and competences in accordance with the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and it is related to Article 8 which regulates the harmonisation of county and inter-zonal powers, in the determination of county and inter-journal lines. Article 9 refers to local lines, Article 10 of the second line of importance, Article 17 of the possibility of extension and the creation of transport, Article 26. refers to concessions for lines and county and local importance and Article 30, which regulates membership in expert committees. This harmonisation of the law gives greater authority to mayors and mayors but, of course, in the creation of an entire development policy related to this area. Greater powers are given to both the congregations and the county congregations and the councils and I will agree there, that is the basic reason why I will also support this bill, it is that from this proposal that concession powers are transferred from the county heads not to the mayor but to the county councils, or not to the mayor, but to the city council. Here, that's the basic reason why I support this harmonisation of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29789	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29790	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In one I would like to share with my colleague Marinovic when he talks about improving the conditions of transportation, so passengers and vehicles to the islands. There is indeed significant progress in both the number of lines and ships, as well as in the port infrastructure. However, I would like to warn of a case involving the reconstruction of the ferry line between Sumartin and Makarska. There last summer, the prime minister opened a new port, hence a more modern port in Sumartin. On the other hand, however, there remained a port in Makarska, or nothing was done, so that new ships could not drive there again and again very often the line was interrupted because of the storm. I know that the town of Makarska doesn't have much of an opinion about being in the city center as a ferry port, I know it's trying to find a location where it might be. However, if something is not made there and this investment in this port remains, in fact, one investment that was not really necessary unless it brings improvement to a new ship that would drive there and will not be able to drive until the port is fixed in Makarska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29791	Thank you. Reply to the replica of Ms. Nevenka Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29792	Maybe I'll be a little more specific. So, Mr. Bauk is restored means really many ports and there are many good examples, over the past period 54 ports are and one of the ones you're talking about is supposed to be controversial, there's no other side, but from the information that I have at my disposal the Macarans don't want a port in Makarska itself, they want to move for what reasons, and that's why it's not done, why this project isn't finished. And that's what we've been talking about in this house so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29793	Thank you. Mr. Representative Kresimir Gulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29794	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I will look back from these three proposed amendments to the law most on the Public Roads Act. We all know that we do not repeat that this proposal to amend the Road Law is in line with the new Law on Elections in Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, where local authorities are just replacing the mayors, mayors and mayors. I'll say something about public roads, perhaps more concrete about county roads that are segments of public roads, fall into segments of public roads. We all know that our daily life along our state highways and state roads is necessary and our county roads on which, according to some information that I have for the County of Zagreb, a dense traffic takes place. I must say that our county roads, especially in Zagreb County, and certainly throughout continental Croatia, where they were strong after this strong winter, are in even worse shape than they were before, so I think they should be taken care of, and especially since I come from Zagreb County, I have to say that the situation is specific because we know that all the traffic around the city of Zagreb is passing through Zagreb County and thus is very burdened by our county roads. So I'm just going to bring out a few data that the County Road Administration of Zagreb County has under the authority of a thousand 543 kilometers, that average annual daily traffic on... County roads are 4.5 thousand vehicles per day, which is three times the average of the Republic of Croatia, which is thousands and 500 vehicles per day. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this is due to the normal surroundings of Zagreb County as rings around the city of Zagreb. And in my debate on public roads, here now the secretary of state is always trying to emphasize it again, I come from local self-government, and I'm familiar with the problems, I think I should take a little care of some things, means that they're being secured here from the cost of ministries and additional funds for county roads. Here, in particular Zagreb County i.e. The county administration of Zagreb County Roads has invested some more than 500 million kuna over the past 7 to 8 years in maintaining these county and local roads, and in order to improve these roads in some way in accordance with the Law on Public Roads and in accordance with the Road Safety Act, an additional minimum of 800 million kuna should be invested according to the assessment of the County Roads Administration. I think we should take care of a little bit, and I think we should redistribute 60 liters of fuel, so that one part of these funds can be rerouted to county roads, at least 30, 40 percent. Because here's the information that I've given, here's the Zagreb County of has a tremendously large traffic precisely because it's the City of Zagreb ring. Here, that's my suggestion. As for this debate on public roads, there was nothing fair to say about amending the law, but here I took this opportunity to suggest to you the problems of large county administrations, and I must stress that they are certainly far greater in continental Croatia where the winter is strong. We know what happens after every strong winter, that we open blast holes, that the roads become networky, that they are not simply for use, and all of these roads need reconstruction. Here in any case, I will support these amendments to the Law on Public Roads and these specific suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29795	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Puljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29796	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I will begin by saying that I will support these legislative proposals, because the amendments they propose are in fact a alignment with the Law on Elections of Mayors, Mayors and Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb, as well as amendments and additions to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, which have been abolished by municipal, city and county heads. These powers should be entrusted to the laws by bodies remaining in the new system of local and regional self-government. Directly elected mayors, mayors and mayors or municipal and city councils, county assemblies and the City of Zagreb City Assembly. The competencies that so far belonged to the chieftains, which have produced longer-term effects and are in the nature of management operations, have been transferred in principle to representative bodies, while competences in operational affairs are entrusted directly to elected mayors, mayors and mayors. That was the formula and criteria of this distribution. In the final proposal for a law amending the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime transport, so far the responsibilities of the municipal, urban and county headship, namely the determination of county and inter-zonal lines that improve maritime transport of populated islands and land settlements, with the previous consent of the Coastal Liner Agency, and the determination of local lines, the decision on concessions for county and local lines, etc. they have been transferred to an appropriate representative body in the new local self-government system, which is a good and logical solution. In the proposal for a Law amending the Law on Maritime Goods and Seaports, authorising the county headship to propose to the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure to be considered for certain reasons a narrow part of the land from the law defined, is transferred in a new system to a directly elected mayor. According to this proposal, the Mayor proposes to the Assembly that the authority to grant concessions to the City, i.e. the municipality is obliged to submit a written report to the Ministry once a year on the number of concessions issued for the use of maritime goods, obtain the right to propose a change in the classification of ports, the right of appointment of representatives of the County to the Board of the Port Administration, etc., and the County Assembly has been transferred to the so far the powers of the county headship, to decide on a concession for special use for the facilities of county importance, also for the economic use of maritime goods, to establish a port area open to public transport of county importance, as well as a decision to establish a port administration of regional importance, etc. For the same reasons of compliance with the new system of local administration and self-government i.e. In view of the suspension of the chieftains, they have been submitted to the third law amending the Law on Public Roads. The previous agreement on the conditions for the construction of connections and access to the public road would be given by the mayor in the future, and the decision on the basis of which works of construction and reconstruction for the county and local roads in the City of Zagreb will be taken instead of the headship by the City of Zagreb Assembly. And to conclude, I support all these changes, because they allow it to function from very recent elections, that a new system of local self-government and regional self-government without heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29797	Thank you. Replica, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29798	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague with the right to call and vote for this bill. Of course, and when it comes to concessions, I was very surprised that this opportunity wasn't this law too, this normative harmonisation that it didn't happen and there was a speech, voices were heard from the government, if I were to draw attention to it, but now nothing. Therefore, that the primary concession given to specific persons, as a social concession, did not have to go to the competition under the current law, did not have to be submitted to the competition. And with these last changes that we had 15. 12. In 2006, the primary concession is transformed into a long-term, even 50 years, and this is how the competition is played. We recently passed the Law on concessions, on public private partnership, therefore, as an important anti-corruption package of laws. However, it is incomprehensible that in this way the possibility is extended to 50 years of concessions given primarily to workers, employees of former port enterprises so that they decide to do so in the privatisation process and that is why the primary concession was given. And that's why, this is the possibility the law gave her, but then we heard the argument that she did, but she needs the consent of the local self-government unit. Now wherever such legal possibility is given, the units of local self-government grant approval, namely, such spatial plans, in which they draw new activities for primary port affairs. And that's how it comes to privatization of ports. Here's how you see it. And that's something we need to see. And if it didn't, and it's going to happen, even though I doubt it, because parallelly then the local self-government adapted to that, to that kind of kidnapping. Now, I expected such changes to happen here in this law, that we'd go back to the old, good solution we've had since 97 on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29799	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29800	Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29801	Replication response, Mr. Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29802	The answer to my colleague is very short. It is clear to us, not only from these three legislative proposals that we are discussing here, but from all seems to me to be 17, that the changes focus only on those changes relating to the leeway of the headship and which should be deployed to the institutions that remain, which are city councils, county halls, directly elected mayor or mayor. The changes in any kind of solution in the metricity whether it comes to concessions on maritime good, in ports, or anything else, have not touched, and I think it is good for the short time to focus only on what is a prerequisite that, after very recent elections, our local self-government can function without impasse as they have so far, according to previous legal solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29803	Second replica, Mr. Representative Borislav Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29804	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. So here is my colleague Puljic, so he absolutely pointed out what was needed to be pointed out in all three of these laws connected, so, in one debate. Perhaps with only one note, Col. Pulic, then referred to the co-operation of the newly elected city councils, i.e. the mayor, mayor and newly elected mayors. Because actually the city council, or the assembly, is now going to gain more, primarily in terms of four-year plans and the approval of certain investments that will actually be limited. So you can't talk about one of the mayors being what some of them are trying to tell the sheriffs today. I mean, there won't be any sheriffs, that's one thing. And on the other hand, I was going to say something about these concessions that Mrs. Marinovic was talking about. Namely, I'd just supplement to this exposure of yours that, I have a feeling that she doesn't actually realize that concessions are something that's in the interest of local self-government units. The local self-government unit knows its needs best. And in fact, the units of local self-government will be left with money, and it's not just a kidnapping, it's just a collection, and it's going to be a collection of regular incomes that have to stay in local self-government units because there's actually a concession going on and not somewhere else. And therefore, colleague Marinovic should know that this is something that is actually in the interest of units of local self-government and is best for them and they know their needs best.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29805	Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29806	I thank Mr. Vice President, I will try very briefly to look back at two of these three laws that are changing these proposals, amendments. So, as for the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime traffic, I remember getting ready for this debate, I looked at the stenogram of last debate in the past session, it was quite a heated debate, and fortunately it came out and that all those fears that were said there were still not realized, that, that, that the effects of that law on islands and islands were more positive and I hope that they would remain so. Why am I stressing this? I'm stressing because I'm saying I'm afraid to be present. In view of the budgetary resources allocated for the implementation of this law, they will not be able, of course, in the context of the crisis and the reduction of the budget that they will not be able to maintain the current level of quality of transport, therefore, and as regards, of course, ships and subsidies, etc. So I think that, in this sense, we can actually hope that regardless of these changes, this law continues to be implemented. As far as the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports is concerned, I think it is, in fact, expected and amended by this law they were Mr. Secretary of State at the meeting of the island council and announced. Since 3, 4 months have passed, however, we have not yet received changes to the law. This, of course, needs to be done and shared with me the powers of the county chiefship between the elected chieftains or councils and the congregations. But I think the right step would be to transfer some powers from the county to local self-government units. For example, 400 years ago, Dubrovnik was able to decide about its city port during the Dubrovnik Republic and today it is possible for the county to do so. Let's not just stay in big cities about one famous world beach, gold... in Bol continues to be decided by the county, the local self-government does not decide, although it is also about the beach and its management that depends on the life of the entire local community based on tourism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that even in the present law, there is the possibility that the County may transfer the concession authority to the city or municipality. However, I think that possibility should be made mandatory either as a concessionor or at least as someone who needs to give consent. You need to give consent to something like that. Otherwise, all these changes to the law actually cause us two dilemmas. It can therefore be observed that from a body that has decided on collective powers they are transferred to someone who decides individually, so mayor or mayor, because he has received greater authority and is transferred to another body that decides collectively. And when you look at it like that, then this division is kind of well balanced. However, when the situation is seen as being decided by the executive authority and one part is taken into account by the representative body which does not have to be in agreement, so with the executive authority, then the question arises and who is the authority in that unit of local self-government. As a result, some questions may arise, so whether all powers should be transferred to elected mayors, mayors and mayors. So personally, I think that in this part of the maritime good, it's better to make a more public and collective decision. However, by respecting the principle of executive and legislative authority, I again question whether the most important things will actually be decided by the one who has received the mandate from the citizens, but by some body that can't and no one can call him responsible until the election. For this reason these dilemmas can be observed, but it is now a matter for another debate and as Mr Puljic said, there is no time to discuss it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29807	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29808	A crucial debate, my colleague, is being held today between who decides. I think it's less important if the council is in a particular case, is the mayor, the captain. It's about what's being decided and how it's being decided. It's the only guarantee of good decisions, and someone doesn't want to hide behind the collectiveity or someone wants to spray and take responsibility for themselves as an individual. And so again, I thought this was an opportunity for the government to make significant changes to this law to protect the ports of the sea, to correct these last changes that took place two and a half years ago, which reduced the ability to manage, i.e. the possibility of public, open, maritime goods, or public ports, the possibility of narrowing down that space and opening up space to certain commercial purposes closed to the public, for public use, because this primary concession has turned and said so for free of charge. It would be even worse, or it would be better if it were completely privatised, not covered up, privatised, because in any case, they would also have certain obligations as owners. Because the concession is almost symbolic, and those who have received the primary concession will avoid a public tender, and in this way by amending that law, the law has made it possible for the resuscitation of concessions to be carried out for other jobs, commercial affairs. And that's the biggest problem. You have also received instructions, i.e. criticism of the State's Attorney's Office and opinion in this regard, and the professional public has recognized in this respect a real reduction in public space and ports.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29809	Please pay attention to “Feral”. Mr. Representative Vedran Rozic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29810	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here is how these three points are united I would look a little more at these laws that touch transport in line and occasional coastal transport and especially this Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. In fact, we in the units of the local self-government that are at sea certainly welcome these changes, and we particularly welcome the opening words of the secretary of state when he said that more and more of the powers that have been given to the county so far will be passed on to the units of local self-government. In fact, through the work of local self-government units, we see that these things have been developing slowly so far, and practically cities have not been able to master in the right way with those parts of the coast and the seas that belong to them. I believe that after these changes it will improve and that units of local self-government will be able to take much better care of their port area, about their aquarium and this second part of the line traffic that will have a greater impact there, and also that they will be able to manage better, that the revenues of urban and municipal budgets will be better filled. And on the other hand, all users and liners of this traffic, as well as potential investors, will be satisfied, because they will actually be able to move much better and faster. Here's another time I support the amendments to these laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29811	Okay. Final word, First Secretary of State Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29812	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Madam MPs and the MPs. Here are just a few words concerning the comments or suggestions made in the debate. First of all, I would like to say that as I said here in the Assembly when the amendment of the Law on the Sea Good Seas was made that the Government would refer to the Parliament, then I said either significant amendments to the law or a completely new Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. And Mr. Bauk earlier said that I mentioned that announcement at the meeting of the island council. It is true, then, that I said so, and it is true that we have made a whole new Law on Maritime Good, and that the debate on the Law on the Sea Good, I would say a public debate to which all mayors, mayors, mayors, coastal island municipalities and cities and counties as well as port administrations are invited. Therefore, all those participants in the port system will be held in early April at which the session will then introduce them to the bill's proposal and then go into the procedure afterwards. It is true that I said it then, and now I also want to do it again because it is already said in the debate here that we will leave significant powers which, when it comes to maritime goods and the port system in the bill of law to large or almost 100 percent of cities, and a large part of the county's powers that we will leave to the units of local self-government and to municipalities, or cities. It is also important to mention, and this is that we will resolve the issue of concession in a way that certain concessions will be left to units of local self-government and to all municipalities and cities for up to a certain number of years, and that only the counties, i.e. large cities that are in the Law on Local Self-Government and Administration recognise as large cities, are cities of more than 35,000 inhabitants and county headquarters. I must say that here I am not clear and I am not from the very replication of Mrs Antičević knew what she was replicating to Mr Puljić, but what was in the part where she referred to the law, I must say that things are different. Namely, not the primary but priority concession was given primarily to former social enterprises which were port operators in all Croatian ports. And this priority concession is based on the 1995 law, which is given to these port companies at the time as compensation for the fact that former employees, workers and previous employees of these companies could not enter into conversion because the property they were working on was a maritime good. And as compensation because they could not, like other Croatian workers in social enterprises, enter into full conversion and become the owner of what was the property of these companies, as compensation they were given a priority concession for 12 years. And by amending the 2007 law, we allowed these concessionaries who signed a concession agreement with port administrations that if they invest funds in that port system, whether in port infrastructure, or in port, the counterstructure, they would be dependent on the funds invested on the maritime good, primarily the sub-structure is proportionate to the amount of investment to extend the concession. And I think it's not good, but it's quite accepted by all the port companies, and we've been through the procedure in that sense. In parallel, it is possible for other concessionaries not on one occasion, but as long as concessionaries are on the maritime good side that when they invest significant financial resources in raising the quality of the port infrastructure and the superstructure that they can extend the concession once again depending clearly on the level of investment, the deadline for concession itself is extended. Therefore, this amendment of the law did not benefit anyone individually, nor was it intended to go in favor of private owners on the maritime good, but regardless of who is a concessionary, and in the first place when the port companies or at least the two largest port companies in Croatia, Luka Rijeka and Luka Ploče are still in significant majority ownership of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore they were wanted primarily to allow the concessionists to invest in that port system, to raise the quality of the port of substructure, and then to make it clear to them to extend the concession. As regards further allegations relating to whether it is good or not, a well-balanced failure of power to mayors, or to mayors, or city councils or chiefs and municipal councils. I would like to say, therefore, that there was not much debate, although the parliamentary Committee on Local Self-Government has submitted an amendment in which practically all the tasks that were in the jurisdiction of the county, municipal and city heads are transferred to the authorities of mayors, mayors or mayors. According to my information, not only on these three laws, but also on all laws that are in line with the Law on Local Self-Government, the same committee has practically submitted the same amendments. I do not enter other laws, but when it comes to the Law on the Sea Good, I think it would be a huge mistake, which would also be contrary to the existing law to concession individual ports and maritime goods in Croatia for 20 years to leave one person to be mayor or mayor or mayor who was elected to direct elections. According to the current Law on Maritime Goods in all ports, up to 20 years of concessioning belongs to the county and after 20 years to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When we decide who will be given the power of concession for 20 years, we have also been guided by the fact that neither the minister who has the entire maritime administration behind him, and the law does allow him to concession a single port for 21 years, that even less such powers should be given to the mayor, the mayor and the mayor who has a significantly weaker maritime administration behind him, and that he does so on his own for 20 years. Therefore, such an amendment is almost unacceptable that such important tasks as determine the fate of a maritime goods or a port system in a particular county belong to one person and that such an amendment in which such large powers would be given to a person is practically unacceptable. There you go, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29813	Thank you. Correction, Mrs. Anticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29814	It is incorrect what the gentleman said in this second part, the State Secretary when commenting on the amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. It was just his argument that nowhere stands nor is it to conclude from this amendment which speaks of it and the possibility of when the primary concession, i.e. primarily or now it is not at all important that such part of the title is converted into a concession without a competition in time of 50 years for re-use. You did not mention here that it was about re-use, and these changes are about re-use, meaning not for original port jobs, but for commercial jobs, and that's the biggest problem. That's the problem, Mr. Secretary of State, and that's exactly what the law says. The law is very short and has gone this way without a lot of noise and halabuka, but in this, the article 7 through 10 says, directly how, in which way the public space of the port administration, the port traffic is reduced and converted into commercial... /The speakers speak in the same voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29815	You're correcting what the secretary of state didn't say.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29816	Well, this is an injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29817	No injury, you correct what he didn't say.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29818	He said something else, and this is the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29819	Well, then you can't fix something he didn't say. You're correcting, saying you're correcting something he missed saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29820	So if it's Thursday he didn't say it was Thursday, that's the problem but he said it was Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29821	I think we should have a short course. I would suggest that you formulate your proposals for amending the Rules of Procedure to enrich the Rules of Procedure with such fine amendments as to correct the unspeakable allegations. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29822	11. Final proposal for a law amending the Law on maritime good and seaports. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 288. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Local, Regional, Regional Self-Government. I would like to ask the rapporteur's representative, State Secretary Branko Bačić, to show himself on the amendments of the Committee on Legislatives to Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29823	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29824	Accepted. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. This Regulation shall enter into
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29825	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29826	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29827	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29828	They become an integral part of the proposal. Thank you. Furthermore, the Committee on Local, Regional, Regional Self-Government, first amendment to Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29829	It's not acceptable, Mr. President. Therefore, it is the government's view that the work of concessioning maritime goods that has so far been carried out by the headship of this law is taken over by a representative body.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29830	Thank you. Any word from the board? If not, I am putting this amendment to a vote that is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 2 to Article 4
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29831	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29832	That amendment has been accepted. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Law on maritime good and seaports. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? This law was adopted unanimously by 102 votes along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29929	We are going to a united debate on the final draft law amending the Fire Protection Act, the Fire Department Act and amending the Protection and Rescue Act. - Final draft law amending the Fire Protection Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 294 - Final proposal for a law amending the Fire Department Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 297 - Final draft law amending the Protection and Rescue Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, local and regional self-government, internal policy and national security. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government and by the Committee on Law. State Secretary at the Interior Ministry Ivica Buconjic will further explain the proposals. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29930	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This is the three laws in which certain provisions of the articles of these laws are aligned with the Law on the Selection of Head of Units of Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. Thus, we have the Law on Protection against Fires of Change in Three Articles, in Article 3, in Articles 24 and 48. The law on fire protection where the "Head of the City of Zagreb, county, city and municipal headship" is replaced by the words "the mayor, mayor and municipal chief", means where the powers and powers of the head offices are transferred to the heads of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. In Article 2 or Article 24 of the Law, the same powers of headships shall be conferred on the mayor and the municipal chief. Article 3 of the amending Article 48 shall also replace the powers of the headship of the unit of local and regional self-government in the units of local and regional (regional) self-government. In the Law amending and supplementing the Fire Department, eight articles are amended. Articles 3. where the powers of the municipal or city headship of the City of Zagreb and the county headship are transferred to the municipal mayor or mayor and mayor of the City of Zagreb and the mayor and the authority of one or more municipal or city heads and headships of the City of Zagreb to the representative bodies of the units of local self-government. In Article 2 relating to Article 8, the same powers shall be conferred on the representative bodies of the local self-government unit from the headship, municipalities and the city of Zagreb. In paragraph 2, the powers of the headship, the municipalities, the city or the City of Zagreb shall be delegated to the representative bodies of the units of local self-government, in Article 17a of the headship to the municipal chiefs, mayors and mayors, in paragraph 5 of the municipality's headship shall be conferred on the mayors and mayors. And also in all the other articles. In the Protection and Rescue Act, we also have the application of three articles of the same harmonisation where Article 29 of the county headship is amended and in paragraph 3 of the same article it is specified that those powers for which it has been responsible are now made by the head of the municipality, the mayor and the mayor. And Article 29 is amended where it is also prescribed that during the process of drawing up and adopting external plans, the mayor is obliged to ensure the availability of the external plans set out in the Article... Paragraph 2 of this Act except for the parts of the plan which constitute the business secret of the operator. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I've seen the amendments to these three laws, and we'll come to the vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29931	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? Local and regional self-government? For internal policy and national security? I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives Mr. Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29932	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. The adoption of these Laws amending the Fire Protection Act, the Law amending the Fire Law and the Law amending the Law on Protection and Rescue, as it has already said many times today, is necessary to bring these laws in line with the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. Since the amendments and additions to this law have been abolished by the municipal, city or county chiefships and the City of Zagreb's headship, as provided for in the law of the beginning of the work of newly elected mayors, mayors, municipal mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb, so it was necessary to establish their powers, the competences of the chieftains contained in the laws so far as have been established as rights and obligations of other bodies. In all the laws, the jurisdiction of the so far elected heads of municipal and city and headship of the City of Zagreb as well as the county headship is now determined as the jurisdiction of the newly elected municipal mayors, mayors and mayors. In particular, only in the draft Law amending the Fire Department Act, the current jurisdiction of chieftains is delegated to the representative bodies of the local self-government units and in specific cases in the establishment of public fire departments, as well as the establishment of business and number of professional and voluntary firefighters in public fire departments. This shall not be transferred to the executive bodies, but shall be the jurisdiction of the representative bodies. Of course, it is left to encourage the creation of DVDs as socially useful activities, and the establishment of a central unit if there are more fire-fighting units in the area of local self-government units, then the representative bodies of the units of local or regional self-government would determine centrally there are consistent fire protection plans. In others, as I have said, the responsibilities of the municipal, urban and county authorities, or the mayor, are found to be the responsibilities of municipal, urban and county authorities. As has already been pointed out, and here in the HDZ Club, we warn the proposings of careful attention to the redefining of provisions defining transitional and final provisions, i.e. the start of entry into force of this law in order to avoid legal gaps, i.e. there is no legal body of the competent authority that will carry out these tasks when amendments and amendments to the law enter into force. Following this, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of these laws on amendments and additions to the three laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29933	Thank you. House of Representatives Club of HSS, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29934	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Given that this is a united debate, I will not make any particular views on each item of the agenda, but I will try to make a brief statement of the views of the Croatian Peasant Party's club on the proposed agenda points. The Croatian Peasant Party Club welcomes the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia aimed at harmonising the entire set of regulations with the provisions of the Law on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government and the Law on the Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb. Among other things, the area concerned with fire protection, fire and the protection and rescue of people and material goods as a very important area. As the proposed amendments to the regulations apply only to harmonisation in relation to the responsibilities of the municipal chief, mayor, mayor and mayor of the City of Zagreb, it is not only about the fundamental content of the matter of these laws, but only about the proposed changes in the transfer of powers. This time we do not have concrete remarks and proposals on the proposed texts, because we hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has properly detected and proposed the necessary amendments, i.e. provisions in the regulations relating to the powers of local leaders. Following the said club, the HSS believes that the proposed amendments will create assumptions that future elected local leaders and officials can carry out their obligations in the said set of rules in a smooth and high-quality manner, meaning in the proposed three laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29935	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29936	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So when we talk about a law where we have amendments on the protection and rescue of the Fire Protection Act, the Fire Protection Act, the Rescue Act, then we have to say that the amendments to the laws that are on the agenda relate to compliance with the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, and in the section relating to the abolition of chapters and strengthening the powers of leaders, units of local self-government and regional self-government. It should be noted that in July 2007, the Croatian Parliament has already stressed the importance of the leading role of the unit leader of local self-government and regional self-government in protecting and saving the population by amending the Law on Protection and Rescue. In accordance with these changes, the mayors of municipalities, mayors and mayors are handling and coordinating the search and rescue system in their area, and under the conditions of major disaster and disaster and directly command the operational forces of protection and rescue. These changes are the result of a sovereign system of demand and rescue in the Republic of Croatia, which, under the leadership of the State Protection and Rescue Authority, is increasingly gaining the frameworks of a system compatible with other developed European countries based on the joint and coordinated action of all participants from professional forces, to associations of citizens and reserve forces that are activated when necessary. Thus, the established system allows the available financial resources needed to develop capacity and carry out activities in protection and rescue actions to be used in the most rational way, while achieving the necessary level of protection in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. The activities of the programme's implementation during last 2008 in order to put an end to an open-air fire with a significantly less-fired surface with an increased number of initial fires, and to carry out more rescue actions, as was the case with the Slovak bus in Gospić, show that the system works. In a situation where we expect and almost implement the Memorandum of Accession of the Civil Protection Cooperation Mechanism of the European Union, a system of protection and rescue that acts is a factor of stability and ability for the Republic of Croatia to provide safe rest for its guests during the upcoming tourist season, and if the accident happens, appropriate assistance and care, which is not an essential part of the tourist offer in the modern world. I therefore support the amendments to the Law on the Protection of Rescue, the Fire Protection Act and the Fire Protection Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29937	Thank you. Mr. Representative Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29938	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. The provisions of the Law amending the Protection and Rescue Act should be aligned with the provisions of the Law on Local, Regional Self-Government. In the exercise of the rights and obligations in the field of protection of rescue, the municipal head, mayor or mayor shall draw up and propose to the representative authorities draft threat assessment plans with the prior consent of the administration. They shall also draw up and propose to the representative bodies draft plans for protection and rescue, financing of the system of protection and rescue in their area, proposals for general acts which prescribe measures of activity and tasks in the implementation of protection and rescue. They shall determine the operational force of protection and rescue and legal persons of interest in protection and rescue in accordance with the assessment and threat. They provide conditions for moving, handling,... and other activities and measures to protect and save people, property and the environment in accordance with the protection and rescue plans. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They also ensure the conditions for taking other measures that are important for eliminating the consequences of disasters and major accidents and also carry out other protection and rescue tasks established by law. In addition to the tasks referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 29, the mayor shall draw up and propose external plans to the representative body of the county. For the implementation of the obligations laid down in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, the municipal head, mayor and mayor shall be responsible, in accordance with the provisions of the law on local and regional self-government. During the process of drawing up external plans, the mayor shall ensure that the external plans referred to in Article 29(2) of this Act are made available to the public, except for parts of the plans representing the business secret of the operator. The municipal chief, mayor or mayor is responsible for notifying the public about the application of the external plan. In the process of informationing on the development of an external information plan for the population, it must contain the name of the operator, the address of the drive, the identification of the position of the information provider, the confirmation that the drive is subject to environmental protection regulations and that it has provided the information or safety report provided by the environmental protection rules. Information on how to alert the affected population in case of a major accident, information on actions and patterns of behaviour and which should be taken and adopted by the affected population in the event of a major accident. Confirmation that the operator shall organise appropriate activities, primarily integration and cooperation with emergency services in order to minimise the effects of major accidents. A guide to an external plan drawn up to overcome all the effects of an accident outside the event site with a recommendation that an accident should be handled according to the instructions and requirements of the emergency services. Details of where further relevant information may be obtained depending on the confidentiality conditions laid down in specific regulations. The county residents in the procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and, as soon as possible, have the right to make observations and suggestions on the external agenda. I will personally support the adoption of all three laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29939	Thank you. Mr. Representative Borislav Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29940	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. So here is the contribution of all these today's debates concerning the amendments and additions to the laws that have occurred with changes in the units of local self-government and these three points connected to the single debate actually confirm what we have discussed since this morning, which is that the functioning of the local self-government unit in the first place and it is unconstitutional regardless of the elections of 17 May is whether and what will follow, because many jobs can therefore not be stopped, life cannot be stopped because of the changes in the law, i.e. we go to direct elections, mayors, mayors and mayors, i.e. what we give quite, one new approach and pain about the signs of work, city councils, or mayors. In particular, these three laws are for the functioning of the local self-government unit because they may be in the period ahead, that is, that has not yet come of special importance. Namely, Croatian firefighters are preparing for a brand-new fire season even though it has not yet occurred and they are actually getting better equipped, dressed, saving Croatia's coast, people, our property and the like every year. In this, it should be said in fact that many plans are being developed now, training is being conducted equally in the coastal and coastal areas, and all together will unite this government's annual fire protection programme for 2009. If that were indeed so, we can also confirm that for 2009 the Government of the Republic of Croatia has singled out in defense of the fires of 32.5 million kuna and that is almost 6 times more than in 2007. Furthermore, there is also a project to equip new fire trucks. We also know that, in the amount of, therefore, the government bought 210 fire trucks worth 82m euros. And for the distribution of units of local self-government remains and arrives this year the last contingent with 31 vehicles. Therefore, these laws are necessary because, therefore, new Commissioners, mayors or therefore the old independent of that, together with the units in so far, with the congregations and councils, local self-government units will have to take steps in this direction to ensure that the overall, protection and rescue between them and the fires, fire, etc., therefore, remains in function as it has been so far. And in other cases, there is no newspaper because until now, mostly either the mayors, or the mayors of the municipalities, and in very frequent cases the mayors were at the head of the municipal, city or county headquarters in the protection and rescue or were gathering, starting with civil protection, well, whether which is formed until the fire department etc. Besides, why is all this really necessary again, because the training that started also needs to be continued independently of the changes in the law. Last year, 420 firefighters successfully completed their helicopter training. And yet this is unusual, signifying and important, both because of the coastal area and the coastal area where we often have burned areas. And this summer certainly special fire bases will be set up for the most endangered sites on the same islands, national parks and also coastal areas that are therefore directly related to them. It is precisely because of these reasons that I have now stated that the urgency of the adoption of these laws is necessary but primarily the functioning of local self-government units after the May elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29941	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on these three final drafts of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29942	13. Final draft law amending the Fire Protection Act. It was also an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 294. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government. I would like a representative of the motionary, State Secretary Ivica Buconjic, to show about the amendment to Article 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29943	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29944	Thank you very much. No more. Is there another amendment? Oh, that's right. [[No, there are two other laws of mine.]] Thank you. I am voting on the proposal for this law to amend the Fire Protection Act. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. This law amending the Fire Protection Act was adopted unanimously with 101 votes, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29981	We go to the following point: - Final draft law amending the law on the financing of public needs in culture, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 289; The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Education, Science and Culture, Local and Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture Zoran Šikic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29982	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It's about the technical harmonisation of this law. Thus, the entry into force of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on local, regional or regional self-government and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the City of Zagreb. The jobs of the chieftains are taken over by the municipal chief, mayor, mayor and mayor of the city of Zagreb as new executive bodies, and therefore the need for the urgent adoption of the Law amending the Law on the financing of public needs in culture is indicated in order to meet the deadlines envisaged. With that in mind of the respected lady and gentlemen, I ask you on behalf of the proposer to support this final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29983	Thank you. The committees. I'm opening a debate. HDZ club Mrs. Susana Bilić Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29984	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club has discussed the draft law amending the Law on the financing of public needs in culture and will support its adoption. Even though there is yet another one in a series of laws that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has sent to the Croatian Parliament for discussion and adoption, which must be brought into line with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, which has been established, the words “the Headship of the Units of Local, Or Regional Self-Government” are replaced by the words of the Mayor of the City of Zagreb, as well as the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the City of Zagreb, which states that the mayor of the City of Zagreb is the executive body of the City of Zagreb. Even though only two articles of the proposed amendments deserve attention for another reason we want to point out in this debate. Today we are changing or more precisely harmonising the law passed in 1990 whose first name was the Law on Culture Funds, which was renamed in 1993 to the Law on the Financing of Public Needs in Culture, which established the obligations of the Republic of Croatia, the County, the City of Zagreb, cities and municipalities on the adoption of a programme of public needs in culture, and the provision of budgetary resources for their implementation. Furthermore, the programme of public needs in culture covers all forms of promotion and promotion of culture and cultural activities that contribute to the development and promotion of all kinds of cultural life in the Republic of Croatia. In determining the programme of public needs in culture, the need and degree of development of culture and cultural activities is also needed. Since 1990 and 1993, so well-respected colleagues and colleagues have worked on all levels and will be in the future. And therefore, it is no wonder that the Ministry of Culture is in negotiations on Croatia's accession to the European Union, the chapter of culture is closed. I stress this in favour of the fact that the Republic of Croatia has good laws. For the coordination that we are carrying out today in paragraph 4 of Article 9a. a which so far reads “The Public Needs Programme referred to in the first, second and third paragraphs of this article brings the representative body of the county, the City of Zagreb, the municipalities and the city on the proposal of its headship together with the annual budget of the county, the City of Zagreb, the municipality and the city.” It's a finished quote. Only the words “his headship” are replaced by the words “the Mayor, Mayor of Zagreb, Mayor and Mayor of the City of Zagreb.” By adopting these and these changes, conditions are created and a guarantee is given that even after the direct elections for the municipal mayor, mayor and mayor in May of this year there will be no obstacles to the implementation of the Law on the financing of public needs in culture. From the above mentioned club, the Croatian Democratic Community supports the adoption of the Law on Amendments to the Law on the financing of public needs in culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29985	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29986	16, Final proposal for a law amending the Law on the financing of public needs in culture. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 289. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Local, Regional Self-Government and by representative Emil Tomljanovic. I ask Mr. Zoran Sikic, Secretary of State to declare the amendments. First, the Committees on Local and Regional Self-Government on Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29987	It shall not be accepted for reasons of Article 2. The final proposal of the law, with the exception of municipalities, towns and counties, speaks for no reason about the City of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29988	Thank you. Anybody on the board? There isn't. I put this amendment to the vote, which is otherwise not accepted by the Government. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. On article 2 of Mr Emil Tomljanović's proposal?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29989	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29990	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Law on the financing of public needs in culture. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 101 votes, the law was passed, the Law amending the Law on the financing of public needs in culture, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29991	We move to the next point - Final bill amending the Law on Technical Culture, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 302 The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Local and Regional Self-Government, Education, Science and Culture. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and Local and Regional Self-Government. State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports Želimir Janjic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29992	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the City of Zagreb, which was adopted in the Croatian Parliament and implies certain amendments to the Act on Technical Culture, in particular Articles 20, 22 and 24. They need to be changed in a way that has so far been assigned to the authority of the representative body of the local and regional, or regional self-government or representative bodies of the City of Zagreb. Furthermore, the Law on Technical Culture does not know the concept of children with special needs, which includes gifted children as well as children with difficulties, so the law requires the words “gifty and disabled children” to replace the words “child with special needs”. In addition, since the entry into force of the Technical Culture Act was '94. In all the provisions of the law, the Ministry of Culture and Education and Minister of Culture and Education, the Ministry of Technical Culture changed the term needed to replace the words “ministership responsible for science, education and sport” and, of course, the minister responsible for science, education and sport. The words “the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia” are replaced by the words “the Croatian Parliament”, and the words “The Committee for Education, Science, Culture and Sports of the House of Representatives” in the words “The Committee for Science, Education and Culture” which would ensure the continuity of legal provisions which would also refer to the bodies responsible for technical culture in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29993	Thank you. The committees. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29994	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, we have yet another set of laws that, by adopting a new Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government and the Law on the City of Zagreb, must comply with this law. It is important to point out that the area of technical culture is an extremely important area, especially in the adoption of public needs in the bodies of units of local self-government and regional self-government, that this is an area where it may be less talked about than other areas of culture, but the fundamental objective of the law on technical culture is to promote technical culture, creative, scientific work, education and education of young people, in particular to describe the technical description of young people, and that technical culture is indeed one significant area that was organized in the late 19th century, I would say early in the 20th century '46. In 1946, by a roof organization of the National Technology, which in the 1990s turned into a community of technical culture that currently has 33 city communities, 18 county, 16 national alliances, so a broad area. This is a very important area that has certainly encouraged you, I can tell you many young people to type in professional professions, technical, etc. technical interests. I had to say this, although what is before us is this amendment and complementing only the harmonisation of the laws mentioned, and as the secretary of state said, the jobs that were now entrusted to the authorities of our cities, municipalities and counties are assigned to mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, or representative bodies. Since this law has not been amended since 1994, so this time some have been harmonised and changed, I would say technical changes have been made. The secretary of state has now said changes in the names of the competent ministry, and even of this Croatian High House of the Croatian Parliament, even committees that were responsible for the debate on technical culture. Also, the name and term of gifted and disabled children for children with special needs still, I must tell you the same question and what children with special needs are. Certainly, on the trail of what is coming, which is primarily the new systems of organisations in our local units of self-government and regional and regional administrations that the Croatian Democratic Community will support this proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29995	Thank you. The committees? Thank you. Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29996	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In order not to repeat myself, I think this is the same thing I was talking about when it came to amending the Law on the financing of public needs in culture. What I would like to make in my debate is another good law that the Republic of Croatia has, not that it is important that it is a good law, but that it is applied all these years since 1993 with amendments from 1994 showing the quality of this law and its application in practice both at the state and at the level of units of local and regional self-government. The secretary of state said it was a matter of technical changes and it is okay to implement changes and changes to the name of the ministries, and not only of the ministries but also of jurisdiction because it is '93. technical culture was in another ministry, at the Ministry of Culture, it is today at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports, but it is less important. It is important that the application of this law shows its quality to those to whom it applies, which are all associations of technical culture and users of these associations, i.e. members, which are children and young. These amendments and additions also create the prerequisites that, even after the elections, direct elections for municipal mayors, mayors and mayors in the Republic of Croatia that will be made in May of this year, can be followed by the Law on Technical Culture, because the jurisdiction that the municipal authorities, the city's chieftains and the county heads of the law will be transferred to the bodies of the executive authority, i.e. municipal chiefs, mayors and mayors. From the above, I will support the amendments to the law on technical culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29997	Thank you. Mr. Agent Anton Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29998	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. Well certainly this law needs to be passed and amended not only in this technical section. I would refer, however, to the introduction of something to say about the very Law on Technical Culture, which was passed in '93, that is, with the amendments of '94. the year and which was very important both in local communities and at national level because this law regulates the activity of technical culture through education, education and training to acquire technical and information knowledge, skills and inventive work. This was especially important in the 1990 ’ s when information sciences began significantly. About this law, i.e. Education, education and training should also be linked to extracurricular activities. The activities of technical culture are carried out by companies, legal persons and citizens on their own. Funding is carried out by its own activity, membership donations, but from the state and county, city and municipal budget. It is particularly important for those local communities that have technical schools or where these associations are made from the ranks and primary schools to finance local communities, and this will be the future and obligations of mayors, municipal mayors, mayors and mayors of Zagreb to help more financially because these activities continue through other forms. The activities are thus carried out by associations of technical culture, companies and legal persons and persons through independent work. The implementation of this programme is manifested through public needs related to the content of education and training, reviews, exhibitions, which is very important, information and publishing activities, research and development and professional work, then information systems, then awards of technical culture, technological innovation, promotion of Croatian technological innovation. Local communities also have similar objectives related to specific programmes, means promoting technological innovation. The law also set a state reward, and it is very important to mention because we at the local levels that we are the leaders to award certain recognitions. This is good that at the state level there is one such reward. It is legally defined here and I can see that so far it has not been changed as an annual prize and a reward for life's work because at a local level it is difficult to determine and assess all values when someone also deals with these technical innovations. And in the end, I would say what my colleagues said, so we are harmonising this law here with the amendments to the laws that are certainly necessary. I would not say that they are late, they are at the right time and should be harmonised in order to ensure that these activities, especially in those environments that have greater activity in the field of technical culture, can be very much funded and they are necessary. So, as already said, these powers from the level of headship are passed on to municipal mayors, mayors, mayors of the city of Zagreb and therefore I support this law in the first and second readings in the emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u29999	Thank you. State Secretary Željir Janjic final review. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30000	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. Thank you very much for the discussion of all those who have joined and those who participated in the work of the committee who had this bill on the agenda with the final draft law. Dear Representative Mance, I am pleased that you also mentioned the award for technical culture "Faust Vrančić", so the Croatian Parliament is actually from its level which directly appoints members of the Committee for the award of technical culture "Faust Vrančić" said how much he cares about technical culture in Croatian society. Of course, this works extremely well, that this is a prestigious reward not only for the work of life but also for the annual prizes and indeed a beautiful practice that we are sure will continue. Furthermore, of course we are grateful to everyone who supports the development of technical culture in our schools and through free activities and through extracurricular activities, but also to you who in the state budget determines every year the funds for the Croatian community of technical culture, I will remind you that it is the lottery assets of one piece, that it is 6.5% and that it is an amount of approximately 15 million kuna, I would say not a small amount but one part and directly from the state budget or the state budget. It is all a guarantee that we will continue to take care of technical culture and invite our students to enroll in such colleges that at this time and also back several years are indeed deficiting, so in any case, all efforts that are going towards these improvements should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30001	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30002	17., Final proposal for a law amending the Act on Technical Culture, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 302. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed, amendments were submitted by the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government, MP Ivanka Roksandić and the Committee on Law. I ask Secretary of State Željir Janjic to be shown about the amendments. First, the Legislative Committee on Article 3?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30003	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The amendment of the Legislative Committee is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30004	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government, 1st Amendment to Article 2?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30005	The amendment of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government cannot be accepted. Given that the programme of public needs in the technical culture for which the funds are provided from the budget of units of local and regional self-government together with the annual budget is adopted by the representative body, units of local and regional self-government. We believe that this same representative body should prescribe criteria and deadlines for determining the public needs and ensuring the means for those needs, the way they are deployed and assigned, as well as the way they are used. We also believe that only representative bodies as the highest bodies of units of local and regional self-government can decide whether certain professional tasks relating to the budgetary financing of technical culture will be entrusted to the Croatian community of technical culture, i.e. to associations of technical culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30006	Thank you. Is there anyone on behalf of the board? Yeah. I'm withdrawing the amendment. We have further amendments to Mrs Ivanka Roksandić, vice president of the club, amendment to Article 2?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30007	The Proposer shall accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30008	Thank you. This amendment has been accepted. Thank you. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Act on Technical Culture. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. This Final Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Technical Culture was adopted unanimously with 101 votes, together with amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30009	We're going to the next point. - Proposal for a decision to declare "A Day of Consciousness in the Republic of Croatia", Proposer: The Government of the Republic of Croatia discussed the Committee on Health and Social Care and the Committee on Legislatives. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care Dorica Nikolic will further explain the proposal for a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30010	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. You are presented with a proposal for a decision on the declaration of "Knowledge Day in the Republic of Croatia". So, the government proposes to declare June 22nd the Day of Consciousness in the Republic of Croatia. And we suggest that this decision enters into force on the day of its adoption and will be published in the People's Newspaper. The reasons you have below in this proposal show that the problem of torture is one of the more pronounced in Croatia, so about 2.4% of the total population has problems, especially preschool age in the Republic of Croatia with torture and with this problem we said we faced 70,000 children and adults, which is 1.7 of the entire population. As early as 1998, the United States declared the Day of Consciousness on the Stabbing of October 22nd, which has since actually been marked as the International Day of Consciousness. Since Croatia has also signed a Memorandum of Social Inclusion where it has committed itself to protecting citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia or would lead them to situations that are not equal to others or that have some of the difficulties that would put them at risk in social inclusion, we believe that because people who have problems with torture believe that they have shown some of the research that they have some influence, in fact they are somewhat discriminated against both in the educational, professional and social sphere, or that they are not as successful as those who do not have this speech flaw. It is particularly stressed that the accelerated pace of life and the accelerated pace of communication are such that there is no time and that it does not want to be heard if a person with something to say may have more difficulties than others. Therefore, we also believe that this proposal is marked on 22 October as the International Day of Consciousness on torture is actually a single contribution to the need to improve the quality of life and communication of this group in the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia, so I ask you to support this decision proposed by the Government to declare on 22 October the Day of Consciousness on torture in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30011	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the word, legislation, health care and social care? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30012	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here we are witnessing a rapid pace of life that is reflected in all areas and, of course, is particularly reflected at the level of communication in a way that has reached almost unsuspected proportions, and thus the speed of communication has almost exceeded and ruled out its contents. Of course, in these circumstances it is necessary to especially respect and understand people who have difficulty in communicating and these are persons who torture, who have something to say and should not be important in what way. The definition of stuttering is listed as one syndrome which connects it to a whole range of symptoms and circumstances of their appearance and their organic basis and probably similar mechanism. The theory has more because there are various profiles of waists that can't be matched. Ichologists say it's a functional disorder, a psychiatric neurotic component that states, a neurologist's organic background, etc. But we are perceived as one speech disorder in which speech is interrupted by repeated and prolonged speech sounds, slogans, or words, or a person cannot begin to speak the word. Of course, these interruptions are followed by other manifestations, which is eye blinking and various shaking of lips, jaws, etc. unusual forms of behavior. Of course, stuttering follows the often accelerated pulse, redness, sweating, spreading communities, tension of the muscles of the tongue and the face. It occurs at a child's age of 2.5 years 2 to 5 years and, as Mrs. Secretary of State said, about 2.4% of children have these disorders, 1% of adults, so there are about 70,000 children and adults in our country who have disorders of stuttering. It appears three times more in a boy than in girls, more often in twins, left-handed people. Of course, it is necessary to say that almost 70% of these difficulties can be done with the help of the parents, says often they have to understand their child, talk to him clearly and easily, etc. It is certain that the profession also contributes here, so it is necessary to mention the Suvag Poliklinika in this place, and then the Foniatrian Centre of the Ministry of Health at Shalata, and then we have in northwestern Croatia the General Hospital in Varazdin, and the special place of the Association "Hinkofreund" has the same situation in this area since 2000. Torture occurs in many different situations, can last long and become a habit, and what is a worrying environment most often considers torture an abnormal form of behavior, some people make fun of it, and so it comes to a negative picture of themselves in a person who stutters. A person feels fear, because he thinks it won't work, fears cause physical tension, it's all that vicious circle that's there. So unfortunately, stuttering more and more in the way of life. And this research... What Mrs. Secretary of State mentioned led to the result that these persons who struggle to, of course, slow them down in professional and all sorts of other developments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, in the world it's known, of course, and in America they've noticed since 1998 that these people have problems and social worker Michel Sugerman is who the social worker himself was and he's had problems about stuttering and in some ways they started to mark that day on October 22nd when the day is marked and with the goal of abolishing discrimination etc. And help the quality of life of people who stutter. In our country, certainly this Association "Hinkofreund" has some importance that has been involved in this part, and we are also signatories to this Memorandum of Social Inclusion and therefore the Government of the Republic of Croatia is also aware of these circumstances. It therefore proposes that this October 22nd be declared the Day of awareness of stuttering in the Republic of Croatia as a necessary condition for improving the quality of life and communication of persons who torture. Surely it will contribute to a better understanding. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support this proposal to mark that day and I believe everyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30013	Thank you. SDP representative club Mr Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30014	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The SDP club absolutely supports the decision to declare the day of awareness of stuttering in the Republic of Croatia. We believe that communication is very important for the development of each individual and everything that makes communication difficult is also the possibility of the maximum development of every human being. For this reason, it is vital that a day like this emphasizes the importance of the problem of helping all who have problems with torture. However, what the SDP club absolutely wants to highlight during the debate on this subject, that by declaring another day, on the day of awareness in this case of stuttering in the Republic of Croatia, it will be insufficient if this activity does not follow the activities of the ministry and the government in a way to ensure a sufficient number of logos and psychologists in all parts of Croatia that will allow all those who have problems with torture to solve this problem. Just a declaration one day, a day dedicated to a disease doesn't mean unless it's followed by quality actions specifically from word to action, so in this case, an increase in the number of required logos, psychologists. And we at the SDP club insist that by the day of awareness of stuttering in the Republic of Croatia one plan is adopted in order to ensure that number in the Republic of Croatia in the coming period.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30015	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30016	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will, of course, support this proposal for a decision to declare October 22nd on a national day of awareness of torture. What I will repeat, however, for who knows which time, and Mr. Vice President, please and members of the Assembly Presidency please, look at this humble explanation more about Michael Shugerman than about what he did, than what was done in Croatia, and it has been done a lot in this area, he has done a lot. Well, it would be good to try really little in the future to explain to us on at least a page and a half of two that are professional associations, which are specialised institutions dealing with this category of children and adults, how much they are dealing with, how much funds are allocated to these activities, are these resources sufficient, what is the effect of these therapeutic procedures, what plans does the Ministry of Health and Social Care have for the future, what are they planning for that day? So, we're gonna declare the day, what are we gonna do that day? What is the role of the Croatian Parliament perhaps? What is the role of Parliamentarians, our committees? That would be the data that I certainly deserve to be found on paper, to talk about them, to see what we've done. And that's what Michael Shugerman did in the U.S.A. I think it's less important to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30017	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30018	Dear Mr. Vice President, ma'am, secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about stuttering, then we can talk from the definition that it's a speech disorder that manifests itself in the interruption and irregularity of the speech process due to the cramping of the organs of articulation, phony, breathing. And in this lack, therefore, a fluent speech has been disturbed. Or his rhythm and pace. In stammering persons, a series appears... psychic and physical traits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thus, torture cannot be seen as a disorder for itself, but rather as a complex of characteristic symptoms and physical state of personality that deviates from normality in which speech disorder dominates. Science used to predominate the belief that the causes of torture were certain defects, abnormalities of the speech organs. More recent scientific studies disputed the accuracy of this view and found that torture in most cases is functional and that it occurs as a voice neurosis, or logo neurosis. Since torture has caused social ties and relationships in society, this speech deficit is the most severe neurosis. A small number of torture cases are based on pathological phenomena, nervous system or peripheral upper organs. It's just these rarer cases of organic mutilation. The literature shows that the torture occurred back in ancient times. I don't think it's gonna hurt the history of that view. It's supposed to be as old as the speech itself. It is believed that the stuttering persons were among all the nations in the past as they are today. Let's just say that in the old age, they were engaged in torture by Hippocrates, Aristotle. The data they left show that Hippocrates viewed this speech disorder as the result of peripheral speech organ deficits and irregular speech and opinion ratios. Aristotle thought the cause of stuttering was the irregular formation of speech organs in particular of language. And Plutarch left a report on the torture of Demosten and the way he got rid of this speech deficit. And as it is known about Demosten, he spoke with a rock under his tongue on the shore of the sea with the noise of sea waves. And after his personal treatment, he became a famous speaker. Also, Claudius, the Roman emperor was also a stutterer. When we reach the Middle Ages, the cause of torture in diseases and organic anomalies was sought and treatment was reduced to medication and clinical interventions. In the first half of this century, torture begins to be studied at clinics of medical schools, institutes and in pedagogical practice, which employs a number of scientific and scientific fields of psychiatry, philosophy, psychology, phony, linguistics, pedagogues. I say never better and never worse information at the same time than this conscious and transparent display of the phenomenon of stuttering. It's better because these sources inform to the end and worse because they face a man with the truth again to the end. Here's that Demosten now, along with Claudia, says, "I'm finally on my own surprise, and I've found that I can speak as well as anyone else. But the point is only when I recite.". There's trouble stuttering. The stutter only stutters when he speaks normally. Thus, even to Mosten's overtones of sea waves, it was not normal to speak as well as his fiery speeches from the one against Aristocrats, through the loudspeakers,... The speeches that made him the greatest Athenian speaker were not actually a normal speech. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now that I've given a little piece of history of the situation in the Republic of Croatia that my colleagues have already said almost everything. 2.4% of the total population of preschool children face this problem and around... means thousands of children and adults making up 1.7% of the total population. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As was said... began the idea of marking the day of awareness of stuttering, with the goal of not knowing about the problem of stuttering and the infrequent discrimination of persons who torture replacements by accepting and respecting human differences. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in the end, I will highlight a wonderful example of a radio journalist, Mr. Pere Chimbur, who has mastered his speech flaw, i.e. stuttering. Namely, speaking about his stuttering and the way he mastered it, the Čembur account and its surroundings that often had no understanding for people who tortured, about families and traumatic experiences from childhood during World War II. In order for anything to be mastered and tortured, I guess, first of all, to overcome yourself, without complexes, to examine your own insides, to look for the deepest fears and win the willlessness, says Pero Čimbur. Help can come from the outside, he's convinced of Chimbur, but the key to healing is still in man himself. And it's possible to find out if the tracker isn't fooling himself. And now a friend asked him and said what you could have accomplished in your life if you hadn't been stuttering. And he shuts up when he gets the answer, says maybe none of what I've achieved. Therefore, dear colleagues, I would like to join the Government of Croatia's proposal to declare October 22nd the Day of Consciousness in the Republic of Croatia as a necessary condition for improving the quality of life and communication of persons who are torturing, referring to the appeals of colleagues from the SDP, colleagues of Jovanovic, colleagues of Doric with whom I support their demands in their search. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30019	Thank you. Mrs. Brankica Crlenko.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30020	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The international day of awareness of torture has been marked since 22 October 1998 with the aim of getting to know the public about the problem of stuttering and respecting human diversity. Three times more men suffer from stuttering than women and 70% of children who torture have between 2 and 5 years of life recover with minor or no treatment. When the older man who was blind and stammering journalists asked what was more difficult for him through his life, he responded after a brief thought – torture. And when he wasn't surprised, he was asked for an explanation, he explained. Blindness is constant, and me and the people around me know that as a blind man, he simply doesn't see it, so they and I act accordingly, there's no surprise. On the other hand, torture is a source of constant surprises for me and for the people I communicate with. I keep waiting when I'm going to stutter and the environment wonders, and it doesn't understand how I usually talk normally, and then all of a sudden I'm stuck, I'm out of breath, I'm out of breath, and I can't go on. People don't know how to behave at that moment and what they'd think of me. A similar surprise and discomfort are felt by many when they first meet the person who stutters. The question arises why some children stutter. The stuttering is characterized by an unfavourable, unusually common and long delay in the voice stream. Those who stutter know what they're trying to say. Perhaps the same word or sentence that they have now been stuttering for hundreds or even a thousand times earlier has been fluent. Yet this time, despite all their efforts, I cannot say it easily and smoothly. All in all, it's quite frustrating, because despite the fact that we know so much about stuttering, we still can't give a clear answer to why. It seems that children begin to torture for various reasons that change from child to child and sometimes continue to torture even when the initial causes are removed. Some emotional stress, whether it's a very disturbing event or a series of stressful situations, can shake each and every one of us's speech, especially a child who's particularly sensitive, because he's still learning to manage his feelings and finds a lot of things scary. A child may begin to fear certain speech situations because they are similar to the one in which he once had difficulty. Yet, not all children who experience similar experiences begin to torture. Even normal influences as shown by almost every child can become the cause of the disorder. Only a child or his surroundings can react to such stasis so that the child feels the need to overcome them. The more effort is made not to stop this stalemate, the stronger the environment shows a growing dissatisfaction. There begins a closed circle where the child doesn't see a way out, and he doesn't even know how to control his speech. What should parents do? First of all, listen to what the child says. To try to be such a listener with whom a child wants and loves to talk because such a conversation is pleasing to him. Let the child know that they love him and that he can always count on their support. To encourage him to develop his interests and abilities, to make friends with other children. In this way and in other ways, help him to be content with himself. Find activities that can be carried out together with their child or day - to - day life obligations that the child may be able to help them, for a child who has a need for a close and secure relationship with his important family member, the need to feel parental love and pride. And ultimately, it's very important to allow a child to finish speaking your mind. Don't do it for him. For the first time, many who have devoted their stuttering to adulthood prove that with self - discipline and self - discipline, what at the very least can come to the attention of a speech that does not draw attention to the form, which in all speech situations can express an opinion, emotion, or desire. So you can lead a normal and often extremely successful life. There are many examples of successful self - therapy, but all of which are easier to implement with the help of a logo that will teach a person to achieve and maintain liquid speech, reduce fear or avoid speech situations, and generally improve communication skills. It is only a question of whether a person who stutters will choose passivity or actively engage in changing his speech behavior and reactions, establishing control over his speech. There are not a small number of people in the world who feel that torture has helped them to become both private and professionally better and more successful. It pointed out to them the need for continuous lifetime work on them, which should be carried out and maintained in order to maintain control of speech, but also on their own life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30021	Thank you. Ms. Representative Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30022	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, I will immediately say that I support the Proposal for a Decision to declare the Day of Recognition in the Republic of Croatia. This problem as a society is, in fact, minimally informed, and I think that this day's announcement will increase awareness of society's understanding and contribute to the development of a picture of stereotype and discrimination against people who have a problem with torture. The torture occurs in all cultural and social groups and it is a voice rhythm disorder, which we could already hear, which actually means that the voice fluid is disrupted. He is the most famous and unique speech disorder that is easily recognized, and every year we have heard in Croatia about 4,000 children with certain language and speech interference are discovered. We also heard that between 20% and 25% of children have some voice disorders, language voice communication, about 1% of adults in the world are kittend, and about 2 and a half percent occur in preschool children. Also, three times more common among left-handed and twins, 70,000 people are in Croatia who are stuttering, and in the world about 60 million. So these figures clearly indicate that it actually affects people of all ages, but most often children between the second and sixth years of age, so at a time when they develop speech. And what's really important to raise awareness when we talk about that day of our awareness of the problem of stuttering is we ask ourselves how do we actually accept people who torture? Are we tolerable of them, so we listen to what they say, not how they actually stutter? And that's what we have to make ourselves aware of. We also know that Newton was stuttering, that Marilyn Monroe was stuttering, that he was stuttering Winston Churchill, and the torture in our children's society is still taboo topic, and it's not really being talked about at home or at school, and therefore we need to declare that day in October 22nd as the Day of Consciousness and Facing, in fact, with that problem. Parents often will not admit to themselves or others the problem that their child has, and then they call different names the problem. He is often associated with breathing problems and describes various other phenomena. I believe that a lot of us will be moved to speak openly, and then the child will actually understand that we understand him and that we want to help him. Teachers often also do not recognize that the child is stuttering because it is often much easier to tell a child that he does not know the answer to the asked question and would rather get a unit than expose himself to the risk of being mocked by the class. Often I can't even say my problem, because they can't define it or shape it, and that's why we actually have a day ahead of us when we're going to put ourselves in the position of identifying the problem and, of course, tend to solve it in the easiest way possible. To those who do this is actually an obstacle and actually make it easier for themselves to go further and achieve the best results in accordance with their psychophysical, intellectual abilities as well. Here's another very short one. counterpart Kundic cited an example of radio journalist Mr. Pera Čimbur, who in the 50th year of life overcame the problem of stuttering. And when, among other things, what he didn't suggest was and he agreed to make one theatre performance, but provided it wasn't a tragic, comic show, it was a drama. In order to access the problem professionally, another dimension should be touched as well, and these are areas where parents are educated. Of course, it is a space where there is also a need to further educate both breeders and educators in kindergartens, teachers, but also logos that exist in the world today, because there are 250 different methods for treating torture. In the end, the message is that I believe that we all actually accept people who are different, different from ourselves. We must not forget patiently and carefully listen to what a person who stutters tells us instead of listening to him speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30023	Thank you. Final review by State Secretary Dorica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30024	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for supporting this decision by the Government, and I would like to emphasise thank you for all the recommendations and concerns you have made on this marking of the day, that it is not just the marking of the day, but that it is one concern for children and adults who have this problem. Be assured, we are now being prepared, you know that we are already at the end of the Social Care Act. We're working closely with the education-rehabilitation college. The Law on Logopedic Activity and the Logopedic Chamber is also being prepared, because believe in Croatia there is money but there are no logos. And therefore, we must all stand together, together and agree on how to actually raise a good logo first, but then somehow let's say it uglyly, not only in Zagreb or in large cities, but also in smaller cities throughout the Republic of Croatia. It's the biggest problem right now as far as the logo is concerned. I thank you for all the good suggestions, they will be adopted, and I hope that when we discuss this, you will be satisfied, and then we will respect all your remarks in favour of children and adults who are stuttering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30025	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30026	Proposal for a decision to declare the Day of Consciousness in the Republic of Croatia. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on a proposal for a decision to declare the Day of Consciousness in the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 101 votes, a decision has been taken to declare the Day of Consciousness on torture. The decision was made in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30027	We're going to the next point. - Final draft law amending the Law on Special Tax on tobacco products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 283 The Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, European Integration, Finance and the State Budget, Agriculture and Fisheries and Rural Development. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Zdravko Maric will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30028	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Therefore, a few words on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Special Tax on Tobacco Products. Therefore, the Law on specific taxes on tobacco products regulates the payment of a specific tax on tobacco products produced and sold in the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia or is imported into that area. The Law on specific taxes on tobacco products defines the tax base and the level of the specific tax on tobacco products. Here I would just like to repeat briefly and remind you that at the end of last year, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Special Tax on Tobacco Products has been maintained by groups of cigarettes A, B and C. However, changes have been made as follows. First, a new excise base was introduced, i.e. 1000 pieces of cigarettes and a retail price of cigarettes, as well as a specific introduced and proportionate tax, a special tax which is calculated on the newly introduced tax base, i.e. on the retail price of cigarettes. At the same time, a gradual elimination of the various excise burdens of cigarette groups was carried out in such a way as to reduce the tax burden between Groups A, B and C by 50% from 1 January 2010, and it was intended to fully align, or even the tax treatment of all these groups from 1 January 2010. Specific for the groups of cigarettes of Group A, therefore prescribed from 1.1. 2009 175 kuna of a specific tax tax on 1000 pieces of cigarettes and a proportional special tax of 30% of the retail price on cigarettes of Group B 197 and a half kuna per 1000 pieces with the same proportional special tax of 30% and on cigarettes of Group C 310 kuna per 1000 pieces with also proportional, special tax of 30%. From 1 January 2010, a specific tax was intended to be for all groups of cigarettes 225 kuna per 1000 pieces, with the retention of this proportional, special 30% tax. The European Commission welcomed the readiness of the Republic of Croatia to neutralise differences in tax treatment among the groups in which cigarettes were classified in Croatia, but also as regards the time dynamics of achieving tax treatment equality for all cigarettes asked for full equalisation to be carried out as soon as possible. I would just remind myself that, therefore, the European Commission has been investing for a long time and has made one complaint that this, i.e. the existing treatment between the groups of cigarettes A, B and C was inconsistencies or was not in line with the 2001 Stabilisation and Association Agreement. In addition, the new proposal, starting from 1 June 2009, introduces the same specific rate of tax on all cigarettes of 180 kuna per 1000 pieces, with the retention of a proportional special tax of 30% of the retail price of cigarettes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30029	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? For European integration? Finance and the state budget? For agriculture, fishing and rural development? The chairman of the board, Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30030	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development discussed the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Special Tax on Tobacco Products as an interested working body. The opening argument was submitted by the applicant's representative, and the debate provided data regarding the growth of tobacco production, cigarettes, state support and exports and imports of tobacco products and expressed concerns about domestic tobacco and tobacco production. It is expressed dissatisfaction that the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Tax on Tobacco Products, which took effect 2.5 months ago, raises this most profitable culture and strong export component. It is also a problem for the inability of a quick orientation to another production. Since production contracts are concluded for this year, it is doubtful who will buy the manufactured tobacco. Given the strong influence of multinational companies and their struggle to get another segment of the market, a proposal has been tabled for the proposed law to be held in the first reading. The proposal is supported by most votes, 4 votes for and 3 votes against, so the board proposes to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusions. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Special Tax on tobacco products is hereby adopted. I 2, Any objections to the proposals and opinions will be forwarded to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30031	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, we're still going to absorb this point, and then we're going to conclude today's session, and then tomorrow we're going to start with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions. So we know how to deal with each other. And we won't be making a mess tomorrow. The law on causing riots. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30032	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. What I'd like to know, here's to start, who's all funded by the tobacco industry in the Republic of Croatia? I mean clearly, political parties, but that's not gonna happen soon enough. But what's interesting? Before the law appeared in the parliamentary procedure, before the law appeared on the government's pages, it was already commented understandablely from some circles. A man asks himself how? However, in order for someone not to call me here personally, I think of Adris more here than the Parliament, I will openly say that TDR or Adris is, however, an important national company. I am clearly not a monopoly, but I will also be silent if it is a monopoly from my court, even if all the profits on that basis went to Zagreb, which will say the state budget from which we, come on, we have to acknowledge that we are getting paid. As far as we're going, we'll see. I hope it doesn't come into question and clearly the rest goes into private pockets. The point is, I'm not going to mention the numbers now, about the huge profit. I could talk a lot on this subject, but I'll just say one thing, they can't be given one square meter per second today. tourism land, which makes some of the concert's notes go to the elections. Let them go, I don't care, but that status so-called. tourism land should be resolved in a way that remains owned, not by the state, but by returning to local self-government. The fact that some of them have more than they own Roman emperors, let them go to the conscience of all these governments, that's what we wanted, that's what happened. But what's the point? So let me quote one text. All cigarette manufacturers, both foreign and domestic, will, regardless of the quality of cigarettes, pay the same amount of excise duties to the State. Thus, the state will collect at 1,000 cigarettes a excise charge of 180 kuna, which is 3.6 kuna per box, and will charge a special 30% tax at a retail price as it has so far. This imposes on cigarettes for the sake of harmonisation with European legislation are changing for the second time since 1 January of this year because the European administration was not satisfied with the first proposal which, in its opinion, discriminated against foreign cigarette manufacturers in Croatia. In December, Croatia, wishing to comply with the European Union's demand for the equalisation of cigarette manufacturers, introduced a excise duty of 175 kuna per 1,000 cigarettes to those cheapest, 197 kuna per category b, including the most sold cigarettes in Croatia that are produced, clearly in Adria and 310 kuna per cigarette group c. In all three cases, a special 30% tax was also charged. However, the explanation that excise duties are different as they are also of different quality was not sufficient for the Union. The European Union has estimated that it does mean discrimination among producers, and now we need to change excise duties as soon as possible so that we can start negotiations on chapter 16 concerning the understandable tax policy. Thus, only the fixed excise duty on the most sold cigarettes will fall by 36 limes per box, to those most expensive for 2.9 kuna per box, while the excise duty on the cheapest cigarettes will be higher by a dozen limes. According to this calculation, a box of import cigarettes, for example, Marlbor would cost 16.5 kuna, and the domestic ronhill 15.5 kuna, but the state will not only lose on fixed excise duties but will also reduce the amount on which a special 30% tax is charged, which is an additional ten drops per box of the most sold cigarettes. What a loss of the state budget will be clear on this at the moment neither Minister Shuker can answer but the state will be able to count on higher revenues from the early next year because excise duties on cigarettes will increase to 225 kuna per thousand cigarettes, which is 4.5 kuna per box. However, the Government's earlier announcement that the next year it will equalise excise duties on all cigarettes shows that it has not impressed the European Union since the Government points out in its statement of law that the same rate of excise duty is proposed to meet the requirements of the Member States of the European Union as soon as possible, and in this regard the harmonisation of the taxation of all types of cigarettes in Croatia and in accordance with these legal gains of the European Union, etc. But as I continue now, as something will be negative for us, so I guess it's just as negative there for those countries where Croatian cigarettes are exported. So that's the conclusion. The local cigarettes will certainly be collected, the imported ones will be cheaped. Tax burdens on lower price groups of Croatian cigarettes are rising and are reduced by imported cigarettes. So like I said, this Colombo York with 12 kuna goes to 15 kuna, Walter Wolf probably from 15 kuna to 18 kuna, Ronhill from 16 kuna to 19 kuna, Marlboro will remain 20 kuna. So what's all this about? This de facto means that one twenty-year-old monopoly is kind of slowly shutting down. Is that good, is that bad about being discussed. I said, I'm against every monopoly unless that monopoly is from my choir. Monopoly is certainly not good for anyone, individuals are disillusioned over time but I would literally swallow the domestic industry if it were possible to make the most of it by taking care of those who are monopolous because of the banking political ties over the past two decades, not to mention these factories, companies, etc. What's certainly important when we talk about this law is to see what we're going to do with that smoking ban. I would, for example, extend some time limits for cafes, clearly I would be maximum rigorous for those places where people in various restaurants are having lunch or for business spaces where such economic, business, administrative or not know how to call it life. In order for no one to experience this performance, I don't know a pre-election rhetoric, so I don't converse with the people of Adria who participate in the elections in the County of Istria, I will personally be restrained about this law, but I also repeat that this decision is expected, I will not say how logical it is and that it leads literally in the legal sense of that word to the near abolition of the monopoly. However, no matter what, but because of the presence in the sales network from the press to the various supermarkets, I claim that nothing dramatic will happen to Adris or Croatian cigarette. Today, the monopoly is no longer protected by such laws or is being threatened by the monopoly, but is now being preserved by a trade network. It is clear to you that not everyone can enter and that is really the point, so in due course nothing dramatic will happen in terms of the market position of Adria, even though no matter what, I would personally like them to benefit from this law as much as possible. And that's why I said, at least I'll be restrained. What's the point of what we were talking about yesterday at this pay phone is that some companies come into a position that they have to pay extra profits because the state in the right sense keeps the word a monopoly. This extra profit does not matter if it is some banks, whether it is some commercial houses or some other industries, should not be paid at a rate of 25% how much profits are paid than for sure and double if not triple. However, however, one more time I will say, this law will not significantly endanger domestic production, but it is certain that during time one competition will appear that needs to be counted on and, accordingly, understandably and everything to be done not to endanger first of all that small tobacco producer in the Republic of Croatia. That's how many more times I'm going to say at least I'm abstentioned about this bill that somehow tries to non-discriminatory foreign cigarette manufacturers.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30033	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30034	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. I would only correct an incorrect quote from fellow Caine who said the profit tax is 25%. My colleague Cain, the profit tax is 20%. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30035	Who knows. Club HDZ Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30036	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. The proposal for a law amending the Special Tax Act on tobacco products with the Final Proposal is marked P.Z. 283. What is the essence of the Law on Special Tax on Tobacco Products? Namely, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Special Tax on Tobacco Products, National Journal 152/2008. A European excise system for taxation of cigarettes is introduced by which the excise base is a thousand pieces of cigarettes and a retail price for cigarettes and a special tax is shown to be a two-component taxation that it makes. Under the 1st specific, a special tax is set in the amount of a thousand pieces of cigarettes. Under 2nd and pro-proportional special tax determined as a percentage of the retail price of cigarettes. In this way, we have partly aligned ourselves with the legal property of the European Union that regulates the taxation of cigarettes with excise duties, i.e. with specific taxes. The following is proposed, as Mr Secretary said as of 1 June 2009, to introduce the same specific rate of tax on all cigarettes amounting to 180 kuna for a thousand pieces with the retention of the pro-proportional special tax 30% of the retail and sales price of cigarettes. In the Republic of Croatia there are three groups of cigarettes in A, B, and C groups. In Group A cigarettes, they have a specific special tax of 175 kuna per thousand pieces, then a proportional special tax of 30%, from a retail price. Cigarettes B group, they have a specific tax, 197.50 kuna for a thousand pieces of cigarettes and a pro-proportional special tax 30% of the retail price. And C-group cigarettes, so they have a specific tax of 310 kuna for a thousand pieces of cigarettes, plus a pro-proportional special tax of 30% of the retail price. The specific tax on cigarettes referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall now be paid on cigarettes of Groups A, B and C from 1 January 2010. As a special tax of 225 kuna for a thousand pieces of cigarettes and as a pro-proportional special tax 30% of the retail price. The European Commission welcomed the preparedness of the Republic of Croatia to neutralise differences in tax treatment among the groups in which cigarettes are classified in Croatia but in terms of weather dynamics to achieve the equality of tax treatment for all cigarettes, full equalisation is required as soon as possible. As regards the means of implementation of this law, no additional funding from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia is required and, of course, the Croatian Democratic Community will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30037	Thank you. SDP counseling club. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30038	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This law is said to be in line with EU legislation, so it has a P.Z.E. code. And We bring him in by an emergency procedure. At the last session of the Parliament, we adopted a legislative harmonisation plan with the EU legislation, look at this plan, this law is not there. Not that he's not there for this quarter, he's gone at all, and it's quite clear why he's gone, because this law is no alignment, this law is in conformity. He's consistent when we brought him in 2008. At the end of 2008. Why isn't he in that plan? Well, of course there wasn't any, there was no need for him to get into that plan, when that plan was made, and he came in here as a paratrooper. He has a P.Z.E. label completely unnecessary. and it is actually a delusion of parliament when it has that mark. And the government deceives Parliament by claiming that this is a harmonisation, and it is not a harmonisation, and it is not a harmonisation because it is harmonised. What is the meaning of equating excise duties? For all those who raise the plate correcting the incorrect allegations of what I have said, I urge you to look at the document they voted for in this House, which is a plan to bring legislation in order not to correct the exact allegations, but possibly incorrect if there are such ones and there are none. What does three categories of cigarettes A, B and C mean? One group is cigarettes produced exclusively from domestic tobacco. The second group is cigarettes produced from a mixture of domestic and foreign tobacco and a third group are cigarettes produced exclusively from foreign tobacco. The excise duties have been different so far. Why? Because the state protected domestic tobacco producers and domestic tobacco processing, quite logically. The approximation of the European Union requires us to put an end to this discrimination, to stop protecting our own tobacco producers and our own tobacco processors and to enable everyone on Croatian soil to operate equally. It makes perfect sense when we enter the European Union. Our journey to the European Union is currently blocked. It is not known when we will conclude negotiations, and especially when we will enter the European Union. But we are in an interesting hurry, we are in a hurry to equate excise duties and thus damage tobacco producers in Croatia and the processing of tobacco in Croatia. Under the existing law that is now being amended, these excise duties should be equalised on 1 January 2010. And that's what we voted in this House at the end of last year. But now in one hurry, an emergency, not January 1st next year, but the 1st of June of this year. Six months ago. This is not about any new European Union directive that would impose this on us, as the last European Union directive was adopted on 12 February 2002. Therefore, the directive is well-known and the Government knew about the directive and the directive was included in the law that we voted on at the end of last year and all this is harmonised. But why now, suddenly, this urgent change. For what? What's causing that urgency? Apparently, the interest of foreign companies is Philip Morris British tobacco. Why the government protects the interest of foreigners, foreign companies and damages the interests of tobacco producers in Croatia and tobacco processors in Croatia, it is a mystery covered by a veil of secrets moving towards the unknown. Nobody knows that. It's clear who's gonna benefit from British Tabacco tobacco and Philip Morris. That's clear. And will someone from the Croatian government benefit from the quick push of a law that we do not need at this time by emergency procedure? The big money is about the tobacco industry, big money and big interests. And there is no logical explanation that we are entering the European Union on 1 June, this would be understandable. We are entering the European Union, and we must have the rules of the European Union by then. And we don't enter June 1st, and we make laws as if we're already in the European Union. What is the current situation in Croatia? Croatia is now among the countries with the most expensive cigarettes compared to the purchasing power of citizens. If these excise duties are voted and introduced, Croatia will definitely be the country with the most expensive cigarettes in Europe compared to the purchasing power of citizens. Already 60m euros are being taken from the Republic of Croatia to buy cigarettes in the surrounding countries. At least that much. 450 million kuna is also a damage in the budget due to this smuggling or malfeasance traffic. It will now increase further, as it will increase the difference in retail prices in Croatia and in countries around it. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, the price of cigarettes is 0.60 euros. There will be 3 euros in Croatia. It is 5 times, 5 times the same cigarette will be more expensive in Croatia than in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have laws on small-border traffic, we have the Slavonski border, a Bosnian ship, for example. It doesn't have to be smuggled, it can be passed legally from Slavonski to the Bosnian Ship for 8 hours a day. Simo-there, and after a pack of cigarettes, it's a hell of a profit. But damage to the Croatian budget, damage to VAT in Croatia not charged. When we add that to the smuggling, it means not this legal demarcation traffic, it's really smuggling when the bootleggers go, when it's being smuggled into big, then the loss is even bigger. This is an incentive for smuggling. This is the law to encourage smuggling. Again, we have to ask ourselves, "Britsh Tabacco" and "Philip Morris," if anyone in the government has any interest in increasing cigarette smuggling, when offering such an unreasonable proposal, when he's so hasty in front of the ore to even the excise on all cigarettes. Furthermore, equating these excise duties eliminates the need for domestic tobacco. Here's the Committee on Agriculture has already asked for this to be just the first reading and has the right to the Committee on Agriculture. So the Agriculture Committee thinks about our peasants if they don't already think about the government and tobacco producers. Look in Podravina, only in Podravina about 2,000 and 500 co-operatives grow tobacco, about 6 thousand hectares with a total production of 12 to 14 thousand tonnes of tobacco, which is 6 to 7% of total tobacco production in Europe. Two thousand and 500 cooperatives. The total value of this produced tobacco moves about 170 million kunas, which is only for comparison to those who follow agriculture. This is about 23 to 25% of the total value of cereals produced in Croatia, that is 50% of the total production of sugar beet in Croatia, that is 60% of the total production of wine in Croatia. Well, that's not petty. That's gonna go away. Those values will disappear, it will be destroyed by such a legislative proposal by the government if this parliamentary majority votes it. What's going to happen to those 2,000 and 500 cooperatives? The tobacco is grown on relatively bad soil, then it's working. It's impossible to substitute it with another culture on that ground, and especially not within such short notice. The villagers don't have time to adjust. Well, at the end of last year, when we passed this existing law, they thought they had a year, and now you tell them, no, just six months. What are these people gonna live on about? Will domestic tobacco production buy tobacco from it? Why would he, he's loaded with excise duties as well as this import. Why would he? The domestic cigarette and industry has so far been based on the use of Croatian tobacco more than 70% of domestic tobacco is installed in these cigarettes, and the price paid to these co-operatives is 20% higher than the world price. It's worth it to everyone. To grow tobacco for farmers because they sold it to the domestic industry 20% more than they could market on the world market. It paid off the domestic tobacco industry because it reprocessed 70% of the tobacco, because it managed to place it on the market because of the smaller excise duties. It paid off the state, too, because she picked up the VAT. The government boasts of the introduction of anti-recession measures. This is ladies and gentlemen a recession measure. This is a recession measure. Because it's going to increase smuggling, it's definitely nothing to discuss. When the price difference is 5 times between Slavonski and Bosanski Brod in a product, the smuggling is there. Even when he's gone, to narrow it down to a small-border traffic that's legal, the damage is enormous. This is a recession measure because it will reduce budget revenue in part of the VAT, as it will reduce legal consumption of cigarettes, sell cigarettes from the domestic tobacco industry. It's going to fall VAT, damage to the budget. There will be no revenue from tobacco production, which I repeat is 170 million kuna. It is a recession measure also because 2,000 500 cooperatives will remain unemployed and have no time to adapt to some new production. Workers in the Adris Group, part of them will be out of a job. Well, of course, the company's profits will be reduced, so of course what to do with all the companies when their profits are cut. So they're trying to make some savings. So how's he gonna make a savings? He'll fire some of the workers, what else he'll do. Their production will drop, which will increase smuggling, increase retail traffic, have no one to sell to, fire part of the workers, and that is how the government is fighting the recession in the country. That's the way, that's the steps the government is offering us. Listen, the SDP tells you this or the first reading, to accept the first reading according to the proposal of the board, the Assembly Committee on Agriculture founded or we will vote against this. But not only are we going to vote against this, but we're going to make sure that out of this late hour when a public debate is being held, we spread the truth about how the government favors foreign companies British Tobacco and Phillip Morris at the expense of domestic companies, so it destroys peasants in the middle, how it damages VAT, maybe just because someone in the government would benefit privately from this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30039	Thank you. A few corrections. First Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30040	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. ... Never enough in this House, but to correct an incorrect assumption. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A colleague, Stazic, said the government favours foreign companies. That's not true. He said this law was an inciting smuggling. That's not true. Namely, my colleague Stazić, in our definition, and I believe your SDP definition of Croatia as a member of the European Union, makes it clear that Croatia must implement certain measures and laws before it enters the European Union. Therefore, there are criteria for opening chapters and closing chapters. One of the main pillars of European behaviour is non-discrimination, non-discriminatory behaviour. And that's what this law is about. So, without any discrimination, it is up to us to decide whether we want to go to the European Union or not. If you do not want to go then clearly say we do not want to join the European Union, but do not accuse the government of favouring foreign companies. It simply makes a move that means non-discrimination on the Croatian market.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30041	Second correction, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30042	Thank you very much. counterpart Stazic said, quote: "This is a recession measure because it will increase smuggling due to price differences in the Republic of Croatia and the countries in the environment." This is not a recession measure, this is a measure to develop the market relations we need after almost 20 years in the area of cigarettes. About the differences in sales prices in the Republic of Croatia, and for example, as my colleague told Stazic Bosnia and Herzegovina, the biggest cause lies at the level of the profits of the company that manufactures cigarettes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30043	Third Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30044	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Stazic presented a series of inaccuracies in his nervous and theatrical presentation. I'll fix it. He said it was an anti-recession measure, that it was a law to encourage smuggling, to harm the VAT. He mentioned some late hours like it was midnight. It's not even 18 hours yet, all to make it more theatrical. I really need to correct his allegations. He said he wouldn't vote for this SDP bill. I don't know if it is, we know that these laws have to be voted for in order to adapt with the European Union and whether it is an indication of the SDP that it wants to stop EU accession, maybe join some of the forces that are currently working on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30045	Fourth Amendment, but a very tense correction. Fourth Amendment, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30046	Thank you very much. Here's one untensed. A colleague, Stazic, said, would quote that there would be damage and loss to the state budget, that the revenues of the state budget and several other similar findings would be reduced. The other way around. That'll fix the state budget. The World Bank has calculated a long time ago, if you increase the price of cigarettes, you will reduce the number of smokers so much that you will save more money for their treatment than you will reduce financial resources into the budget. So the World Bank calculated at world level is a loss to the treatment of those who smoke compared to all their contributions to the budget minus $200 billion a year. Therefore, this is an anti-recession measure, and I welcome it because it will save about 10,000 lives a year, 10,000 lives a year are shut down because of cigarettes, and that each fourth to fifth died in Croatia. This will reduce that number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30047	State Secretary Zdravko Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30048	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's the debate is pretty informative, a lot of numbers, a lot of data, a lot of conclusions, so let me just take a quick response. First of all, I should say that the Government cannot and will not accept the request of the Committee on Agriculture to go to another reading, but will continue to insist, i.e. propose that it continue to go into an emergency procedure, and here I am also referring to what we had just heard. So, in the opening statement, I mean in the debate at the end of last year it was clear, so I'm just going to repeat it briefly. So this harmonisation with legislation is therefore not at all related to our act of accession to the European Union, but has long been signed in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The European Commission has made it very clear to us that in this way we are in breach of the provision of Article 34(1) and that this is, in fact, a prerequisite for the whole further story, first of all, on the opening of the tax chapter, which you have also said very well, Chapter 16. It should also be said that at this point, we are still not fully fulfilling all the obligations and provisions of the European Union Directive on tobacco and tobacco processing. But I'll just remind you for a little while. Therefore, the directives require that the fixed tax rate in the tax burden be in the amount, i.e. between 5 and 55%, that the total excise duty in the retail price be at least 57%, and that the total excise duty per thousand pieces in euro be at least 64 euros. With these amendments and additions to the law we still do not meet these requirements and for them we have asked for transitional periods and we believe that we have strong and well-founded arguments to get those transitional periods, but let me not prejudge it here yet. I also need to react to some of the data we've heard. So, the price of cigarettes is neither government nor I believe any of the analysts, and even tobacco producers can't guarantee it. Therefore, the price of cigarettes is also subject to the business policy of individual producers and, of course, to this tax burden. So this figure, which the distinguished representative said would be five times more expensive in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I really cannot accept, because regardless of what the price difference is and there will certainly be no 5 times in any case. As far as another short piece of information is concerned. So, these amendments and the amendments to the law do not prejudge how much they will amount to neither fixed nor proportional excise duty at 1.1.2010. Therefore, it is very clear that these amendments and additions are proposed to amend paragraph 2 which we practically prejudge, i.e. we propose what tax burden would be with 1 June 2009 but we do not go beyond that. And regarding this price of cigarettes and the drop in revenue in the budget, the possible drop in budget is also very difficult and almost impossible to assess. We have been guided by this resolution in the sense that we have been trying to find the most optimal model that guarantees us revenue in the budget at the level originally planned so that no revenue reduction should occur.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30049	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30050	Thank you very much. Two claims are incorrect. The first claim that the government does not affect the price of cigarettes. The government has an impact on the price of cigarettes by increasing excise duties with this bill. The second claim is incorrect, that difference won't be five times. It will be. If 0.60 euros is now in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 0.67 in Serbia-Montenegro, and 3 euros in Croatia, then that is 0.60 to 3 is five times. This will not reduce smoking in Croatia, as cheap cigarettes from Bosnia and Herzegovina will continue to be bought small-border or smuggled. Therefore, it will not be achieved by the health savings of fellow Hebrang, he will not. Budget revenue will be reduced because the VAT contribution will be reduced and the legal sale of cigarettes will drop. It's going to be a waste of legal sales. Therefore, only the damage follows. Use none.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30051	Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30052	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The reason for this proposal for a law is that this is a compliance with the legislation of the European Union. The question arises why this would be a harmonisation when the law came into force two and a half months ago and it is harmonised, but has a transitional period. And now we can't get an answer to the question or that answer isn't so clear why a transitional period is being abolished. Therefore, instead of applying excise duty equation in 1.1.2010, it should be applied 7 months earlier, i.e. 1.6 this year. It is said that the European Commission is asking us to do so immediately, that this is also a kind of pressure, that this is also the reason for, or for a stalemate in negotiations. We know exactly why there is a stalemate in the negotiations and then the dilemma is whether it is really because of the pressure of the European Union, or because of the opening of Chapter 16 or whether it is the pressure of a multinational tobacco lobby within the European Union to get another small segment of the market, because everyone is fighting for new markets today. That we have a problem with the harmonisation of the tax system is, in fact, in continuity, we have poor grades. For example, previous reports by the Commission for 2005 say we have very little progress in tax legislation. Then in 2006 we have limited progress, and in 2007 we have very limited progress. So a slightly worse report than it was a year ago, and it is said that in addition to slow progress, key problems repeated year after year concern administrative capacity and the integration of information technology and that in August of last year, the European Union mission in Croatia said that negotiations on the tax chapter lag behind all other chapters. What is our particular grudge? It says that progress in indirect taxation, no progress in direct taxation, no progress in the field of direct taxation cannot be reported on progress in administrative cooperation and mutual assistance because there is only some progress in operational capacity and computerisation. So very bad news about Chapter 16 or politics, tax policy in Croatia. So the question is, is there really a role to play these seven months before the use of the same excise duty on a cigarette, or is it something else, and I'm not going to guess about it. So, if there's pressure on this, we don't depend on negotiations, because we have far greater grudges on other segments of the tax system than are specific taxes on tobacco products. However, what consequences will we have for tobacco producers? It has already been said here that in the area of Podravina and Slavonia it is actually stationed or it is some real where tobacco is produced in Croatia, that it is very good quality, that the state significantly encourages this production. And when we look at the growth of tobacco production in Croatia, then we're in '99. the years produced 8100 tonnes. But by increasing the support from the state budget, we came to the production of 12,000 tonnes in 2008. And the government's incentives range from five kunas to four classes of tobacco to eight kunas for the first class of tobacco. It is precisely because tobacco or state processors invest significantly in this production that is the most profitable production in agricultural production in Croatia. The only production that makes over 3,000 kunas per hectare of income. So it's a production that with 70% of total production ends in processing in Croatia, 30% in exports. Under the new Encouragement System Act, high incentives are planned for this year. Thus, basic payments per hectare of 2 250 kuna, and especially for tobacco, equalize these direct incentives, for example. with an incentive for a sunflower that we know we have too few olive trees in Croatia at a level of 4 750 kuna per hectare, and that is the highest individual incentive in the plant production that the state encourages in Croatia. It should be said that the contract of tobacco production is completed, that this year about 6 thousand hectares will be planted, it may not be a large amount, but it is a large number of families that produce tobacco, especially in the area of one county, that is about 2,500 co-operatives who are questionable where their production will end in autumn, which cannot be reorientated overnight to another production because it is a specific technology that requires specific machinery, a specific type of droughts that cannot be used to dry other cultures, for example. A healing plant or something. So the people who took the loans invested significantly in this production that would be questionable to them. They will, of course, be questioned if this law applies in 1.1.2010, and we have not given them a signal through the policy of state incentives in agriculture to say no, we will reduce this production, we do not want more tobacco production in Croatia or the processing of it, so we will detimise you, we will give you less incentives. No, I don't. We and for 2009 predict greater incentives from the state budget for this culture. What are we gonna tell these people in the fall? They will not be able to reach us before the Parliament or before the government, they will stop here on Radic's street as the milkers stopped the other day and ask who will buy their production? If they don't hand over the tobacco, if they don't sell it, they won't get this incentive from the state budget either. Who, then, will go from the government to the Parliament to tell these people, and listen, we, so under some pressure actually changed the law, which means 7 months before applying one law, introduce bigger excise duties, bring your production into question, they have invested certain funds in this production. There is no reason, therefore, that the Law that is already in conformity, which has only a transitional period for 7 months, is not to be found unscheduled by an emergency procedure during the night and accepted by an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30053	Thank you. Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30054	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It has not been three months since we discussed the same law in the Croatian Parliament, the same law, we had a cop, a seal, a confirmation that the law is in line with European practice, that the law is in conformity. We've had very clear messages that we're going to have excise coordination over the next two years, so that's what we discussed, no three months. The pleasure of all of us in the Parliament was why? Because the ministry's message was, it was agreed with tobacco producers, with tobacco processors, so I would say, it was very clear that the Croatian economy and the state administration agreed that this was necessary and would be done with such transitional periods. So 3 months ago we had the simple efforts of all in Croatia who will suffer the damage that they have to adapt and that this adjustment will go in a year or 2 years. And it wasn't slow. We all supported the law. What's going on now? So it was the SAA, and then it was the European Commission. So nothing's disputed, nothing's new. It's not a new moment. We now suddenly break up the arrangements of the state government and processors and tobacco producers, interrupt them, ask them no more and come before us to the Croatian Parliament to change our decision from 3 months ago. To change it to the damage of Croatian businessmen to the harm of Croatian peasants. This is a proposal from the Croatian government. Why is it pressured by the European Commission? Or vice versa. For the sake of pressure from European monopolys in tobacco on their governments, which they then press through the European Commission. And what do we have to conclude? The Croatian government no longer protects the Croatian economy and Croatian peasants but gives in to pressures and changes its agreement with the government, I apologize with the economy from 3 months ago. Change. That's what we have to worry about. We have to worry about that. Now, we're asking ourselves a question. It's all right, the interest of entering Europe and, of course, pressure is pressure. But then let's analyze number 1, which is going on in chapter 16, so we'll see that the European Commission's assessment of work on the chapter is tragic. That it was the most unsuccessful negotiating chapter. The most unsuccessful, behind everyone else. These are the assessments you can read, not the individuals, but the institution of public finances that publishes the results of the negotiations with the Commission. It's the worst chapter ever. There's been no significant progress. Not on direct taxes, not on indirect taxes, not on administrative cooperation. These are the grades, so we have huge problems in that chapter. Are we now going to solve problems if we violate the agreement with the Croatian and Croatian farmers, so let's give in to the pressures here. Is that how we're going to improve our negotiations? We won't. We won't. So we still have a lot of problems in the negotiations in the area. So let's give in to the last of the pressures. Not at first, but when we get everything sorted out, let's give in to the pressures. That's why we say we're going to first reading. So there's a message that maybe we won't last a whole year because if we fix our relationship at the negotiations in nine months, maybe three months before the end of the year we'll go because it's the only pressure left. But let's not start with the burden of the peasants, the burden of the economy when we haven't done the whole chapter properly. And there's something else. Also, we are under pressure by Slovenia, blocking all other negotiations. She blocked all the other negotiations. So we're probably not going to make any progress on other chapters, and we're probably not going to finish negotiations this year and we're far away, but I see these senior officials who say we're far away. And when we evaluate it, it's okay for our government to protect both the economy and the peasants without giving in to the pressures of a multinational. Well, it's not the commission that cares about Croatia's budget. No, they care about the multinational, they want to sell in Croatia. Let's not do that. So it's the only obstacle, if it wasn't for the impediment to the bad negotiations in Chapter 16 and if they weren't bad relations with Slovenia, none of us would talk about it. Let's not give in, let's go to another reading. Let's not let where the interests of multinationals and the interests of other countries are we give in but elsewhere we can't achieve anything. And that's our point, let's not change it. Let's not, we'll be in our business, our peasants, and we'll have our own problems. And I think the Ministry of Finance is aware of the biggest problem, it's a certain drop in revenue in the budget, safe. There are so many differences between the price of cigarettes in Croatia and our environment. It must be clear to everyone that the Ministry of Finance has fought bloodyly over the last three years to reduce the black market, fought bloodyly. What you need to know is when those prices are high no matter what punishment. So our criminal legislation won't be detimulative at all. It's so different that there's no way to stop the gray market or the black market, whatever you're going to call it. At that moment, it blooms and we'll have a simple terrible problem with the import of cigarettes or I'd say cigarette smuggling. Well, I guess you all understand that when there's so much difference there's no criminal policy that's going to stop it. And that has to worry us, it really has to worry us. Also, a battle for less smokers. Well, people, let's be aware the crisis is there, paying the problem, the pension problem. Well, there's no way we're gonna be the problem of people who are depressed getting rid of them from smoking with expensive cigarettes. No, we're gonna make them buy cigarettes. I'm sure they'll be looking for her, like crazy will be looking for her. And what are we going to do? We'll move the profits to those who do illegal business. ... These are all dangers that we must count on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And to keep from arguing, we're just trying to tell people not to give in to pressure because it's not the only condition. We need to correct our relationship with Chapter 16 and we need to solve Slovenia's problem in order to give in to this pressure in some way. Caine's been arguing today. We've had enough monopoly. Well, my people who are British Tobacco and what are the rest of Phillip Morris' European companies. Well, they're monopolies. Which is why we're trying to say we're not going to TDR, so we need European monopolies. I would disagree, and so let us simply try to think that the delay through the first reading gives us the opportunity to keep this subject open, to see what happens to Slovenia and whether we can fix our relationship with Chapter 16 in other parts and at that moment we can discuss this last pressure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30055	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30056	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. I will correct only one incorrect quote from Mr Linic where he states that their concern is strictly for the primary agricultural producers. In fact, you are instructed by the local monopoly of Rovinj Tobacco Factory and represent their interests. If you had taken care of primary production, you would have considered by now the position of these peasants who are in Virovitica-Podravska County where I come from and taken care of the incentives and the coordination of incentives with the countries in the environment. If you'd taken care of them, you'd know that there exists except... capacity and others who prepare and produce cigarettes in Croatia so as not to be just one monopoliest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So please, don't politicize and don't just stand in the interest of one, because if you were standing in the interest of peasants long ago, they'd be different from what you're presenting.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30057	Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30058	Thank you very much. At first, I'm just going to say that if someone was to produce cigarettes, they'd have to be tobacco in order to make it a little clearer for some MPs. So, certain peasants who grow tobacco have to grow it and care for domestic producers also care about the peasants who produce this tobacco, so you can't separate one thing from another because without tobacco, there's no cigarettes, there's no domestic cigarette manufacturer. What I wanted to talk to you about is that yesterday we touched the debate a little bit, defending the country's sovereignty in this crisis year must definitely be preserving jobs and protecting the standards of Croatian citizens. If the Croatian Government only three months after adopting one law changes it under pressure I would say the recommendations of the European Commission but it is clear that the European Commission protects its producers, protects its companies and protects the company's interests to sell on the Croatian market. Then it is questionable how the Croatian government only three months after we passed the law in this House protects Croatian interests. I'd say no. And for what? For six months of a different tax regime. I don't think there's a speech here that Croatia will improve its position towards the road to Europe because six months earlier it will pass a more favourable law for foreign cigarette manufacturers. The only ones who will have any interest in this law are foreign cigarette manufacturers because they won't cut the price of their cigarettes. It is illusory to expect that foreign producers will lower prices of their brands than prices will remain the same but their obligation to pay according to the state budget will be lower. And that will be the difference that foreign producers will take in these six months outside Croatia. And it will be a price that will make it a minor inflow into the state budget this year at least to that extent. On the other hand, when we look at employment, preserving jobs in January this year is a decline in industrial production of 14.1%). Among certain branches is the largest drop in tobacco production, as much as 56% and this is one of the measures that will go towards making the situation worse in this industry by the end of the year. On the other hand, the number of employees in one year decreased by as much as 20.5% When we talk about how much taxes in Europe are when Croatia enters the European Union, these taxes will be much higher. And on the other hand, we go to foreign producers. The European Commission, or the European Parliament, will accept the most likely proposal that since 2012, we believe that Croatia will then be in the European Union, paying a specific 64-euro tax per thousand pieces of cigarettes. It's 480 kuna, and it's 2014. 75 euros per thousand cigarettes, that's $562. So we see that this tax is going to be much bigger than it is now and much bigger than it's ever been for foreign producers. On that side, there's a logical question. On the one hand, we will have cigarette smuggling, and on the other hand because of prices that are much higher in Croatia than in the surrounding countries, and on the other hand we will have a problem with the fact that the price of cigarettes for Croatian citizens will grow and they will be much more expensive for cigarettes and buy them. So my question if we've already gone to this part of the equation, which is why it wasn't immediately transferred to 225 kuna in 6 months, or maybe it was priced as it was for the most expensive category of 310 kuna. there would not be safe for the benefit of foreign producers, because then their commitment to the state budget would be identical. This is how we gave a box of cigarettes to foreign producers this year from 6 months each box of 2.6 kuna, and from 1. 1. 2010. 1.7 kuna directly to foreign producers, because I say those prices won't drop. It would be much more correct if we had already adhered to the criteria recommended by the European Commission, and as regards the fact that in 2012, I said it would be a minimum special tax of 480 kuna, it would be much more correct if we had already gone to 310 kuna for all categories of cigarettes and thus perhaps in this crisis year and helped the state budget, because then we would probably have a higher income in the state budget. But no, we decided to reduce and go directly to foreign producers and reduce this obligation from 310 to 180 kuna and thus help foreign producers directly. I see absolutely no interest in neither the state budget nor domestic production nor the citizens of Croatia. And because of that, it may be part of it, and I would say the bad position of this High House that brings the laws and perceptions of this House to the public who makes the laws and changes them after 3 months under the obvious influence I would not even say to the European Commission, but to foreign powerful European companies. Because of the 6 months we have not really changed this law, because it is very likely that these 6 months will not save us from joining the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30059	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30060	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Secretary of State. Let me say that this Parliament must understand that after adoption, and it is likely to be tomorrow after today we are completing the debate of this Law on Special Tax on Tobacco Production, that tobacco production in Croatia will certainly be reduced, and what is even worse is that the future of this production is very uncertain. Predicting the non-equalisation of these excise duties for imported and domestic cigarettes, of course it all caused one dissatisfaction and concern of producers especially in Podravina and Slavonia. And this part that Mr. Djakic said only that one piece of information, '99. In 2008, 8 thousand tonnes were produced. Twelve thousand tons of tobacco. It means that in these 10 years, any government or state has cared about production, about the growth of production and I think it would be very bad if one move like this, and all producers talk about it, think about it, etc. We're making this production that we've been talking about today, and it's really respectable, also profitable, so that it goes away in the next period, because these 12,000 tons is worth 200 million kuna. For comparison, I'll just say, there was a speech here and my colleague Stazic was a percentage, but I can tell you that this year, or last fall, nearly 200 thousand hectares of wheat that will give about 1 million tons of that wheat and that will be worth 1 billion kuna. So when we look at these 6 to 7 thousand hectares, we create a value of 200 million kuna, and 1 billion kunas per 200 thousand hectares, then I think what we are in Slavonia, which we say Slavonia is always a producer of tones and wagons, and small profits. Now that we have one profit of quality, that is, when we have on one smaller surface a quality profit, I don't think we should just stop it from disappearing and be like that. Which is why everyone's warning these tobacco farmers and the people who are doing production on this part that this will destroy this production for a number of reasons. It's one and a specific production. Therefore, there are machines that process this differently there are droughts, such as having investments much larger than in some perhaps other production. Hence, it is very difficult to make any other adjustments to that production. That is why we need to know in particular that this tobacco is being planted, that the time is now coming for planting, that the contracts have already been made, etc. But it will be the worst if the production cannot be placed, or not bought by those who now negotiate. It's the second question of the market. I think there's a market for this production and there was almost 40% of that production. When you look at those 12,000 in 2007, there are 6 thousand 261 tons of tobacco. Last year, it's already dropped to 5 grand 871 in 2008. So it's going. But what's he falling for? We always say why. Well, it's falling because of the imports. Because in 2007, we imported 3 thousand 860 tons of tobacco, and last year 5 thousand 445 tons. Malten, we've now leveled imports and exports. Then who do we manufacture for? Who are we importing or exporting for? In these relations of imports and exports, I think that just a lot of things are lying down and that's what this production is going to be about. Next thing you know about support. Supports will continue to be, however, in 2009 it is 6.45 per kilogram, 2010. 6,13, and now we have five kunas for the fourth class to 8 kuna for this first class. Therefore, all this production is very important, especially for those parts of Slavonia and Podravina, which otherwise have difficulties in creating from their income and work and everything else. I think it would be very bad if these, there were speeches there I don't know 2 and a half thousand cooperatives or how many of them there are, etc., if this is abolished or if this is adopted now equal to those prices, very much the interest in buying our tobacco is going to be even worse. We're talking today about the fact that I don't know 15 family economies a day. I think with this condition, the collapse of these economies will certainly increase daily, and it is not our goal, because it is the form of one called job loss and everything else that goes along with it. And I think in the end that what everyone sees from this is that you're no longer in state tax protection. That our production through this normal will not be so competitive, it will not be in this privileged status in which it is and the question arises what kind of price will this tobacco be? Whether this production is going to decrease, which I said at first will certainly decrease, and this particular import and all that goes, so that's the opening of our market normally, these multinational companies and everything else. I think we should still think about not turning out that we Croatia are only good when we have a market, and that our production has no future. In this situation we should certainly think about and think about, the more we discussed it in the 12th month, in this very transitional part of production in the part, and in what way this production, if it is reduced, that we do not destroy these people, or that we do not get social problems that are also in these areas, and even in this whole part of Croatia there are many. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30061	Thank you. 18 and 26 hours have elapsed to report a ten-minute hearing. Replica, Mr. Representative Goran Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30062	Thank you very much. My dear colleague Bodakosh, you are I would say you were gentle when you said you believed that you would reduce production. I would say that this accelerated adoption of the law will make tobacco producers feel both cheated and financially abolished, because as many before me have said 95% tobacco and more is produced in Slavonia and Podravina. So, precisely in those parts where each production is very, very important, because there are not produced some of the things that are produced in these more developed parts of Croatia. This tobacco cultivation was indeed the basis of existence for some 2 and a half thousand producers, so when they translate it into a family part, it was about 6 thousand people who lived exclusively from tobacco cultivation. You can't ignore that, and you can't ignore it. Already, the announcement of new legal measures has led the tobacco manufacturer to doubt whether to deal with tobacco or to try to reorient something. And this particular period that was supposed to be by the end of the year may have even been able to give room for such a kind of reorientation, however, precisely by moving this term in six months, so in the middle of some kind of agritechnical period, it raises questions about what to do with the production that was started. You yourself said it wasn't sowing directly into the ground, it was the production of transplants by a very sophisticated and advanced technology that was very expensive. It's a contract for production. So it's all against the fact that a law like this needs to be speeded up in these six months that maybe someone can be satisfied with, as Mrs. Secretary of State or assistant in the ministry says today, some kind of pressure. So, because of the pressure, we will sacrifice conditionally this is how one large number of producers and one technology of agricultural production that we have developed extremely well. Of course, manufacturers must feel both cheated and abolished in a financial sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30063	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30064	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Well, Mr. Heffer, I think today this debate that this assembly is just missing another participant of all that, which is someone from the Ministry of Agriculture. I ask myself whether the Minister of Agriculture knows about it at all and whether anyone and the Ministry of Finance discussed with him about what it means for this production. What it means for these people who will certainly reduce tobacco production, whose future is uncertain, and who will certainly sooner or later appear as one of the damaged parties, or a revolution that can cause certain problems in the whole society and everything else. Which is why I often get to talk about this, and I'm talking today because I'm doing more agriculture normally, and that's my profession, and that's part of it, not this financial one. So can't the financial and agricultural part be processed and connected before it comes to this kind of, not to say, the hasty and laws that certainly bring confusion. And I mean today when the recession is so present, when job losses are so present that it's certain that the need to reconcile attitudes is not to cause some additional problems much greater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30065	Thank you. Mr. Representative Josip Djakić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30066	Thank you very much, Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate. So here's this Special Tax Act on tobacco products, it's certainly used today in this debate for politicizing. On the one hand, and the real effects that will be in the tax sense and filling the state budget, on the other hand care about farmers in Podravina and Slavonia, i.e. The Virovitica-Podrava County that covers that whole part is certainly not your subject, because you have never even been in it almost except when you need to say a few words for the political stands. The production of tobacco is certainly one of the most significant primary productions in our county except for Požeško-Slavonska small part and Osijek-Baranja with the least part, all other production is based on Virovitica-Podravska County and makes up a total of 12 million kilograms of tobacco produced mostly in the light of Virginia, which is second in quality in Europe, which certainly has its pass on the world market, which has its price on the world market and which in the good part is the export product. Not only is it used for the purpose of domestic tobacco production of cigarettes. It also has its export mark and certainly contributes to the further development of our county. At tobacco production, I once planted tobacco with my parents and helped the economy, like everyone else who had stepped on a tobacco shop in the Pannonian swimming pool, to achieve remarkable results. Today we can really say that 4200 ha that are agreed on by Croatian tobacco, which is a TDR company and a certain 2000 ha contracted by Agro tobacco from Slatina certainly make... the production of tobacco in the Pannonian swimming pool. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 170 million kunas that turn through the production of such a species is certainly a nice bite for our small county. From the state budget through the production incentive system comes to the county of about 60 million kuna. The production deals with about 1100 agricultural holdings, which by multiplying by three comes up with one job that is over 3000. Also, 250 permanent employees and hundreds of seasons that are in the tobacco production and processing system, so production is on family economies, processing is in companies, in two companies based on County virit-podravska and cigarette production is in Rovinj. So what's most profitable is being moved to Rovinj. We must also say not by protecting those who have announced that they will reduce production that is a fact, but I believe that since import tobacco from countries is more expensive to them in the environment and it would accumulate production, reduce profits and it will not happen, it will continue to base its cigarette production on domestic tobacco. And unless there's an alternative. In fact, we must be aware that a good part of the production capacity has been shut down, such as “Duhan Product” in Pitomaca, which had the largest production. In addition, we cannot stress that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement signed during the year 2000, I think for sure in the first year of the article 34, which speaks about the tax system, is about discrimination against taxation. And that is the most important factor today, for which negotiators with the European Union are caught. She's not any kind of pressure from multinationals because they've solved theirs. They solved their problem by abolishing the Malbor production license at the “Rovinj” tobacco factory. As far as I know when he lost his TDR license on Malboro, he lost more and what's called the possibility of working with multinationals like Phillip Morris or British American Tabac. It is true that tobacco production must survive because of those who live on it and my duty and obligations as representatives of those areas of which... It was most of all that I tried to solve these problems so that they would continue to function, so as not to reduce production. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, in contact with all relevant factors that are, which is also TDR and "Duhan Slatina" and all those who buy from primary production and who continue to generate profit is certainly the fact that the import tobacco is still more expensive and will not disrupt our production in Croatia. Given that we do further steps and opportunities to coordinate incentives such as those in the surrounding countries will certainly be produced and increased, not only to remain on these 12 million kilograms that are now. I want to say that the incentive is still smaller than in the surrounding countries, and that's what still domestic production protects. It is incorrect that 20% more payments to producers by TDR are for domestic tobacco than it is outside. It's absolutely someone's delusion. Whoever informed you misinformed you. We can say that our sandy soil certainly requires only certain production, which is tobacco or chamomile as healing plants. And the specificity of production and soil in our county areas certainly requires special standards. We will continue to worry that this production will grow by the interest of how many there are. In view of the irrigation programs that move, surely other cultures will begin to flourish in our areas, such as permanent plantations, such as the vines and the rest. But we will never neglect tobacco production, for it is the biggest profit in our county. It has grown economies, it has grown OPGs, it has bought machines, built economic buildings and houses. And therefore, we want this debate today on tax, the special tax on tobacco products certainly not to be a political dispute. But we see that the tobacco production of the Pannonian swimming pool has begun to take care of those who have never met with it, those who know nothing about it. And since it is pre-election time we can only conclude that instructed by those who have money are certainly easy to discuss in the Croatian Parliament about what is not their work, and not live with those who produce tobacco. I here also have today's demonstration of tobacco cooperatives who are associated with the Association of Croatian Tobacco Producers “Krutan List” as well as all those who have made an effort to give their pain in this debate, who are not afraid so much of this new tax, which amounts to 180 kn per 1,000 pieces of cigarettes but are struggling and trying to keep state incentives at this level or to be equal with countries in the environment or to be in the middle of countries in the environment, that further Croatian production is represented by the manufacturer or it comes up with some alternative solution. But I am talking about that Croatian tobacco can also be an export product and make us competitive with countries in the environment given the quality that comes from our fields. Therefore, I hope that and I believe that further production will remain at this level or increase, whether by the purchaser of the TDR and the cigarette manufacturer or by some new one that will surely find its profit in the production of cigarettes. I can therefore stress that it will not significantly damage the budget of the Republic of Croatia this equalisation, that it will continue to pave the way for us to European integration and that ultimately this production will remain in these areas because the specificity of the soil, the machinery, all that is there and the processing capacities that are on the premises of our counties guarantee that production can continue with a good profit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30067	Thank you. Two corrections, three replicas. First, Mr. Agent Goran Heffer, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30068	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Djakic has said several incorrect allegations in his desire to offend the SDP debate. The first thing he said was that we stood up for the peasants of Slavonia and Podravina, and we weren't there. I was in Slavonia two days ago, and the tobacco is grown not only in Podravina, but also in Slavonia a few hundred meters from my house has a field of tobacco. Another thing he said to talk about is those who don't know anything. Here, as an employee professor at the Faculty of Agriculture I did a number of research, though not in the Virovitica area, in the area of Pitomaca in the production of hydroponic tobacco transplants, in the planting of tobacco, we tested a number of plantings, etc., so let's say two, and I believe that my colleagues will quote several more of these incorrect allegations. So I don't see that the problem is that, in his opinion, who's talking about it, but what he's saying, and the goal is to point to all the problems that this unnecessary acceleration brings. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30069	And Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30070	Dear Vice President, there's only one thing I'd like to correct with my colleague Djakic. I mean, he said the ones who never know what that production is. Well, I don't think I'd ever say that he doesn't know what he's saying, but I just want to say that for 15 years I've been vice president of Slavonia and Baranja's Chamber of Commerce, that I've dealt with and followed agriculture and visited many, not only in Podravina, but all of Slavonia, where such, planting tobacco is done, therefore I know something about this problem, and plus as a doctor of science, I've had opportunities and participated in some projects that are related to tobacco production and tobacco processing. Well, I don't think it's a good idea to say that someone doesn't know anything when they're talking about such things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30071	Replica, Madam Representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30072	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I understand the discomfort of fellow Djakic, who will have to return to Virovitica after the vote of this law. You have no right to tell us to politicize, to show some concern for peasants in the viritarian county. We have the right as advocates to talk about every part of our country and every segment of our society. So I can ask you what kind of concern it was for tobacco producers when you refused to rent land for tobacco farmers in the City Council of Virovitica in 2007 so I had to react to the Minister of the City of Virovitica, so that's the concern. But let me get back to the subject. We are merely pointing to the illogical nature of why the transitional deadline for the equalisation of excise duties is reduced, under the exception of the pressure of the European Union and the need to open Chapter 16 – Tax policy when we actually have the biggest objections to this chapter through the problems of direct and indirect taxation, through administrative cooperation and through the operational capacity of the tax administration. So these are the most important remarks that the European Commission is giving us, not just this part of which concerns discrimination on cigarette taxation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30073	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30074	Thank you very much. Well, I'll just say that first of all I have a right and a moral obligation to represent interests because they speak to me by letters and meetings and Minister Cobankovic twice had a meeting with tobacco producers, twice went out to meet them, raised an incentive to swear every time and were happy and satisfied. And today they appreciate it and respect it and I want to say that this one property that you're talking about certainly had no legal conditions to get land and your intervention didn't work. You have the right to speak, but you better take care of your end, your constituency, those who gave you the vote and trust. I do it on behalf of my own, I don't see my colleague who doesn't have to represent the interests of Virovitica-Podravna County or Slavonia. Those who don't know, should probably know that Virovitica-Podravska County is made up of subravna and Slavonian parts so when some talk about what it is Podravina, and what Slavonia, actually... Along the Drava River should be whole sub-level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are these sandy soils and so to explain a little bit to them, regardless of the doctorate, the master's degree and everything else I want to say that you're really politicizing, that you really took this topic as an attack on the government, wanting to hand it to Rovinj probably because of the need for a campaign.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30075	Madam representative Nadica Jelash, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30076	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. If I understand correctly from the debate of Djakic, he is actually against the TDR monopoly, but at the same time advocates greater tobacco production because this also brings income to the local population, and also employs local population and county, that's where he comes from. I'm actually wondering who's gonna buy that manufactured tobacco if we don't have that TDR? According to him, foreign monopolies. So, the better the foreign monopolies, the better the domestics. And by it it is better to actually export tobacco as raw materials than cigarettes as a product of a higher level of processing. That's where I see the complete absence of economic logic and economic thinking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30077	Replication response, Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30078	Well, here's the answer one more time. Yes, it is true, I advocate a further continuation of this type of production in this quantity even in the increased as I know it, and I am 100% sure that Croatian tobacco has quality... And on the world market and buying. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's one thing. Secondly, I'm going to tell you loud and clear in front of this Croatian home. Monopolies such as TDR who ate the Zagreb tobacco factory under suspicious circumstances when we go into detail. I want to say that they created a bunch of hotels on the Adriatic from extra profits and this kind of production that you represent and extra get only one company certainly wasn't built on legal and healthy legs. Yeah, when there's no one else, it's when they have the monopoly, where when they have the monopoly, is when they've created a bunch of hotels and maybe their primary production doesn't matter anymore, but we'll, I know that you represent the interests of your colleague sitting next to you, I guess she faxed you what you need to say. But unfortunately, it'll take me two weeks because I can't see. As for tobacco production, for sure your interested parties who help you in the debate could certainly give a lecture from the beginning to the end on how it is done and how it is grown from transplants to final drying, classing and selling. I believe that you have now found it appropriate to engage in the debate to ensure that you have the opportunity to have revenue for the campaign. Well, we'll probably be looking into the audits on who helped you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30079	And Mr. Representative Gordan Maras Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30080	Thank you very much. I'm sorry to interrupt Mr. Djakic in the first place, but I'm going to have to rephrase it to him. First, Mr Djakic, I would ask you not to tell us who and what we represent because we have been elected by Croatian citizens and this is a topic that touches the Croatian budget and a large number of Croatian citizens who are not only in Virovitica but in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. The second thing, you said we were politicizing and then you tried to explain how it is in your presentation that it helps Croatian producers who raise their taxes to 5 kuna and get rid of foreign producers who lower their taxes by 130 kuna. Now, you answer me if it really makes sense to you, means that someone is being helped by raising their taxes and the other is getting paid by reducing their taxes, or Mr. Djakic's politicizing on your part. And one more thing I'd like to say to you, it's very likely that your debate could be repainted three months before this moment when we first discussed this law and would probably also argue that an amendment to the government should begin to apply this law of 1.5. So it doesn't matter to you whether Croatian citizens have any use for this but it is important for you to tell your story that has nothing to do with real data. Tell me if it's someone else's 5 kuna or not. Croatian producers and whether 130 kuna tax cuts are aid to foreign producers.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30081	Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30082	Thank you very much. Well, I'll answer you as a fellow representative, but just like the Director of the SDP who's taking care of the SDP budget, I'm sure it'll do you good. As much as your income is higher in the campaign or lower, it is likely that it is encouraging you to discuss what your colleagues and predecessors have signed and who have clearly and unequivocally stated in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in Article 34 clearly and unequivocally what tax discrimination is. It should be on your soul, actually. It should be at your party. What you did when you discussed and when you signed certain acts on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in Article 34. Take it out, take a look, and you'll get it all figured out. You will no longer talk about whether 5% more or less, whether it is discrimination against taxation or not, whether it is in the interest of Croatian citizens and budgets or in the interest of Croatian producers. I believe that the donation you will receive will certainly be much greater than 5%.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30083	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30084	Mr. Vice President, I am asking you to interrupt your colleague Djakic during these presentations in the future because the replica cannot be false. Mr. Djakic said I signed something. I didn't sign any papers. I'm in my first term. ... No, you said I signed it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And the other one you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30085	Please, peace. It can be in the replica because you know the replica is very wide.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30086	But then we can really go wide and talk whoever he wants. Not about the subject, not the truth. But then it really doesn't make sense to the Rules of Procedure or the subject or anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30087	I agree with you, we just need to all stick to the same measure. I'm a little reminded of half an hour before the debate when some colleagues discussed this subject so they extended it to quite a bit. ... Yes, and it's not that you can discuss it or not to discuss it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] They're rhetorical figures. ... No, Secretary. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] When you warn me there's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then make sure this isn't involved, and I've told you a hundred times. This isn't a breach of the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30088	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, I'm referring to Article 219. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and I would like to say exactly what you have said, that it is under the correction module i.e. Injuries of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Hurt the Rules of Procedure and, wanting to correct the incorrect allegations, he used the Rules of Procedure and deserved a reminder by all the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30089	If reminders were shared in such a way, they would be full of baskets and baskets of warning. A big harvest would be full of baskets. ... We can't just go home. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You know what the consequences of disbanding fellow Hebrang? ... That's what you said, I didn't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Representative Goran Maric is last.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30090	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In this environment, I am not particularly inspired or motivated by this time, so I'm just going to say a few principles. And in principle, I would say that it's not very common for us to discuss the same law that we discussed after two months. However, it is obvious that the law was not in line with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. In principle, I would say that production is the starting point of the economy, that without production there is neither exchange nor trade nor consumption. And as an economist, I personally love production, and I know something about tobacco because 35 to 40 years ago I grew tobacco. So I support production, but what I don't generally support as an economist, which is that private monopoly, no matter where it comes from, outside or abroad, is evil for the economy. The private monopoly is actually a noose around the door to the market economy and any measure that contributes to the development of the market, and to the development of competition, enhanced competition, and I am convinced that it then leads, because science has also proven to lower prices, I always support such measures. This measure, in fact, raises the question whether it was common otherwise it was acceptable that excise duties were not evened out. I personally don't think it's common. I'm letting someone else think that, and it's time to even it out. Of course there are lobbys in the economy, and there are pressures. Personally, I have no contact with anyone, no lobby, no pressures, so I welcome this action, I welcome this amendment, and it really is 5 kunas in equating only to a popular group of cigarettes to a thousand cigarettes higher, but it really doesn't have to mean that there will be an increase in prices. Having little insight that I am not now entering into the details, in the profit achieved by tobacco industry in Croatia, we see that there is quite a space to lower prices, because this profit is not even at the level of banks, but at the level of telecommunications services in Croatia. I therefore support this proposal for a law amending the Law on Special Tax on Tobacco Products. Thank you very much, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30091	Thank you. Final Review State Secretary Zdravko Marić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30092	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives and MPs. So, after this debate just like my last-minute representative, Mr. Maric, said, a man can't be very inspired, but allow me, however, a few words. I think you've guessed in the vast majority of arguments and the debates of the core, the core of the problem, and I can also say that we've dealt with this core in the Ministry of Finance, or the Government. So, on the one hand the budget, on the other hand, tobacco producers in Croatia. So in no way have we listened, nor have we listened to any advice, suggestions, recommendations or similar from any multinational foreign and domestic producers, groups or the like. We were guided exclusively by our own domestic interests, interests of the Republic of Croatia, but you can see for yourself. Here we have heard from some respected MPs, so we can say that we cannot create a unique opinion of what the tax, in what sense, the level of tax burden on tobacco any would be optimal. We see from the debate itself that it is not easy to find such a formula, but we still think that this formula and this way we have proposed to the Croatian Parliament should not significantly affect price increases. I'll just remind you of this law you're also saying that we discussed it and you finally voted 3 months ago in relation to it and if we only look at domestic producers, so domestic tobacco industry and domestic cigarettes, practically with these changes and additions we have relatively and weaker and lighter tax treatment. So I'm just going to say with the law that was passed in December for Group A, so the cheapest cigarettes, slightly higher treatment, with 3 kuna 50 if we're going to turn it into boxes, so from 3 kuna 50 lip to 3 kuna 60, and for Group B, among other things, among other things, the most sold cigarette that I don't now advertise tax treatment is reduced from 3 kuna 95 per box to 3 kuna 60 according to this proposal. So we really think, regardless of this, we heard in the debate, but through the media too much has been elaborated on how much the price and how it will be, that manufacturers will simply have no other choice but to increase prices drastically. We don't think there's any reason for that. I said Mr. Honorable Representative Stazic said the state may partly affect the price, because it prescribes tax burden, but the base price, that price that comes out of the manufacturer's factory is in the business policy of that producer, and in no case is the government or any of us here who is. So we can't have a full impact on that price, but on the other hand, with certain assumptions about the design of these scenarios, we're doing this, and I think this proposal is what it really is, and it shouldn't be. And in that case, of course, you read, on the one hand, the budget, on the other hand, tobacco producers, and I really agree and I support that you are also concerned about how the budget will be filled. But we do, the Honorable Agent Dr. Hebrang said World Bank research. That's the research we've been looking at. So unrelated only to expenditures and, if I may say so, the negative consequences of smoking. The same report analyzed the calculation of elasticity, hence the consumption of tobacco and tobacco processing compared to the price and led the same way. On the third hand, I have to do it again. So there is a difference in the price of cigarettes, tobacco and tobacco products between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina today. We don't say that these changes and additions will remove her, but I also have to repeat once again that she will certainly not be fivefold. That's for sure. Because I'm still repeating one more thing, so if you compare it, I don't now burden you in these late hours, but we have data on the tax treatment in Bosnia and Herzegovina. He's slightly lower, but not drastically lower. And finally, just to look again at the reasons and background of the amendments and the addition of this law. I will say once again, so the Stabilisation and Association Agreement we have made a commitment, the European Commission and the European Union resent us, or it says that we do not comply with certain provisions. This whole thing that we're talking about today, right now, is a prerequisite for opening a chapter of tax. And here I also accept these criticisms and suggestions of respected MPs and MPs about how further progress is needed in the tax chapter, and I think this esteemed House will recognize this very quickly because soon you will also have a new Excise Taxation Act, and then a certain and further harmonisation of both direct and indirect taxes. Here's another thank you, and I'm just going to say once again that from all this order, I have to repeat that the government cannot accept the request to go to another reading, but remains on its proposal to follow the urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30093	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9:30 with a debate on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-19-0.u30094	19th, Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Special Tax on Tobacco Products. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 283. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development proposed the next conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Special Tax on tobacco products is hereby adopted. Any objections, suggestions and opinions will be sent to the applicant... The bill therefore has been renamed to the first reading and now goes to the second reading. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A representative of the government has not accepted a proposal from the Assembly Committee. So he goes to another reading. Who's in favour of the committee's proposal for a conclusion? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. The proposal by the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development was not accepted because 26 representatives and representatives voted against it, 74 against. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Law on Special Tax on Tobacco Products. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Special Tax on Tobacco Products has been adopted by a majority of 74 votes in favour, 24 against and 2 abstentions. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We continue to work and move on to - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Disturbation in Sports Competitions, second reading, P.Z. No. 248 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Justice Committee. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
