ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31429	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So, very briefly. What does the Customs Act normally do? And last year when there were changes, or when we discussed it, only briefly. Therefore, to regulate the powers and practices of the customs office and the rights and obligations of persons participating in the procedure with the goods to be introduced, to represent, transport and transfer to the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia or to move between the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia and third countries. With these amendments and the additions that are ahead of you, so we have one, we can say so to the only amendment, which is therefore in the provisions of Article 224. Therefore, these amendments, i.e. the amendment and supplementation proposal, are defined, i.e. they fully regulate legal relations in relation to the obligation of subsequent registration when the amount of the duty resulting from the customs debt is not entered in the prescribed manner or is registered in a lower amount than the one requested, thereby fully harmonising the provisions governing the subsequent recording of the customs debt. Let me also say, here are the experiences from individual committees, above all from the parent board where the same questions have been asked by individual representatives about the reasons for these changes. I must say, then, that this is related exclusively to Chapter 33 - Financial and budgetary provisions. Therefore, our intention was to fully comply with the Chapter of the Customs Union, but later on, we can say so by inspection, the subsequent European Commission mission which was here in Zagreb has found that this article requires more detailed regulation, i.e. to regulate these legal relations relating to the subsequent recording of the customs sum, i.e. customs debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31430	Thank you. Do the work bodies want reporters? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31431	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, an esteemed colleague and colleague. At the 31st session held on 27 March 2009, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law amending the Customs Law, with the Final Bill and discussed it as a home working body. In its opening statement, the Government of the Republic of Croatia pointed out that the proposed amendment to this law fulfils the obligation made during the negotiation process in Chapter 33 — Financial and budgetary provisions relating to the subsequent recording of the customs debt. Such an amendment of the law in question is a further harmonisation of the Croatian customs legal system with the legal property of the European Union in Chapter 29 - the Customs Union. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament unanimously supported the Government's proposal for this law to be adopted under the urgent procedure in accordance with Article 161. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall be governed by the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided unanimously without debate to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law amending the Customs Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31432	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31433	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the State Secretary, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. We have before us the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Customs Code and, among other things, it is said that I will quote that the reform of the customs legislation of the Republic of Croatia as well as the process of harmonising the current Customs Law and implementing rules with the customs legislation of the European Union. They started in '99. the year with the adoption and application of the relevant regulations, and then here it is further stated that, continuously following the amendments to European rules and with the aim of gradually training the relevant Croatian legislative and administrative structures in the process of building a new customs system, the regulations of the Croatian customs system have been repeatedly aligned with the regulations of the customs system of the European Union and the amendments to the Customs Law, the "National Journal" since '99. So all the way up to, I don't know, 2008. etc., etc. Here, I would be most certainly overjoyed that the Croatian customs system is in line with the European Union system. However, this system is not in line, whatever any Ministry of Finance claims. I would be even happier if it were to be brought into line with the European Union system as soon as possible. What we have today, that's all, just not the European standard. Whether someone in this country will take care of it in due course, I do not know that, but I am sure that neither of the countries in the European Union, the Western Balkans, Asia or Africa, the North or South half of the companies that import goods, I claim that neither of those countries are in a situation where companies from the Republic of Croatia are in a situation. Companies in the Republic of Croatia must pay both VAT and customs within 8 days of the goods being declared or imported. There is no such thing in any country on the globe of the earth. It's simply incomprehensible, I won't say crime, but it's incomprehensible. Why? Because, as a rule, these standards only apply to small traders, small importers, small craftsmen or shops, and generally those provisions leave out large commercial houses or large companies. They regularly meet, and the small have to pay both customs and VAT within 8 days. And that's one of the reasons why the VAT revenue is dropping at this point. I like to say clearly that no one in this country is for bigger taxes, so neither am I, but I argue that if VAT and pay at a rate of 23%, not 22% nothing dramatic would have happened, it would have been taken over by traders, but then those traders need to be given something else or the economy that VAT pays not within 30 days but 60 days and that customs would also be paid not within 8 days or as it was until summer last year within 30 days but that it was paid within 60 days. Why this principle is introduced in general that traders or importers must pay customs duties and VAT within eight days. I claim that as many small ones fail, that as many small Krahirs as possible, that as many of those small ones disappear from the market and that they give their place to large importers, large shopping houses, etc. And then he asks himself what's going on here. The kid's closing up, the kid's failing, our kid's disappearing off the market, they're only staying big. I'm not running from the truth. And the big ones clearly hire, and a big full budget, maybe someone will say more than the little ones, but when they come to a town, for example, one big trade chain that big trade chain leaves behind a wasteland, then basically not 10 or 50, but a hundred of those little ones are closing their doors, and I'm saying that two, three times more people in that town are out of work when a big trade chain comes in than when these little merchants were working in that town. So what the IDS Club would like to appeal to is that the customs and VAT payments on import return to those 30 days as we, for at least 30 days, I know it won't be for 60 days, it's almost impossible in this situation. So, back to 30 days like that was, say, there by the sixth, seventh month of last year. So every new legal amendment we have is on the up and not on the better. It's the same as the store, and the shop business on Sundays or holidays. Smart in the head, gentlemen, let's change those provisions. A message should also be sent to Mr Bozanić and Barisic, the Split-Matrician bishop, who says that work ennobles a man except on Sundays. So let the gentlemen see how he does Sunday's Vatican, which is all open and everyone normally works best on Sundays. It's the season, there's no money in the budget for the Church, for us, for the employees, for the judges, for the investments, for the cops, for the doctors, for the teachers, and we're defending people from working on Sundays. It's just, I think it's an evil act to this country, and I guess one day it'll change. I can understand that traders work without profit on that logic "I only give everything to sell" but I can't understand that when in Dubrovnik, let's say, on Sunday, there are two cruisers and when two, three thousand people come off each one or both of them, all shops are closed anyway. I just can't figure it out. I can't figure it out, he's going to Easter in Istria now. Well, there'll be 30,000 guests. So let every guest spend 10 euros in those three days, and then let's figure out how much money is in the state budget. I only claim that VAT can buy one luxuriant blinded BMW. ... Me and my BMW. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's not mine, I'm afraid. God forbid it's mine, but it's not. And I'm just asking you to simply send that message to both the Capitol and the unions that you should simply work. Kaptol, today I read, asks the Republic of Croatia only in Zagreb for 35,000 more properties. Well, let's give them the whole country and see if it's working or not on Sundays. The prime minister opened an egg here in St. Mark's Square yesterday, but the church is a little more practical. We can see they're fighting hard to get back their property. But all in all, I think that what is the essence of this Customs Act is to equalise and our practice with European practice and not to say customs, that VAT in this country must be paid within 8 days. So who can bring in the goods, paint the goods, sell the goods and make some money? No one can. I ask you to keep that in mind and at least give us back those standards that were in force until the 7th month of last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31434	On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31435	Thank you very much. Mr. President, dear secretary of state, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Unlike colleagues, Caine, who came out of the agenda a little bit and used the opportunity to speak critically about other things that are not related to the Customs Act and first of all about the Church, I will only remain in the Customs Law which, otherwise generally speaking, regulates the powers and treatment of customs services and rights and obligations of any person participating in the procedure with the goods being introduced, amounts to, transported or transferred to the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia or moves between the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia and third parties. We also heard from the State Secretary's statement that a customs law was adopted in May last year which was in line with the European Commission's views, however, the subsequent inspection found that, in a small part, when it is regulated with the customs debt, the established customs debt needed to indicate the need for a correction of an article in a small technical detail. This obligation and this amendment of the Customs Code are also based on the European Commission's opinion on the request for membership of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, based on the Council's decision on the principles, priorities and conditions contained in the European partnership with Croatia in 2004 and the commitments made during the negotiation process in Chapter 33 of the Financial Budget Provision. This amendment of the law is further implemented and I believe the final harmonisation of Croatian customs legislation with the regulations of the European Union customs system. My colleague Cain spoke on behalf of the IDS Club not only about customs provisions but also about the application of the Customs Act, the HDZ Club supports the harmonisation of the Customs Act with the legislation of the European Commission, but also supports the more consistent application of each law, as well as the Customs Law. What we've heard is that small and large merchants are particularly treated, it's a problem if that's the case, it's a problem then the application of the Customs Code, not a regulation of the Customs Code. The HDZ Club also supports and firmly states that each legal and physical person is subject to the same treatment and law equally. On the issue of customs and VAT collection, I worked for a long time in the foreign trade, so I know that most countries also immediately charge all the obligations after imports. And customs and excise duty and VAT. These amendments to the Customs Code were first laid down in Chapter 33 of the obligation to carry out the subsequent recording of the customs debt by the end of the second quarter. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Customs law is now fully regulated legal relations in connection with the educational subsequent recording of customs debt. In fact, there has been a situation where no amount of customs debt has been entered at all or is registered at a lower amount than the actual customs debt. It is now governed by this amendment in a way that, within 2 days at the latest, a fixed customs debt or a part of a customs debt which has been less registered. As a result of this above, the HDZ Club supports this amendment to the Customs Code, and it certainly supports the consistent application of this Customs Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31436	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Madam Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31437	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Given how many of us are present here in the morning in the assembly, obviously this bill is far less attractive than yesterday's budget rebalancing, although it actually has a lot of touch points in view of the fact that customs are a very important revenue from the state budget. So here's the Customs Law as the basic regulation of the Croatian Customs Legal System, we talked about less than a year ago, in May 2008. At that time, the amendments and additions to the Customs Code have been made to the obligations taken from the negotiating position for Chapter 29. Customs union. Meanwhile, during the negotiations on chapter 33. Financial and budgetary provisions have highlighted the need for further harmonisation of the Customs Act, fortunately only in one area. It's about the part relating to the subsequent enrollment of the customs debt. In that sense, the proposed amendments to the Customs Code that are currently in place before us are further harmonising the Croatian customs legal system with the legal property of the European Union contained in chapter 29. Customs union. This coordination began, as Mr. Secretary of State first said 10 years ago, 1999. So far, the Customs Law has been amended several times, and it is certain that this harmonisation will not be the last, until Croatia's final entry into the European Union. When I say so, I must also say that it is actually difficult to accept that the harmonisation of one regulation cannot be done at the same time with multiple aspects, i.e.. with several negotiating chapters, but only with one, so that the same laws are repeatedly shortened in the parliamentary procedure at work, that is, we could always say gardens in circles. We recently discussed the Law on Electronic Trade and others on the same principle. What does this proposal really change? Article 224 of the current Customs Code is amended in such a way as to fully regulate legal relations relating to the obligation of subsequent recording of customs debt. What is the subsequent recording of the customs debt, or how does it come about? In accordance with Article 221, Chapter 3 of the current Customs Code, which is called Payment of Customs Debt, it is prescribed that any amount of import or export duties derived from customs duty should be accounted for and recorded as soon as it receives the necessary information, i.e. As soon as it determines the debtor and, of course, the amount of the customs debt. Furthermore, Article 222 of the basic Regulation lays down deadlines for the registration of customs debt in situations where goods are placed in one of the proceedings, except for the procedure for temporary imports with partial exemption from the payment of import customs duties. In accordance with Article 223 of Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 222 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Why is such an importance to the deadlines for enrolling the customs debt in the first place? So because from the moment the customs debt was recorded on the customs declaration, either on a regular basis, any subsequent one actually began to run the customs debt payment deadline. And here we finally come to Article 224 which is the subject of this amendment, which speaks of a situation where the customs debt is not registered in a prescribed manner, so in accordance with the abovementioned Articles 222 and 223 of the Law or if it is registered but in a lower amount than the legal debt. This is precisely the case in which the subsequent recording of the customs debt or its remaining part must be carried out. The subsequent registration must take place within two days from the date on which the customs office determines that fact and shall be able to determine the debtor and calculate the due amount. This Article shall apply from the date of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Thus, the provision of point A remained substantially unchanged, and it speaks of the fact that the subsequent registration will not be carried out in the event that the decision is not to be made or to be entered but in the amount of less than the legal debt, taken on the basis of the subsequently annulled acts. The actual novel of Article 224 shall represent points B and C which provide for entirely new cases where the subsequent recording of the customs debt is not carried out. For example, point B states that the subsequent registration will not be carried out in the event that the amount of debt is not entered into because of the error of the customs authorities, which the debtor could not detect by acting in a way in good faith and in accordance with the applicable provisions on customs declarations. In the same point, the circumstances are also elaborated when the amount of customs debt is not registered because of the preferential treatment of goods. In accordance with point C of Article 224 of the basic Regulation, it is established that the subsequent registration will not take place if the amount of the customs debt is less than the amount prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia that will not be subsequently entered. That is how this legislative proposal represents another step in harmonising the Croatian customs system with the EU Customs Code, as I was saying earlier, it is certainly not the last SDP harmonisation that supports this bill. This team, moreover, is about one technical harmonisation that will contribute to the ever more comprehensive and more efficient charge of customs as an important revenue of the state budget and we will all agree in these recession charging times each kuna is extremely important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31438	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31439	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let me also make a contribution to the debate and these amendments to the customs law and, of course, like my colleague Maric, here's a colleague who spoke on behalf of the SDP Club, I will remain exclusively on the subject which is on the agenda and we have had the opportunity to see today in the opening and yesterday what it looks like when it is significantly deviating from the topic from which it is being discussed, it was really very difficult for me to listen yesterday to the debate on the state budget of the Republic. In particular, this law, the legislative proposal and the more extensive amendments to the Customs Act of May last year, further aligns the customs system of the Republic of Croatia with the legal property of the European Union in Chapter 29 of the Customs Union. The customs system of the Republic of Croatia rests on several basic rules such as the Customs Code, the Customs Tariff Act and the Customs Service Act, of which it is of course the most significant Customs Act. It is, as is the case in other countries of the world and Europe, an extremely comprehensive, complex and demanding system that involves not only the application of customs regulations but also a number of others that also have an impact on the functioning of the customs system. Therefore, in order to fully understand and learn about the customs system of a country, it is necessary, in addition to the country's customs regulations, to know a large part of its extensive, legislative system. Of course, in addition to the quality legal infrastructure governing the rights and obligations of persons participating in passenger or goods traffic between the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia and foreign customs areas, the customs system prescribes certain customs procedures or better stated customs procedures also implies a quality technical and mainly educated human resources in order to fully fulfil the role it is intended to play. I personally believe that the young Croatian state has done very much in the previous period to establish a modern customs system that is already fully in line with the legal acquis of the European Union and fully justifys the purpose of its existence. This should be congratulated on all competent state institutions without whose dedicated work and continuous improvement would not be the same. Since the customs system is also proof of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of each regulated state, its impeccable functioning is of exceptional importance to the security of each country. This importance stems from the purpose of the existence and arrangement of the customs system, as well as the fiscal and protective character of customs itself as the oldest instrument of foreign trade policy. Therefore, the purpose and role of the customs system and within the framework of the laws of the customs procedures prescribed, with the exception of ensuring consistent application of customs regulations and legal treatment in the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia, shall be to reduce the risk or elimination of any adverse events which may arise, by way of input, by means of the amount of transport, transport, transfer and use of foreign goods in the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia or by means of procedures of certain foreign persons or groups. We can conclude from the above that the customs system is extremely important and that its role is multiple and seen as first in the protection of the financial interests of the Republic of Croatia, then in the protection of security in general and in the fight against international crime and global terrorism. All previously made clear about the importance and complexity of the customs system, as well as the customs system of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, we do not need to be surprised at the frequency of the amendments and additions of the Customs Code, in particular if we take into account the global movement in terms of economy and trade, and the continuing pursuit of modern customs services that are on the one hand going towards the simplification and acceleration of the process of the flow of goods and people in international trade, as well as the reduction of customs procedures and, on the other hand, the improvement of the security and protection aspects of customs systems. The reform of the customs system or the legislation of the Republic of Croatia and the process of harmonising the Customs Law and its implementing rules with European Union legislation, we could hear today on several occasions, began in 1999. The customs law of the Republic of Croatia and the Regulation implementing the customs law in previous years have been amended on several occasions and all in order to gradually train the relevant Croatian legislative and administrative structures in the construction of a new and modern customs system in line with the applicable provisions of the customs regulations and practices of the countries of the European Union. It is important to stress that the level of compliance of the Customs Code is extremely high because its latest amendments and additions have fully been made from the negotiating position of Chapter 29. Customs union. These amendments and additions to the Customs Code are purely technical and stemmed from the negotiations relating to Chapter 33 of the Financial and Budgetary Provisions during which the need for further harmonisation of the provisions of the customs law in the section relating to the recording of the customs debt was demonstrated. It is practically an amendment to an article that is in one part nomotechnically edited and complemented in the other part. In order to fully regulate the legal relationship, in relation to the obligation, the registration fee, when the amount of the duty arising from the customs debt is not registered in a prescribed manner or registered in a lower amount than the one requested. In this way, the provisions of the Customs Code governing compensation and registration, the sums of the customs debt and the further harmonisation of the Croatian customs legal system with the legal property of the European Union are fully aligned. For all the above, I will personally fully support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31440	Thank you we have one replica, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31441	Yes, as colleagues said ahead and here's a colleague rightly points out that we should support this law and as our colleague Jelash said on behalf of the SDP Club. But there really is a question of application and the existing Customs Code. These are some high criteria. We need to understand that customs service is extremely important, first of all for income, for state physics, it's number one. Secondly, it is very important in the fight against corruption and organised crime as a colleague mentions. That's why it's inadmissible for customs to serve as an example for... We're aware that we're going to have to fire a larger number of customs officers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, a hasty recruitment of new people is being carried out, so we have an example, here I am not going to talk about names now, but we have an example that a man is being set up as head of the outpost before that outpost is even formally organized or started. Also, the union organization within customs leads to many having problems with the superiors because of their poor performance. What's happening to them? They make various transfers, often both illegal and misused, as a means of pressure on unsuspecting customs officers. The recent death of Ecija Zaca, therefore Customs Officer Pula, is being brought into contact with it. He died right at work, or on the road from Zminj, from where he works to Pula Customs. So that's what the Independent Customs Union is talking about, warns about these things, but apparently no one reacts. This is an example of how engagement, professional engagement, zealous engagement is not rewarded but that people suffer the consequences. Unfortunately, that's how society is almost in all segments.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31442	Thank you. Answer, Mr Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31443	Thank you very much. I did indeed speak in my debate about the importance of the customs system of every state, and so did the Republic of Croatia, so in that fiscal part, and also this security section that you mentioned. I really don't understand why you're doing this right now, because you're talking about something else entirely. So, you were talking about your own fantasy of receiving similar ones. We know by what law civil servants and tenants are accepted and we know how it works. You are also well aware that no procedure relating to this law can be missed and no official can be previously admitted to the State Administration before the tender is published, or before the Internal Order provides for certain posts. About these other things you said I don't understand at all, I don't have that kind of information you're talking about. But I'm really surprised that the SDP, we could see it yesterday in a parliamentary debate on the budget of the Republic of Croatia, I have repeatedly reacted here that it amazes me that we can thus belittle government employees. It was precisely the case of representatives of the SDP who simply underestimated, saying that we had an unprofessional administration, that we had a bulky administration, etc., etc. And I've always stood in the position of defense of the state administration. And yesterday we had the opportunity to see how much SDP is taking care of, how much care it is and how sad it is that the salaries of the state administration are being reduced, which reduces the salaries of public services in the objective circumstances in which the Republic of Croatia is today, in order to achieve the stability of the financial system and to preserve the jobs that we have in the Republic of Croatia. I really don't know why my colleague's replicated her because she's been taking a significant turn on the subject and she's been talking about some things that I absolutely don't understand, I actually have information about such things or such violations of regulations and laws, I don't have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31444	Thank you. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31445	Your Honor. I find it extremely difficult because of what I heard from Mrs. MPs, I also want to express my condolences to the Zec family, but also to the Kuparic families who have suffered... Buzzette. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] But we can't argue that because of the transfer, the reason why it happened to them is fundamental. From Zminj to Buzet you have 50 km, how much you have from Zminj to Pula or from...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31446	What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31447	Well, I know it's not an correction to the Rules of Procedure, but it just can't be claimed that the reason... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31448	This is a replica of the replica, so it's not based on the Rules of Procedure. Please don't use that. It's Mr. Representative Kresimir Gulic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31449	Your Honor, the government's representatives. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I will, in any case, support these amendments to the Customs Code, as the Customs Code regulates the powers and conduct of the customs service and the rights and obligations of persons participating in the procedure with goods, which are brought, entered, transported or transferred to the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia or moves between the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia and third countries. The reasons for the adoption of the law annexed are as follows. The Republic of Croatia shall take part in the negotiations under Chapter 33. Financial and budgetary provisions, which are said to comply with the provisions governing the subsequent recording of the amount of customs debt by the second quarter of 2009. The reason is also further harmonisation of Croatian customs legislation with the regulations of the European Union customs system. What is wanted by these amendments to the law? The main objective is to meet the commitments made under the negotiations under Chapter 33. Financial and budgetary provisions in order to fully comply with the provisions of the Customs Code governing the subsequent recording of the amount of customs debt. Furthermore, the tendency is to bring the Croatian Customs Code in line with European customs regulations and to create a legal framework as closely as possible in the European Union. In this respect, it is necessary to ensure that the customs system and the Croatian customs service and related economic operators reach the level of European customs standards at the time of accession. The obligation to adopt the proposed law is set out in the opinion of the European Commission in its application for membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, the decision of the Council on the principles, priorities and conditions contained in the 2004 European Partnership with Croatia, the commitments made during the negotiation processes in Chapter 33. Financial and budgetary provisions. What changes in these changes? The subsequent recording of the amount of customs debt shall be changed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that The customs code shall be fully established as regards legal relations with subsequent registration obligations when the amount of the duty resulting from the customs debt is not entered in the prescribed manner or is registered in a lower amount than the one requested and is thus fully aligned with the provisions which determine the subsequent registration of the customs debt. For the sake of this above, I will support the amendments to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31450	Thank you. And Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31451	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, I'm not going into the substrate of this proposal for a law amending customs law, with the final bill of law. It is clear that this is a alignment with the acquis and the laws of the European Union, in accordance with Chapter 33 - Financial and budgetary provisions as well as Chapter 29 - Customs Union. Already colleagues before me have actually said everything about content, so the very substrate of the core of these bill proposals, but I am personally more interested in something else. That is, Article 2 and Article 3 in this final proposal for a law amending the Customs Code. Article 2 states that the rules implementing this law will comply with the provisions of this law within 3 months of its entry into force. And in Article 3, this law shall enter into force on the 8th day of its publication in the People's Newspaper. Now, I wonder myself, and they ask my friends, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia when we are already harmonising these laws with the acquis of the European Union, which I think is good, then I wonder when they come into force because the European Union is not a caritative association, it has its own interests, it also has its objectives, and therefore, Croatia has them. Interests are mutual. Now, we are passing laws here, to say to the full pair, this Croatian Parliament, this High House, we are running, to say the marathon with the laws and the acquis of the European Union, and I think we have passed many laws, not prematurely, but that we should have brought them with a provision to enter into force on the day of Croatia's entry into the European Union. So, when Croatia enters the European Union, on that day these laws come into force. In some ways, if we already had conditions set by the European Union, including these unfortunate Slovenia, we might be in a better position for some things, so we wouldn't be buying a farm plot of 4 million square meters on Peljesac and some other things that today is not the time, and since it is the Customs Law, such things would not happen. For this reason, to protect our Croatian interest, I think that this is how we make laws and say that they take effect within 3 months, instead of saying that they come into force, the first day of Croatia's entry into the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31452	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, final Mr. Secretary of State Zdravko Marić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31453	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, just for a little while, let me thank the clubs and the individual debate. First of all, what they supported, we can say so, and recognize our joint efforts to bring our customs legislation in line. Just for a little while, let me look back on this part of the adjustment to the debt payment deadlines. You know, last year, in the middle of the year, we talked about it, we discussed it here in the Parliament, and you know for yourself that we said that this is something that the European Commission, or the Union, insists on killing and killing in some way, we can say that we have come up with a significant period of time for harmonisation and thus left enough time for our entrepreneurial sector to adapt. These 10 days for payment deadlines from the notification of the customs debtor are fully in line with the European Union legislation, all European Union countries have that. Also, let me say, in general, Chapter 29 of the Customs Union. So, in addition to this debt adjustment, certain provisions concerning information connection, generally information technologies have led us to have very clear and clear signals and information from Brussels today that we have practically met all the criteria relating to the closure of Chapter 29. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31454	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met. Third, the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Customs Code. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 312. The proposal was proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Customs Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that this Law amending the Customs Code was passed by a majority of votes, 129 votes to five abstentions and two against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31457	I would like to thank Mr. President, Your Honor. Therefore, these amendments and additions to the law are in line with the legislation of the European Union, and these amendments must ensure that health institutions are required to carry out the activities of taking, storing and transplanting tissues to be subject to authorisation issued by the competent authority, in which they must comply with the prescribed conditions. The proposed law also regulates the authorisation to carry out the activities of taking, storing and transplanting tissues, so that this authorisation is granted by the Minister responsible for health care, provided that the health institution meets the conditions for carrying out certain activities with regard to space, professional workers, medical and technical equipment, quality system and other conditions. Therefore, these amendments and additions to the law are defined by the sending of a notice to the Ministry of any new information which affects the addition or modification of the documentation to the application for the authorisation to carry out that activity and also by these amendments to the applicable law, the Minister shall be governed by the official duty to decide on the withdrawal of the authorisation to carry out the activity if the health institution no longer fulfils the prescribed conditions for carrying out that activity. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Directive 2004/23 of the EC, the proposed law contains specific provisions on the import and export of tissues in order to ensure standards, quality and safety. The import and export of tissues shall be subject to a tissue bank approved by the Minister. The proposed law lays down which documents should be attached with a request for authorisation for the import of tissues in order to ensure that the tissue meets the prescribed standards of safety and quality. Also, according to Article 11. Directive 2004/23 of the European Parliament and of the Council, and in accordance with Articles 5 and 6. Directive 2006/86 of the EC of 24 October 2006 implementing Directive 2004/23 of the EC Member States is obliged to establish a system for reporting, research, recording and transmission of information on serious and harmful events and reactions. The proposed law specifically regulates that the Register of Serious and Harmful Events is conducted by the Ministry of Health and is in accordance with Article 7. Directive 2004/23 on verification and control measures proposed by law contain and prescribe provisions on inspection and supervision of professional work in authorised health institutions. The proposed law also contains provisions on the authorisation of laboratories carrying out immunogenic processing and tests for the territory of the Republic of Croatia to determine the conformity of the tissues of the recipients and donors and mandatory testing on the donor parts of the human body. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31458	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Health and Social Care, the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31459	Thank you very much. Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Health and Social Care Committee discussed this law as a parent body. According to the introductory explanation of the legislator's representative, the law which is before us allows for further adaptation of domestic legislation to EU legislation. He specifically warned about the provisions on the system for monitoring and reporting serious adverse events and adverse events, and provisions on the register of these events run by the Ministry of Health and Social Care. The Ministry will prescribe a way to report serious adverse events, adverse events and how to keep their records. Also, the regulation will prescribe and conduct supervision of professional work in authorised healthcare institutions to carry out health inspection by the Ministry of Health and Social Care, the motionary's introductory representative said. At the beginning of the debate, the Committee members highlighted the importance and importance of the transplant programme in the Republic of Croatia, as well as the proposal for amending and supplementing the State budget envisioned an increase in funds for their improvement in the current year. During the debate, it was found that this law very clearly defines the conditions for carrying out the tissue storage activity, the tissue bank. An authorisation for the exercise of the activities of taking, transplanting and exchange of organs shall be granted for a period of four years. Although the deadline may seem too long in the opinion of the board members, it is acceptable. As the healthcare institution for obtaining the authorisation must, inter alia, submit a report on its quality of work indicators issued by the Health Quality and Accreditation Agency with the implementation of a quality, regular, extraordinary health supervision involving supervision of trade societies if they carry out health activities in this area, an effective and significant quality control of health institutions will be achieved during a four-year period. Following an extensive debate, board members unanimously decided to support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Taking and Transplanting of Parts of the Human Body for the purpose of treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31460	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31461	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. We are facing a new step by the Ministry of Health in the regulation concerning organ and tissue transplantation for the purpose of treatment. This time, it is about compliance with the new European Union regulations, which is particularly important because we have entered the organisation of the Eurotransplant in which we receive and give, so we donate bodies at international level under strictly controlled conditions. That is why this coordination is particularly important because otherwise it is an activity that has been experienced in our healthcare system a great positive step that I will talk about a little later. So, as this law says, Mr. Secretary of State regulates. First of all, institutions that can carry out transplant activities are strictly defined, these are clinical organ transplant facilities and transplant teams in other institutions that have to be specifically educated. For each other, special approval of the resolution ministry is required in order to control the conditions both human and equipment conditions of the institution itself. Here it regulates the taking and storage of tissues, which is particularly important because it is a major step in the regulation of transplants and trade in tissues that develops intensively in us and in the world. In particular, authorised laboratories that can control these tissues are determined and it is also important to strictly regulate the import and export of tissues, so this new activity that is in motion is put under strict control. Therefore, tissue imports need to prove the benefit of the use of imported tissue, the purpose of use and the proof that there are no such available tissues in Croatia, and it is necessary to establish for export that we have a sufficient amount of tissue for our own purposes, so that we have a surplus of produced tissues for export and there is also a medically justified reason for that export. Of course, strict control of the origins of the tissue and modes of transport and its storage is also needed. The documents attached to the import and export of tissues have also been defined. It is also important to stress that in terms of space, equipment and personnel in the ministry, a special regulation is developed and that it is also given its opinion by the Medical Chamber. What should be further highlighted in this law is that complete control of this activity is actually regulated by the Ministry of Health and Social Care, that supervision takes place not only on health institutions involved in organ and tissue transplantation but also on legal persons involved in the production and trade of tissues and all commercial societies that can carry out this activity by law. So these entities are also covered by surveillance. Perhaps one of the best quality steps is to define serious adverse events and adverse events. Serious adverse events are events related to the taking, storage and transplantation of parts of the human body if they have negative consequences for the spread of infectious diseases, the threat of health or the life of the patient and adverse events are related to occurrences with the same characteristics. Both must be strictly notified to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health shall, upon notification, keep an eye on these harmful and particularly harmful events and report to the European Union on such events to the Central European Register. With all these changes organ and tissue transplants in Croatia will be even safer than so far, and the law comes at the right time, because I would like to highlight the great, I would say, in fact an extraordinaryly large development of this branch of medicine in the last few years. Although we have a great tradition in transplants, but it's no problem I transplant an organ, the problem is to organize a system that can do it in as large a number as possible to save as many lives. So there are two big problems. It is one thing to organize a donation service, expand the awareness of what it means to donate out of love a part of the body of a person who unfortunately has no chance of staying alive and with such a donation to save someone else’s life. That's what's been going on for the last few years. On the other hand, professionally educate these highly qualified teams, organise their 24-hour preparedness under limited financial conditions, of course, as they rule in our health system. And yet the step is very large. I'd just like to list a few indicators. The organ transplant in 1998 had 48 kidneys transplanted, last year 149. Therefore, the number of kidney transplants has tripled and the number of institutions doing so has spread. Lizards 2003, 8, 2008. 14 and this year we'll have them safely about 20 as it started in the quarter. The biggest step is in liver transplants, because it's also a transplant that took place later. It was only 1998 that we were able to empower the institutions that would deal with it. And that year we had two liver transplants. Last year 61 and in a specialized facility for transplanting "Mercur" Clinical Hospital in which I have the honour to participate, we are about to celebrate the next month 300 liver transplants, which is therefore 300 lives saved to which this service would be available in the European Union, but very limited, because the number of donated livers is limited, and that service would be 4 to 5 times more expensive there than the system could stand. We are particularly proud of the development of multi-organic transplants, which is one of the most differential procedures in the field of medicine. At this point, we're doing a simultaneous kidney and liver transplant, both kidney and pancreas. Last year we did 14 simultaneous kidney and pancreas transplants. It's a growing number of donors, living donors. At 17%, we've achieved 28% of the organ from living donors. And what that means for our patients, perhaps the best way to say is to shorten the waiting list for a transplant. The largest waiting list of course for kidneys, in patients with renal insufficiency. And that list was numbering 982 patients in 2002, and now it's numbering 346. So three times the number is reduced, which, of course, should not be definitely satisfied, but intensify the effort to save lives even more. And perhaps even to mention our cooperation with Eurotransplant is, therefore, the greatest proof that we have achieved European standards and world standards professionally and organisationally because they have taken us as equal participants in the international organ exchange and transplantation. In 2007, we had 54 bodies from other countries, and we sent them 27 last year from other countries, and we sent 43. So, approximately equal to the number of sent and received, but the advantage is that we can get just the organ for the recipient for whom there is currently no available organ in Croatia that would suit him according to tissue typeing at that time. Thus, it further increases the possibility of saving lives. Perhaps in the end, say what else should be done in this area, except for this good regulation that must follow the development of the profession, thus guaranteeing both the development of quality and control of the entire system. We should work on extending our services to lung transplants. We have a team that can do this but we need to invest a lot of money in the reconstruction of our specialized hospital for lung and thoracal diseases "Jordanovac". I believe the ministry will have that in mind for the next few years. And then we'll be able to say that we offer our patients with heart transplants and all the others I mentioned, all the services that every European citizen has. Therefore, we can say that our health care is also being monitored here by the development of European health care. But with this new law ahead of us and the development of European legislation, we propose that it be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31462	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31463	Thank you, Mr. President. I would briefly say there is a SDP club because this is one topic I really think can be very easy to reach consensus among all parties. So any law that leads to any improvement in this problem is welcome and praiseworthy. So, I will remind you that in 2000, during the SDP government, or coalition authorities, there was a connection between Croatia and the Eurotransplant. So we've started things up for the better, and in that sense, this is another small contribution. Professor Hebrang said more or less that we are currently standing with transplants in Croatia, with waiting lists. Yet it can be said that it is so satisfying when you open a variety of tables and charts and you see that slowly, but surely that line falls. So the number of those waiting for the organs is getting smaller for each individual organ. But, of course, there is still a lot to do, because today if we add up all those who are waiting for organs whether it's the heart, the kidney, the liver or any other organ, there are about a thousand in Croatia today. So about a thousand people are waiting for a new organ, and because of very few of those donors, they will hardly get those organs in the near future. Why is it important to increase people’s awareness of the need for organ donations? Because it's simply a new body that changes a man's life completely. So, the one who was on dialysis yesterday had to spend several times a week in the hospital, and I especially think about those people who don't live in big cities where there are clinical hospital centers than in smaller places and they have to travel, so the quality of life is really unsatisfactory. They're going to change their lives completely with one new kidney. I think we in Croatia are fortunate to have enough people who are very well educated, people who can contribute to making this situation even better and what is important and what would be the need in Croatia to expand the number of hospitals that will transplant organs. So, let's say I'm going to give an example of Osijek here, and we're only doing kidney transplants, so it would be nice if we started to spread that number of hospitals that would work and transplants a little bit more. What I would like to say in the end is that it is important to thank the public in some way here and the media because in the good part of the cases they can sensitize the public and in this sense we expect their help, therefore, on the political side the laws will enable what is allowed to be given, but in any case the media are needed to help strengthen the awareness among people how important it is to give the organ, how important it is to help people, indeed within hours of changing their lives. Here, I wouldn't be any longer, especially longer, I mean, the law is good and in any case we'll support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31464	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31465	Thank you, Mr. President, fellow MPs and fellow MPs, gentlemen of the government. Here, as a doctor, I decided to discuss this item of the agenda and I am also a signator of a donor card that was one action a few years ago with my opinion that this kind of education and media designing of a single campaign in connection with the donation of tissues and organs can help in any case the aim and objectives of this draft law amending and supplementing the laws on the taking and transplantation of parts of the human body for the purpose of treating with the final draft law. Clearly, with the E mark, therefore, compliance with European legislation. I am using this opportunity at this time, and I am using this opportunity to say and thank our teams, teams of our doctors, surgeons, or colleagues from transplant teams who are really in one let's say I won't say bad but one condition is quite scarce, enough, therefore, the depressed manage to arrive at hospitals throughout Croatia in connection with the expansion, and then in their clinics they also perform organ and tissue transplants clearly in those institutions that are authorized to do so. This legislation makes it clear which institutions have the right to do so. So, ma'am... She was talking about Osijek here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is clear here that clinical hospitals have a right to do so. So the clinical hospital and Osijek, if it develops, therefore, if it develops a transplant service clearly it can also be an implantation and transplant centre especially as it is the only clinical hospital in Slavonia. Slavonia and Baranja and Srem. That is why it is not important to mention constantly as is done here from this pay phone or from these places telling stories from a long time ago who started working with the Eurotransplant, who was, when the collaboration started, when it didn't. Therefore, it is important that Croatia monitors trends that colleagues are, therefore, highly professional and qualified, surgeons from transplant surgery and that they do not lag behind European trends at all. There is also regulation in the context of possible abuses, so Article 36 sets out legal regulations in relation to violations, articles of this law, so it is clear what abuse is and when it seems to be a violation of what is in the realm of transplant surgery and even transplants in some countries and Europe at all, but especially outside Europe in the world noticed that many abuses, taking organs from living donors, or with their knowledge or without their knowledge, occur so that there is a lot of things happening in the world. Clearly, there are certain fines for such or similar cases here, and this regulation is indeed the one that will not raise doubts in this House about voting, clearly that the HDSSB club will also be in favour, to raise the hand for the Proposal for this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Taking and Transplanting of Parts of the National Authority and for the sole purpose of treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31466	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Representative Nedjeljko Strikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31467	Thank you very much, Mr. President, here is another law before us that harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the legal property of the European Union. And that's already been said to Directive 2004. 23. The European Community, the European Parliament of the Council of Europe, of 31 March 2004 laying down standards of quality and security for donation, procurement, testing, processing, storage, storage, distribution of tissues and cells of human origin. Accordingly, I would only quote Article 6 of that Directive, says that Member States must ensure that healthcare institutions for the pursuit of the activities of taking, storing and transplanting tissues must obtain the authorisation issued by the competent authority, in which they have to comply with the prescribed conditions. What both the predecessors and the secretary of state said. But what brings us this new law, so Article 1 determines which medical institutions can deal with taking, transplanting organs with the approval of the Minister of Health. And he says that taking and transplanting organs should only be performed by clinical and medical institutions or transplant centres in the text below. And that's good, because we know that our clinical centres are actually made by the finest experts in the area. Exceptionally referred to in point 1. organ collection may also be carried out in displantation centres, there it was thought of all county hospitals and I think it is a good provision that gives the possibility of a wider expansion programme. Article 27a refers to the collection and storage of tissues of which institutions can hold a tissue bank and thus the regulated activities of the institutions. Also in Article 27d, imports and exports of tissues are regulated when imports of tissues can be carried out, but at the same time exports and this is indeed precise and clear. I would still briefly here, and today we heard, said where today is the transplant in the Republic of Croatia and what are the goals in the future. Activities related to the taking and transplantation, storage and exchange of parts of the human body shall be carried out in accordance with the National Transplant Programme. We know that Croatia has this programme. The national transplant programme brings the minister for a period of four years, and the national co-ordinator is in charge of its implementation. I would say here that we must also commend the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Minister of Health and Ministry that in the 2009 budget as well as in the 2009 budget rebalancing that we discussed yesterday, funds for the transplant programme in hospitals with 45 million kuna in 2008 were raised to 77 million kuna in 2009. At the same time, an expansion programme in hospitals, meaning in these county hospitals where it will take place, a budget for this purpose at the Ministry of Health from 2.5 million kuna raised to 7 million kuna, giving quite enough financial resources to enable the programme to be drawn up and realized. I would remind here, however, that the first transplant in medicine was performed in 1905 in Austria, a corneal transplant, performed by Dr. Edwards Zim. At the same time, he would take advantage of the opportunity, as some said, to thank all those doctors and other healthcare professionals in this House, enthusiasts who made the first transplants in the Republic of Croatia. I will also list them because I think they deserve to be mentioned in this High House in the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia. In 1971, the first kidney transplant from a living donor was performed in Rijeka under the leadership of Dr Frančisković. A year later, the first kidney transplant from a dead donor was made. We know that the first heart transplant was made in 1967, Christian Bernard, and the first transplant in the Republic of Croatia in 1988 at the Clinical Hospital Center "Rebro", Professor Josip Sokolić and his associates. At the same time, in 1990, the first liver transplant in the Republic of Croatia, Professor Boci with his associates. In 1993, a lizard transplant in Rijeka, Professor Zelic and his associates. In 2002, the first lung transplant, the Jordanovac Clinical Hospital, Professor Slobodanjak. And there may also be what Professor Hebrang said, and we have further education to do, while at the same time equipping the Jordanian Clinical Hospital to be able to perform a lung transplant. These few historical data show that Croatia has quality professional medical staff capable of performing the most complex transplant procedures in the medicine that are being performed today. Where are we today? Data from the Croatian donor network say that in 2008 149 kidney transplants in the Republic of Croatia, on a waiting list of 364 patients; 20 heart transplants, on a waiting list of about 18 patients; 65 liver transplants, on a waiting list of 60; 14 lizard transplants, on a waiting list of about a dozen patients. A total of 230... Live donors and 240 with dead or cadavers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Europe, about 90% of the donors are dead, 10% of the living, while in the United States, 30% of the donors are alive. Cooperation, we heard this here, with Eurotransplant is really good and 54 bodies have been sent to European transplant centres for the past year from Croatia. That's how 27 kidneys, 5 hearts, 13 lungs and 9 livers were sent. At the same time, we received 38 organs, up to 28 kidneys, 2 hearts, and 10 livers. I would now say something about research conducted in the Republic of Croatia about what citizens think about organ donation and may be satisfied that the results are that almost 70% of respondents have declared organ donation, 8% would not donate their organs, 21% do not know, and 1% do not want to. I would only quote here a quote in 2000 in Rome for the 18th World Transplant Congress by Pope John Paul II who left the Vatican to attend some scientific gathering. He did so in order to send two messages to the world: that brain death is consistent with Catholic moral science, the end of human life, and he wanted to encourage organ transplants into clinically dead people to help incurable patients. John Paul II, quote him, "All that can be served alive is sin to be buried." The Pope sees great ethical value here, for by giving our own body we give a part of ourselves. So also the Catholic church and the pope himself encouraged the population to donate organs. And I think that in Croatia and Croatia the donor network and a lot of people with donor cards gives us an even greater perspective that organ transplant in the Republic of Croatia will be even better. For these reasons, I will absolutely support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31468	First we have one replica. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31469	Dear President of the Parliament. Comrade Strikić, you mentioned in this exhibit that is very good, that today there is a law that can hold a tissue bank and who can introduce and perform these tissues. I think this is very important in regulation, because it is precisely the cultivation of tissues that can be planned, which is possible and necessary to develop in the Republic of Croatia. For example, when there was a major accident in the Kornati and when the situation was, for example, with the self-inflation of students, it was then that very process of treating skin culture and tissue transplantation was very important. At the time, there was a situation that the skin for our victims had to be grown abroad, I think it was in Slovakia. At the same time, there was a question of whether it was possible to do so in our labs. The labs I followed and listened to, they existed, but whether they were ready for it or not, but I think today that part is much better regulated, and that particular growth and tissue through and through these imports and exports certainly has an even greater meaning. And let me just say, this organ donor, it's certainly a significant activity. However, we are always talking about people who either transfer these organs or give them to others, however, as well as how we come and how this education of our inhabitants is. So I think that in this very education of our residents about donations they have great meaning and doctors of family medicine who in their offices are the first ones to talk about what it means to donate their own body to someone else's life. Well, I think they should be, too, and here I mentioned them here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31470	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Sunday Street. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31471	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, I thank the distinguished colleague who gave the replica and, of course, that both our state and the Ministry of Health paid great attention to the import, but also to the export of organs because we know that in some Eastern countries such as India, Asian countries where there is indeed trade in human organs, that this would be prevented and if we see in the legislation of the Republic of Croatia and in this bill of law that has been passed by the Ministry and Government, I am decided and I do not see from this law that there could be organ trafficking in the Republic of Croatia, which is good. At the same time, what you were saying about the organ bank and if we were in the Republic of Croatia, this was about skin transplants and skin cultivation, we're not doing it because we're not possible yet. Of course there is cooperation because doctors are, and especially surgeons, not to say for centuries, they've always had, the world has been one and the same. It's just being transmitted now. The Eurotransplatt data itself tells us how much cooperation the Republic of Croatia has had with European countries last year that we gave the authorities that needed in Europe to our transplant centres, and at the same time when we needed it and when the tissue typeing showed that they could be transplanted to our citizens, this is also the one information that you said was important family medicine and awareness. I don't think it's the consciousness of the people and I haven't read the message of St. John Paul II for no reason. which he said, and Croatia is a Catholic country with 93% of the population who have declared that it is very important that clinical death is truly death and that from that moment on it can be an organ donation to save a human life that has perspective. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31472	Thank you. Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31473	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. There, the Croatian Parliament shows that we also have wonderful topics for discussion in which there is, dominated by the very quality of presentations of all my previous colleagues, one humanist line of a very important law. Namely, we have before us the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Taking and Replanting of Parts of the Human Body for Treatment, with the Final Proposal of the Law. The current Law on the Taking and Transplanting of Parts of the Human Body for the treatment of 2004 is current. Namely, Directive 2004/23 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 March 2004 laying down standards of quality and safety for the procurement, procurement, testing, processing, storage, storage and schedule of tissues and cells of human origin has provided a unique framework to ensure high standards of quality and safety of tissues and cells of human origin intended for treatment in order to protect human health. Namely, Directive 2004/23 requires Member States to ensure, first, that medical institutions are required to carry out the activities of taking, storing and transplanting tissues to obtain the authorisation issued by the competent authority, which requires them to comply with the prescribed conditions. In addition, in accordance with Article 6(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, Directive 2004/23/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2004 on the protection of personal data and repealing Directives 2004/23/EC (OJ L 298, 21.7.2002, p. 1). The harmonisation with Article 9 referred to in Directive 2004/23 of the proposed law contains specific provisions on the import and export of tissues in order to ensure standards, quality and safety. As regards the import and export of tissues, the tissue bank which has the authorisation of the minsiter may be engaged. I will also highlight the important 2 Articles 5 and 6. Directive 2006/86 of 24 October 2006. They say that Member States are obliged to establish a system of notification, research, recording and transmission of information on serious adverse events and effects that may affect the quality and safety of tissues and cells and any undesirable effects observed during or after their application that may be related to the quality and safety of tissues and cells. That provision states that competent health institutions are obliged to establish an effective and verified system for monitoring and reporting serious adverse events and to withdraw from the use of tissues that have caused or may cause a serious adverse event. It should also be pointed out that, in accordance with Directive 2006/17, the proposed law contains provisions on the authorisation of laboratories carrying out immunogenetic processing and tests for the purpose of determining the conformity of tissues, recipients and donors and mandatory testing on donors of parts of the human body. That's where I read the same piece of information as far as it goes, Mr Secretary of State means of law enforcement. This is the small part in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 says that the funds are secured from 113 thousand kuna and this refers to the employment of 3 new inspectors. I think that's it. Of course, after all this, of course the Croatian Democratic Community will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31474	Thank you. Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31475	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So we heard the importance and importance of transplant programs. I'm sure those who have experienced the well-being of this remarkable achievement can most certainly bear witness to this, so here I have in my midst these days a happy news that a girl who's been on dialysis for years, here's a girl who's transplanted her kidney, successfully recovering. I wish her as soon as possible to return to the normal track of life to all those who participated in this extraordinary venture, congratulating and thanking. The Ministry of Health is certainly also aware of the importance of these transplant programmes, and in addition to this, they speak these funds, which were allocated more this year than counterpart Strikic spoke more precisely and of course we entered Eurotransplant and this data of 144 transplanted kidneys in 2007 and 60 livers speak enough for themselves. However, as it is an extremely sensitive area, it is necessary and regulated legally, and in this sense the 2004 law was in force, which was adopted in full by the provisions of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Dignity of Human Beings in connection with the application of biology and medicine, of course, with the adoption and the additional protocol adopted by the Croatian Parliament in 2003. However, as these two directives were said to have come in 2004/23 and this 2006 certainly were there, it is necessary to install it into our legislation and to adopt uniform standards and quality. So what's the main news that's being delivered, we've heard a lot of it. So, first of all, that the Minister of Health approves this transplant programme that meets the conditions, of course for four years as we have heard but also needs to be given, to produce this report from the Health Quality and Accreditation Agency for this period. Of course, the Minister may also take this same authorisation if the envisaged standards are not met because that part provides for inspection supervision, as we have heard, that it would be necessary for the three health inspectors to engage with these necessary funds which are in that section and any changes therefore in connection with these transplant programmes are required to deliver to all those implementing this to the Ministry of Health. A special moment in the debates of predecessors is highlighted about the bank of tissues which must therefore, of course, be set in new conditions to keep that quality high. And of course, about exporting not to repeat everything the predecessors said, etc. Secondly, it is still important and the reporting system is necessary to give particular attention to the reporting system in connection with unwanted events in relation to the same procedures so that it is also one of the novelties. And yet perhaps, therefore, it may be necessary that it was not mentioned. So, an immunogenic laboratory that is also very important in that part that will contribute to that quality. Surely all these changes will contribute to an even better transplant programme in our country, and as all predecessors said should support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31476	Thank you. Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go. She's gone. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar has withdrawn. Thank you. So, ultimately, Mr. Drazen Jurkovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31477	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. First of all, I thank all the clubs for their support. I thank you for this one, so I would like to say a nice discussion about this beautiful topic and this beautiful health story about the Republic of Croatia, which has been going on since 1971, so for 28 years since the first kidney was transplanted in Rijeka, and this programme has been intensified since the late 1980s and early 1990s, and this is another proof that in Croatian health, we are also following European and world streams in Croatian medicine. Last year, 240 transplants, 230 dead and 10 live donors were performed in Croatia, of which 65 livers, 159 kidneys, 20 hearts and 14 lizards. For this year, here are 113 thousand kunas provided for only the implementation of this law, but for 2009 82 million are foreseen for the implementation of the transplant programme, which is significantly more than in 2008 when 45 million kuna were scheduled. So, the Ministry of Health and the Minister support this programme, they are aware of the importance of developing this programme in the Republic of Croatia, and they have certainly provided enough funding for the following year, and so will be in the future. I thank you all.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31478	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Taking and Transplanting of Parts of the Human Body for Treatment. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 314. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted amendments. In accordance with the Article of the Rules of Procedure, the amendments tabled must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Who's in favour of having a debate on the government's amendments? Who's in, please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? To conduct the debate is 140. I think there was one against it if you registered it. 140 MPs for and 1 was against it. I would ask the applicant's representative to further explain these amendments. Mr. Secretary of State. Amendment 1 to Article 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31480	So if I'm allowed, then all the amendments proposed by the Government are amendments that change the definition of existing definitions in the draft law in the definition that it is now in line with the 2006 European Union Directive 86, so that all four amendments are technical harmonisation of the term rather than a harmful event of a harmful reaction and all other nomotechnical expressions that this new definition is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31481	So you've explained all four proposed amendments. I am opening a debate on all four proposed amendments to the government. I'm closing the debate. I give Amendment One to the vote, by raising my hands. Who is the proposed amendment 1 to Article 7? Thank you. Against? One. The amendment was accepted by 136 votes for and 1 against. 2. Amendment to Article 8. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Against? One. This amendment was adopted by 136 votes in favour and 1 against. Amendment 3. Who is for this amendment, please raise your hand to Article 9? Thank you. Against? With 135 for and 1 against this amendment has been accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following Who's in? Thank you. Against? This amendment was adopted by 136 votes for and 1 against. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the collection and transplantation of parts of the human body for the purpose of treatment. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The law was passed by a majority vote with 128 votes for, 3 abstentions, nothing against along with accepted amendments. We move to - Final proposal for a law on the confirmation of the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Water Protection Project on the coastal area 2, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 313 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal to discuss this law in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, the Committee on Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mr. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Regional Development Zdravko Krmek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31483	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of you is the proposal for a law on the confirmation of the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a project on water pollution protection in the coastal area of phase 2. But let me start by saying something about this complete procedure, it means technical coverage itself, and I'll also say something later on about this second stage that's in front of you today in your assembly benches. First of all, I would like to say that for the purposes of this project, we have analyzed settlements in all seven Adriatic counties, i.e. a total of one million 133 thousand 892 residents, according to the 2001 census. After these analyses, we received about 50 cities and municipalities that entered into the scope of this project and what is most important of all is that we also took care of the uniqueness of the municipal area, but we also took care of ecologically sensitive locations. Let me also say, so the number of inhabitants in these 50 cities and the municipality is in total cca 480 thousand inhabitants, but the equivalent of construction, so there were wastewater treatment devices, there were sub-sea discharges of 850 thousand equivalences, which means that we took care of the economy as well. So first of all, about tourists coming to our coastal area during vacations. I also want to say that the total investment is somewhere around 280m euros. Of which is half, or 50% is the International Bank's loan for Reconstruction and Development, and half are domestic sources. I also want to say something about what we've done in the first stage so far. First of all, I want to say that by the end of 2009, we are the total amount and investment on these loans is a total of 550 million kuna. And here, let me also name some of them. So, so far, we've built either sub-sea discharges or wastewater treatment devices in 11 municipalities and cities. It is a device with a submarine discharge in Zadar total of 126 million kunas, Biograd, i.e. the complete Biograd Riviera 95 million kunas, Rogoznica 16 million kunas, Makarska 5.3 million kunas, Omis, Long War 24 million kunas, Opusen 8.5 million kunas, Opatija 130 million kunas, Rijeka 36 million kunas, Novigrad 33 million kunas and Pula 47 million kunas. As I was saying in the introduction means by the end of this year, the loan will be realised in 100% amount means all 550 million kunas will be realised. But let me also say something about this second stage, so what's in front of you today in the assembly benches. I would like to say that we receive this 60m-euro loan under extremely favourable conditions. So given these loans that can be obtained on the financial market. And here I'm saying that through this loan, means through this second stage that 30 more cities and municipalities in the coastal area will get wastewater treatment or sub-sea discharges. Well, I'd just like to list some of them who are already close to getting that money out of this loan. It is Cres, Mali Lošin, Poreč, Rab, Murter, Nin, Privlaka, Sukosan, Bibinje, Vodice, Hvar, Super, Bol and are also very fast candidates are National Park "Mljet", Župa Dubrovačka, Primosten, Metković, Vela Luka, Rovinj, Pula and Medulin. What I particularly want to point out here is that we will also receive a donation from the Global Environment Fund for the total amount of $6.4 million. I want to point out here that we're going to spend this money on making studies, also all the necessary technical documentation. Also monitoring for the construction of parts of waste water treatment devices, which relate to Poreč,... Metkovic and Opusen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, I would like to say that this money will also be spent on raising the capacity of utility companies. Because we also agreed that after the devices have been built, municipal companies will also be trained to manage these wastewater treatment systems in part. And we're also going to finance a very important element, which is the quality of seawater. So we will also do monitoring of the quality of seawater and thus contribute to the development of our tourism and economies in this area as a whole. Finally, I would like to add and ask that together we all support this bill, or the bill, is this about the extremely favourable money that we can get from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31484	Thank you. Would the representatives of the board like to? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Environmental Protection, the chairman of the Committee of Ms. Mariana Petrir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31485	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. The Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Water Protection Project on the coastal area 2 with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by a Act of 25 March 2009. In addition to the proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. The Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction on the basis of Article 140 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as interested working bodies. In its opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the proposed law confirms the loan agreement for the Water Protection project in coastal area 2 signed in Zadar on 6 February 2009 by representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and by representatives of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development granted a 60m-euro loan to the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of a programme aimed at improving, providing efficient and sustainable wastewater disposal and treatment services in the coastal area and improving the quality of seawater along the Adriatic coast by reducing the load of nutrients. The programme is implemented in three phases, the total cost of implementation of the programme is around 280m euros, the water pollution protection project in coastal area 2 represents the second phase of the programme. The amount of 60m euros is projected to be realised over a five-year period starting from the date on which the loan becomes effective, i.e. from 6 June 2009. Appropriations from the project in the second phase will be used to invest waste water, to build recovery, to expand the disposal system along with the construction of wastewater treatment devices with the effect of reducing the load of nutrients in selected municipalities. Institutional strengthening and management of the programme, i.e. institutional strengthening of the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy and Croatian Water and for institutional strengthening of municipal enterprises, and monitoring of marine water quality, i.e. increasing the waste water and sea water quality monitoring network. The contract provides for the repayment of the 60m-euro loan to start after five years of starting, will include units of local self-government and Croatian water in the period from 2014 to 2023 in the ratios to be defined by the sub-loan contract. After the discussion, the committees unanimously decided, the Committee on Environmental Protection with 8 votes in favour and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction with 8 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Water Protection Project in the coastal area of two. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31486	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Madam Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31487	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the government's representatives. At the very beginning of the presentation on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Water Protection Project in the coastal area, this is the second phase with the Final Proposal for the Law, I would like to say that the Club of Representatives and Representatives of the SDP will support this bill. I recall a contract that allows for the financing of a second phase of an extremely important Adriatic project aimed at improving the provision of efficient and sustainable wastewater disposal and treatment services in the coastal region of the Republic of Croatia and improving the quality of seawater along the Adriatic coast, reducing the load of nutrients. This project includes construction, modernisation, reconstruction, improvement of the water draining and treatment system and is realised on the principle of active participation of local self-government units in cooperation with relevant government agencies. The programme is not a local but regional character and is realized in a coastal area with great tourist potential, important for the development of a sustainable Croatian economy. In view of the small financial opportunities of local self-government in the area mentioned, the implementation of the programme is financed from the available funds of Croatia, the state budget, the Island Development Fund, the Croatian Water Protection Fund and the like, while the rest of the funds are financed through loans, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development which will be returned in the future by end-users of the loan, utility companies through the price of water and Croatian water. The programme is implemented in three phases over 10 years, the first phase that has been completed has lasted for 4 years, the second phase of funding that we now confirm by this law will last for three years, in financial terms the most expensive phase of the project Jadran, i.e. 120m euros, of which 60 million from loans and 60 million from national funds, followed by the third final phase of the project of three years and the value of 80 million euros. The planned costs for the construction of each individual programme are divided into three stages of realisation and divided into costs related to the construction of parts of the system of collection of disposal and part of the system of purification and reduction of purified wastewater, institutional strengthening and management of the programme and monitoring of marine water quality. The total cost of realising the project, as the respected secretary of state said, will be 280m euros. Why is this project so important for Croatia? The reasons are numerous and apply equally to the environmental protection component and to the economic component, and in particular to the positive effects on Croatian tourism, as well as to the social component or raising the quality of life, the population from that area. Covering all three components on which sustainable development rests, this project does indeed make a real project of sustainable development, and it is an exceptional pity that we no longer have such projects in Croatia, especially during the crisis and recession in which we are so deeply immersed. Because precisely recognising the opportunities for development provided by such projects, sustainable development projects allow for the transformation of the crisis into an opportunity or opportunity to restructure the overall economic model on which Croatia rests. Certainly, the most important aspect of this project is that of environmental protection or environmental protection, as we like to say so in a Colloquial sense, because the Adriatic Sea and the Adriatic coast are definitely Croatia's most valuable natural resources. Or, better said, the wealth of the country and our obligation is to keep them as spotless and as effective as possible. And the ecological threats to the Adriatic Sea and the coast are extremely large and come not only from the coast, i.e. land, which is the scope of this project, but also from the sea and here in the first place I mean the most different pollutions from the ships as well as any haemataria on the infrastructure, cracks of the pipeline and the like, rising sea temperature, invasion of allohtonic species, especially... Or subtropical algae like... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fact is that the situation in this sense, especially in terms of pollution of the sea from land, is extremely bad because the Adriatic is polluting with municipal and fecal waters, the absence of even elementary sewers and the purification of waste, municipal and fecal waters that we don't even talk about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unaccounted for the contents of septic caves directly into the sea, not cleaning industrial wastewaters, without the existence of a system of cleaning fecal waters from ships and yachts in Croatian ports and marinas. Don't let me count on it. Lately, in the coastal area, we are faced with another extremely dangerous phenomenon that the state and other inspection services are silent, i.e. not at all or at least insufficiently keeping account of, and this is the association of irresponsible individuals and their connections, waste, communal, or fecal waters to the coastal water draining system. As long as responsible state services today do not stop and most decisively sanction these non-organic and financial criminal activities, I am afraid that in the future we will very hard and expensively correct the development consequences of these objectives and those of the ecological and economic ones. Unfortunately, even though this extremely positive project is already in Croatia, it is not entirely as it should be. In this sense, I will mention the project of wastewater purifiers in the town of Pula whose construction was presented exactly a year ago by representatives of the banks and Croatian waters. The mentioned network of wastewater treatment systems in Pula united in the project Jadran is unfortunately based on the application of so-called "the Adriatic Sea". mechanical-chemical technology which is cheaper but environmentally significantly less acceptable than mechanical biological treatment of waste water. The application of mechanical and chemical technology creates very large amounts of fecal or sewerage mud, and the project is not exactly defined how this waste mud will be further managed. Such failures and short-sighted planning should not take place in the realisation of such extremely important projects, which concern among other things and the protection of waters which are also according to the proposal of the Water Law, which we will soon have in the second reading again in the Assembly, therefore which are generally not in private possession and have special protection of the Republic of Croatia. The second thing is that the provisions of the law are later completely refuted by this initial premise of the Water Law. And therefore, in the SDP club, we believe that unfortunately, regardless of the positive side of such programmes as the Adriatic project, we have very much to worry about and worry about both the fates of our land waters and the fates of the Adriatic Sea. In fact, events over the past few years, especially since we read the Water Bill proposal, say that the government does not refer to water and water resources with respect that water as a strategic resource, as a fundamental prerequisite for life without doubt deserves. Because unfortunately, inadequate treatment of waste water is the second biggest problem of environmental protection in Croatia. This specifically means that we have an inadequate system or even a lack of wastewater management system. In Croatia, 60% of the population has no sewage connection, and sewerage is a basic prerequisite for the construction of wastewater treatment systems. Uncleaned wastewaters, both municipal and industrial, cause major and permanent soil pollution and polluting of extremely valuable sources of groundwater that are our strategic resource or should at least be. Although research in continental Croatia has proved the presence of large quantities of high-quality mineral waters, some of the sources are thousands of years old, the export of water from Croatia is negligible, and when there is water it is exported as raw materials in tanks and tanks, not as a final product, the brand by which Croatia is known in the world. But the responsibility of the state to water as a strategic resource does not cease here, so in many cities in Croatia, the losses from the water network amount to a scandalous 40%. In addition, the population of Croatia is uneducated in terms of the importance of water protection as an extremely important resource, and this is seen from the daily conduct of the vast majority of the Croatian population. The population, despite the existence of taps that are easy to stop the flow of water when washing hands, teeth, dishes, and the like, do not use that possibility. In the sewer today, many citizens and citizens release various waste oils that irreversibly pollute millions of liters of water. It is regrettable that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not recognise the importance of public education for rational and responsible water consumption as a priority political issue. Under HDZ rule, no public campaign has been implemented to draw the public's attention to this extremely significant problem. Should we mention daily examples of unscrupulous extraction of gravel from the troughs of our rivers that irretrievably pollute our underground waters, so-called. the strategic resource of the 21st century. And all with the help of the state structures lurking in both eyes of such illicit practices. As a result of everything previously said, in the SDP, we must conclude that the state today treats water as maternal, and this maternal relationship with water will continue in the future, judging at least by the proposed Water Law, which, among other things, de facto enables water privatisation and fits nicely into a package of laws such as golf courses and agricultural land that allows for new privatisation, this time not over businesses but above the most valuable natural resources. Following everything previously said, in the SDP club, we hope that the state will be responsible for the implementation of the second phase of the Adriatic project, if not for any other reason, because of the anti-corruption provisions which form part of this law or contract between the BRD and the Republic of Croatia, that is to say, international supervision of the implementation of this project, because we are obviously not able to do so from the overall water relationship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31488	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31489	Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State. Your Honor, gentlemen, the MPs. Here in this Law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, it is literally stated that the costs of the programme were allocated as follows, whether or not they were. At the first stage of the project, 40m euros in loans and 40m euros in national funding, means 1 kuna goes to another kuna or 1 euro goes to another euro in the equivalent of kuna. Then the second phase of the project, this is what we are now discussing, 60m euros in loans and 60m euros in national funding. Then in the third phase, which is ahead of us, 40m euros and 40m euros, another 40m euros in national funding. The first-stage water pollution project, as explained here, aimed at improving the quality of coastal waters of the Adriatic Sea, in order to ensure that local communities involved in the project meet European Union environmental standards in a financially and operationally sustainable manner. The first phase of the programme is successfully implemented in 11 municipalities, towns along the Adriatic municipality. These investments include the construction, recovery, expansion of the disposal system along with the construction of the treatment plant and, among other things, the reasoning here states that this 60m-euro loan, which is now being returned after five years of starting the local self-government unit and Croatian water in the period 2014-2020, according to the repayment plans until the final repayment of loans, etc., etc. What is certainly important is that these funds are extremely favourable and that normally there is, to put it this way, a real jag of coastal cities to come into a position of spending these financial resources. What's also interesting to mention, and I think maybe it's crucial, who pulled the instrument at this first stage. Let's start with Istrian cities, it was Pula 47 million kuna, Novigrad 33 million kuna, City of Rijeka 36 million kuna, Omis 24, Opatija 130 million kuna, Biograd 95 million kuna, Zadar 126 million kuna. In the second phase, as stated by the State Secretary, it should be or should be assumed that at this stage, the problem of disposal in Cres, Mali Losinj, Poreč, Rab, Nin, Prevlaci, then Bibinima, Vodice, Hvar, Bol, etc., should be addressed, etc. It's interesting who got the most money. This is Opatija 130 million kuna where HDZ is in coalition with Muzor. Then it's Biograd 95 million, Zadar 126 million kuna. What should be avoided, however, when it comes to these funds is political arbitration. All the money is clearly needed, but some people find that money easier, and others find it much harder. The closer you get to power or the better with power, the easier it is to get to this money. When the state, and yesterday was a budget rebalancing, cannot track from the budget the needs of cities, municipalities, regardless of the degree of centralisation, this is extremely interesting money. He could almost be told that the only one left in the country that is "before bankruptcy" as the prime minister said, is the only money left for the state to invest. What is even more interesting is that the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development has another kuna on one kuna of this money, whether from the local budget, or from these Croatian extra budget funds. This story is also the story of Croatian extra-financial funds which, as we have opportunities to notice, we do not control as we control budget expenditures. This best testifies, say, yesterday's debate during the rebalancing. Often, money is not controlled in these extra budget funds, or rather wastes uncontrollably, it is directed, it can also be said that I do not now explain it, on the roads towards some ruling environments. That's the point. Now, after this 60m-euro contract, another heavy 40m euros goes. What IDS is asking is that both Poreč and Pula are involved in this programme now ahead of us in phase two, especially the Medulin Municipality. The problem with this work is acute, so I'm talking about Medulin and it needs to be included in this program. If the gentlemen in Medulin are doing anything about it, I don't know. If they knew about that program, I don't know, but I'd also invite them to make a request because it's about substantial funds. 50% to put it that way, more than 50% non-refundable. What I personally think is that these extra budget funds should be included in the budget. If we exclude the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, if we exclude this pension system, means extra budget funds, then in these funds it is now concentrated somewhere between 7 billion kuna and 8 billion kuna. It is 7-8% compared to the Croatian budget. 3.5 to 4% of gross social product. With the pension, or Croatian Health Insurance Office, we come somewhere almost 40 billion kunas, and then a man rightly asks himself the question of who controls these extra-account funds in this country? If they are controlled, clearly they are controlled, but not nearly as much as that is the case with the budget. What is kind of a criticism to us, we are clearly focusing on the budget, and public enterprises plus these extra budget funds are almost untouchable, and there is also the greatest nepotism and the greatest bias and the greatest similarity and the greatest party influence, not to say something else far more difficult. I would almost dare say that today the powerful people who run these extra- budget funds, who run public enterprises rather than ministers, are powerful. For example, Croatian roads, Waters, Croatian highways, this employment fund, that we don't talk about Croatian forests, HEP, Croatian radio television, Croatian insurance, lottery etc., etc., where people who are headed by these administrations don't ask how many salaries they pay, no cars drive, no bathtubs, no time, no how much they spend on cards, phones, how many people employ etc., etc. So I would dare say that they are far more of a problem at this point than the ministries are competent and that someone in this House should start to decide or deal with them, or you should deal with them. What's just as interesting when we talk about this money. The total is 140m euros, which means over 1 billion kuna, which is another 1 billion kuna, means 2 billion kuna. What I'm saying is, I said interestingly, that money can somehow win elections in some parts of that money. What is even more important can be stimulated in some environment by building activity. On these projects, clearly, people can be hired, which is extremely important, some party problem can be solved, which we all know is also possible, and ultimately normally, it is possible to solve the system itself, which is extremely important. The cynic would say the same in this country where we destroyed the industry, mainly in coastal counties, the question is what we have to protect today. And yet to put an end to shipbuilding, I would say, the problem of protecting the Adriatic, to be cynical, will be fully resolved. We'll have cleaner seas than they inherited or found it, better said the Old Slavs. If only there would be jobs, that is what we should start thinking about and in this context we should also start talking about the industrialization of the Republic of Croatia because only from tourism and banking industries simply cannot live. All in all, normally to appeal for one fair distribution of those sixty plus sixty, so 120... Okay, you'll be teaching me an excuse about the syntax of the Croatian outdoors. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, it's about extremely significant money, almost one billion kuna and so much IDS club is about a fair and fair distribution that all these coastal cities, all the counties, are in some way justly represented in the distribution of a billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31490	We have four corrections of incorrect allegations. First is Honourable Representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31491	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, here, I'd like to correct the claim of one who's not exactly a colleague of Cain's who said the following. The allocation of funds depends on the relationship of the local self-government unit with the ruling. That's not true. It's exactly the following. That it's only about how much anybody has done and what the project documentation level is. That's definitely it. And secondly, when you ask the question how much someone got from the funds, Istria certainly got the most because you had enough time to prepare for all these projects because that area at a time when all this together was not and prepared was covered by war casualties.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31492	The second correction to the incorrect allegations is the esteemed representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31493	Your Honor, Vice President. Representative Cain said, in fact, incorrectly stated that the prime minister said the state is ahead of bankruptcy. He never said that, he's in the text of responsible behavior in the state mentioned it but he never said it this way like you said. And since you don't think anything works in this country, then the crisis probably won't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31494	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Frana Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31495	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, first of all, I'd like to correct this same quote as my colleague Kunst. In fact, Prime Minister Sanader did not say that the state is in front of bankruptcy but said that if we act irresponsiblely that we can get there, it is quite clear and logical. The other thing, you incorrectly stated that through this law there could possibly be some party issues like you said. It has nothing to do with any party problems. No party problems can be solved through this law. This is really about the realization of extremely important projects that mean sustainable development and the quality future of the entire coast. Therefore, no party problems can be solved through this.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31496	And the correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31497	I am correcting the inaccuracies of the esteemed colleague Cain, who said that the realisation of these funds is a matter of some sort of criterion for him to have relations with the state government. It's just not true. Not only is it an incorrect quote, but it's contradictory to itself. At the end of his presentation, counterpart Cain said he didn't know if the Istrian cities applied for it. Therefore, Croatia should not be shared in this assembly speaker, someone should be falsely accused. There's a representative of the ministry here, you're a parliamentary representative, you have the right to information. Ask around the cities you consider to be unjustly neglected by you, and then you can see with the Ministry's representative what the reasons are if they haven't received. Not a single piece of evidence that someone under any of you is merely an understandable criterion thrown out. This is still going to the Croatian public and should refrain from such charges.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31498	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31499	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Water Protection Project on the coastal area 2. Following the talks held, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a conclusion at a session held in November 2008 on the adoption of the Report on Negotiations for the conclusion of this contract. The loan contract was signed in Zadar in February 2009, signed on behalf of the Republic of Croatia by the finance minister and on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of the World Bank Office for the Republic of Croatia. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development approved a 60m-euro loan to the Republic of Croatia to help implement a programme designed to improve the provision of efficient and sustainable services and disposal and treatment of waste water in the coastal region of the Republic of Croatia, as well as to improve the quality of seawater along the Adriatic coast. The coastal pollution protection project represents the second phase of the programme to be implemented in three phases and the total costs as already mentioned, means the overall programme amounts to 280m euros. As already stated, but I will repeat that the costs are allocated means in the first stage of 40m euros in loans, 40m euros in national funding, the second phase of this one, which is the subject of today's 60m-euro loan, 60m euros in national funding. The third phase is also foreseen with 40m euros in loans and 40m euros in national funding. This first-stage water pollution protection project aimed at improving the quality of coastal waters of the Adriatic Sea to ensure that local communities involved in the project meet European Union environmental standards in a financially and operationally sustainable manner. The first phase of the programme is successfully implemented in most of these eleven municipalities and cities is near the end. I'll remind you of the units of local self-government that applied for funding from these funds three, four years ago. It is a Zadar sub-project that includes the Zadar sub-sea discharge and also a cleaning device but also a retention pool, a very valuable project. But here's a chance for me to tell Mr. Cain too in time and at a high stage of preparation, the project went to the World Bank as a proposal four or five years ago. So the basic thing that was to meet the requirements of a contract that was signed, which is to perfection arranged, is project documentation. Another project is the bio-city Rivieras very important. Also, project documentation was made in time. Sub-project Rogoznica but also sub-project Makarska, Omis - Dugi Rat, Opuzen, project Opatija, project Rijeka - Grobnik, sub-project Novigrad and also project Pula. The areas with the most intense pollutants, or areas in this first phase, were covered. The second phase of the programme, which is now the subject of this contract, is implemented according to the first phase model and is planned in 30 units of local self-government. The agreed interest rate in the second phase is 2.9%. The project consists of the following components. These are investments in waste water, institutional strengthening and management of the programme, as well as monitoring the quality of marine water. It has been prepared for this phase between 20 and 30 sub-projects, and given the state of preparation in a very recent period, it is planned to sign a sub-loan contract for the following projects, Cres, Mali Lošinj, Poreč, Murter, Rab, Nin, Privlaka, Sukosan, Bibinje, Vodice, Hvar, Supetar and Bol.ž From the Global Environmental Fund's donations which are also an integral part of this and amounting to about 6.4 million dollars are planned to spend on the production of study and project documentation. These are donation funds so they are not credit funds and will monitor the realization of this second phase of this programme. The basic issues proposed to be regulated by this law are therefore the confirmation of the loan agreement for the second part and constitute a legal basis for the use of loan funds for the purpose of improving the provisions, providing efficient and sustainable services and the disposal and treatment of waste water in the coastal area of the Republic of Croatia, but as I have already mentioned improving the quality of seawater along the entire Adriatic coast. From these, the first and second phases, but from one and the second phases, we see that the Adriatic coast is almost fully covered from the north to the south. This 60m-euro loan comes back after 5 years, meaning it is returned by units of local self-government and Croatian water between 2014 and 2023 according to payment plans until the final repayment of loans, and in the ratios to be defined by the sub-loan contract. The Croatian Democratic Community club certainly supports this bill, because I will remind you that the strategic goal of water protection is envisaged by the water management strategy that we recently brought to this House is the intensive construction, recovery and reconstruction of the waste treatment system of municipal waters, and we know that only 658 thousand or 47% of the population are connected in the Adriatic Basin area, with the previous purification of 300 thousand or 24% with the first degree of purification of 148 thousand or 11%, with a second degree of purification of 33 000 or 2% and with a third degree almost no one. In view of the good implementation of the first phase of the project "Adriatic" and the visible results of the project, we, in the HDZ, believe that this is also a guarantee of the success of this second phase, as it will, of course, help achieve the goal previously set out in the Water Management Strategy. And the goal in this area is to increase the level of population integration to the public drain system from today's average of 43% to 60% in order to be as consistent with the European Union Directive on wastewater treatment. In this way we preserved the Adriatic, but also provided a basic resource for coastal development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31500	Thank you. We move to an individual debate and the first to sign up for the distinguished representative Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31501	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The awareness of sea pollution by land-based wastewater has fuelled a number of projects and programmes to control and protect the sea at the level of world and domestic institutions. The Adriatic pollution monitoring programme is an integral part of the Protocol on the protection of the Mediterranean Sea against pollution from the mainland. The Protocol is an integral part of an action plan implementing the Barcelona Convention on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea. This programme is established in the Republic of Croatia in 1994, and is implemented by the State Water Administration in cooperation with the State Environmental Protection Administration. '95. in the year Croatia is a signator of the Barcelona Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment and the Coastal Area of the Mediterranean and since then the quality of wastewaters released into the sea has been examined. The project protection against water pollution in the coastal area or "Adriatic project" is a multi-year project launched by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with Croatian waters. The works relate to the reconstruction and expansion of the sewerage network, meaning main collectors, tunnels, submarine pipelines, pumping stations. Refurbishment and expansion of existing wastewater treatment plants and marine discharges. All works are technically rational, socially and economically justified, and acceptable from the site of environmental protection. On 2 July 2004, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in Zadar concluded a 40m-euro loan for the first phase of the project. So the "Adriatic Project" is conducted in three phases over ten years, and the first phase of 4 years is under way while the second and third phases of "Adriatic Project" should last for 3 years. Zadar is one of the largest and most active locations within the "Adriatic Project", and during 2009, further development of urban sewerage is planned, as well as construction of gas stations and purifiers. The disposal of waste water in Zadar is systematically improved, and the construction of 86 million kuna worth of waste water treatment plant "Centar". The device works are at the end and are currently under investigation of the plant before it is put into test with fecal water. Biograd, along with the entire Biograd Riviera, was a major construction site, and the most significant works related to the laying of sewers along the city's waterfront. These pipes of waste water from all five current discharges are being rerouted to one pump station. It is currently under construction of wastewater treatment plants and sub-sea discharges. By summer 2009, a secondary sewerage network in Pakostane should be fully built, and the secondary network in Draga should be built. Croatian Finance Minister Mr. Schuker and Head of the World Bank Office in Croatia signed a 60m-euro loan agreement on 6 February 2009. This contract allows for the realization of the second phase of "Adriatic Project". The project means protecting against water pollution in the coastal area, and the World Bank loan represents half the total amount of the second phase. The remaining amount, as during the first phase, will be financed from the budget of the Republic of Croatia, means from the resources of Croatian waters, i.e. from the compensation for water protection, and from the unit of local self-government and municipal societies through a dedicated increase in the cost of draining and treatment of waste water. During the second phase of the "Adriatic Project" it will seek to improve wastewater management services in 33 coastal cities and municipalities where only half of the population currently has an appropriate sewage system and only 16% of waste water is cleaned. Cres, Mali Lošinj, Poreč, Rab, Murter, Nin, Privlaka, Sukosan, Bibinje, Vodice, Hvar, Supetar and Brac will be among the locations where the project is expected to be implemented soon, while for the National Park "Mljet", Župu Dubrovačka, Primošten, Metković, Vela Luka, Crikvenica, Rovinj, Pula north and Medulin Mr. Cain, is working fast to prepare the projects. By the end of 2009, in the first phase of the "Adriatic Project", systems will be built for the collection of wastewater treatment and disposal in 11 coastal cities, including more than a deforestation system, 40 gas stations and 7 wastewater treatment plants that will benefit some 330 thousand inhabitants. The number of people who will be able to join the drain system in the area covered by the project will grow from 38% to 65% and the percentage of purified waste water will rise from 8% to 50%. According to estimates, the second phase of the Adriatic project will cover an additional 210 thousand inhabitants and by building all planned facilities of the connected population on sewer systems will increase to 76%. I also think it is important to stress that the project will have the same credit conditions as for the first stage and that, that the maturity term means 15 years, i.e. 5 years, start and 10 years is just a maturity. Here, for all the above, I will support the adoption of this law and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31502	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It is up to the honourable representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31503	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I would actually like to emphasise, not repeating my colleague Box and previous so, colleagues and colleagues who have discussed it primarily from the point of view, therefore, of the programme itself that, under this first regional programme. And it is as such primarily indicative of the development of certain areas. It contains certain provisions, i.e. very important for these areas, regardless of whether we are talking about Istria, whether we are talking about Zadar County, Sibenik, Split, Dubrovnik, etc., and perhaps relevant three components. The first in my personal court is environmental protection, which is the first component that is covered by this project, was equally covered by the first phase and now with this second phase. In second place, we cannot drop any sign of all these areas, let's also call it the component of one economic development, and it primarily refers to tourism and tourism development in these areas. In addition to it, it is equally important to emphasize by focusing on the component we could call, let's call it social because it is actually the life of the population in that area with one, therefore, building all these, therefore, facilities and protecting the environment and the economy will clearly improve the life of the population in that area, which is very important. Therefore, it is a single sustainable development, a sustainable development policy that we are leading in these areas. And in this respect, I would certainly like to point out at the very beginning that not only is the project concerned, therefore, the second phase that the Ministry of Regional Development, the forest and water economies that are launching all these projects should also be praised. For one very important reason it is that not only in this coastal area is therefore, it talks about disposal and protection and so on all those components that I mentioned but now within, therefore, regional development, are included along the coastal area and coastal areas. So I'm talking specifically about the area where I come from, so from the Dalmatian mountainous area where I can confirm why I'm talking about commending the ministry, because specifically here in my Vrgorec, which is up in the mountainous and mountainous area, you just cross Biokovo Makarska from one side, we're on the other. Also in the cooperation of the Ministry of Water Economy and Croatian Waters, last year the most modern purifier was completed was therefore worth 15 million kuna, which will solve the problem therefore, the dangers that are present in these areas and not only on the coast, and these are primarily old systems, the sewerage that I am not talking about black pits as eco bombs that have been deployed throughout the area, so, coast. But here are these projects in this particular function to get us out of this problem. What should certainly be pointed out by me here when it comes to the first stage and what I would personally like to point out is that in the area of the county from which I come, or the electoral unit we have now had three projects in the first phase of which is, in particular, in terms of economic development and the protection of the environment clearly and the need for the population and social component of the sub-project Makarska, and this is a purification device fully realised in terms of 4.5, therefore, millions of kuna. Thus, and here it was taken care of what is equally important for Makarska, not just the number of people who reside during the year but the equivalent of the population, so when we have in the summer period in this area 50 thousand or more, more so, people who serve these needs. So, in this respect, it should certainly be encouraged that in this second phase, as far as we can see, we have some 20, 30 subprojects that are in preparation and realization, and I must say that I personally spoke to the chiefs and other municipalities of the Macarian coast, who are willing to, therefore, engage and continue through these projects to solve their problems because we know what is the signification, just before I said, that is, our Adriatic and at all, of what is coming to the Adriatic Sea, the Adriatic Sea, and also to that area from the mainland, that is, the mainland. Because in this section we should say that landwaters are included, not only so, what we have, we have, therefore, on the sea. The second sub-project that is very important for our county is achieved and is still being realized in the area of Omis and the Long War and is third in Opuzen. And as far as I can tell from this second part in any case, three other municipalities of Split-Dalmatia County are again directly involved, namely Hvar, Supetar and Bol, with significant amounts of projects. And in any case, there will be one incentive and others to understand what the signification of these projects is. Because we still have in our area of municipalities, i.e. local self-government units, who do not know how many of these projects, that is, environmental protection and protection, that is, a system that is complete can bring improvements to the lives of the population. Here are a few of these, therefore, reasons the predecessors spoke of, for sure, that this project should be supported. But not only for this reason but also for being, this is primarily about a favourable, favourable credit therefore, the relationship between therefore, the international bank, or us on the other hand, which can be seen through the way it will be realized in the first stage and second, which is five years, so it starts, or 10 years, paying off and only the participation of local self-government units clearly speaks of a link to one that is necessary in all of this. So also because of the benefits of the loan itself, clearly and the way back, but also at the end of the basic goal that we all want to achieve in terms of infrastructure development, but also primarily sustainability of economic development, primarily tourism, environmental protection and social components, I support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31504	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31505	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I'll do it real quick. I'm just gonna remind you that this loan, like the last one, didn't come by itself. Only in the Zadar County area did we use the World Bank's gift, meaning county headship because I was then an employee of the county headship, we used a $1m gift from the World Bank to create a vision of the development of Zadar County. I just want to remind you that this didn't fall out of the sky and that it's not what my colleague Cain says, the way someone's good with someone. So in 2000, Zadar County together with Sibenik-Kninska developed a vision of the development of Zadar County. A very important place in that vision was these very projects. We knew what our development was based on, it's exactly protecting the sea and the marine environment. And this particular vision defined the meanings and objectives and this was the protection of the environment among the priorities. Then we also held our first talks with representatives of the World Bank, but then our project documentation was in the beginning. We had idea projects, but then we worked them out for a long time and coordinated them according to what was required to borrow the World Bank for the first loan. But after that vision, meaning the development of Zadar County, we have created a Regional Operational Programme of Zadar County for a short period of time in which they are again, so we have confirmed those priorities and they are defined as measures. This Regional Operational Programme was the basis for the withdrawal of the European Union funds, as well as our funds, as well as talks and contracts with representatives of Croatian Waters and Ministrys. So it was all prepared documentation so we could work at all. But behind it is both patience and hardworking chiefs and mayors of our municipalities who have been patiently and with as much resources as they have invested in making project documentation and preparing themselves, because we assured them that there are resources when they have completed project documentation. Of course it took a long time, but we've prepared good projects and the results are visible. We are not by chance the region, nor the Adriatic by chance the most attractive, is attractive precisely because it is clean, which is preserved as it should be. In the first stage, significant projects were withdrawn, so they went to the territory of Zadar, Biograd, Pakostane and St. Philip Jacob. However, from this first stage of the loan, many of our units of local self-government, such as through Pag, Povljana, Kukljica, Kali, who are also aware of how much protection they need to protect this area, have invested significant resources precisely in these projects. For the second phase, projects were also prepared, and here they are the subject of this World Bank loan, which is Bibinje, Sukosan, Panin, Privlaka and Vir and others. The role of Zadar County or the headship was to coordinate the production of project documentation and the implementation of these projects. We dared each year from what was nominated to determine what our priorities were based precisely on those development projects that I had talked about before and with concrete proposals went to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and therefore our effects are so good. All the requirements of the local and regional self-government units, the county headship and the Government of the Republic of Croatia are in line. Here are all these programs that are implemented through this first component or first loan and those that will go, and the experience gained and in preparing these projects will certainly serve us for a good realization of these. I have no doubt that this very significant and large component will be successfully realized, and that this basic coastal development resource will be passed on to new generations as we have found it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31506	Thank you. We have one replica. Honorable representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31507	My dear lady, any documentation you own in Zadar wouldn't be worth anything to you if you didn't have Minister Calmete at the head of the most profitable ministry and HDZ had no such interest in Zadar for years. Don't think the other environments don't have those programming plans either. But you see, one County of Istria which foreign currency liquidity in Croatia in 2008 or '09. Much more contributions than Croatia has contributed to ex Yugoslavia. He doesn't actually get anything. This year, with this rebalance, only 66 million kuna. Not that we don't win, but nothing, absolutely nothing comes back, but it shows such primitiveism and barbarism that even the General Hospital in Pula takes off some 7.5 million kunas. The elementary school "Veli vrh" was burned and normally nothing from the state budget can be expected to start construction and a very important educational institution in Istria County. It's clear to me that it's part of the vote purchase. It's clear to me that as long as this government is, it will work that way. But for God's sake, you won't forever.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31508	Your Honor, you first spoke out of the question and beyond what the distinguished representative said because it's not about the state budget, but it's about what means are being talked about here. ... And secondly, you didn't mention a single moment... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You can't pollemize, now listen up. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And you didn't make any concrete examples of what this was a concrete project that was set up, which you prepared, which was not solved. None. Thank you very much. Replica's reply, the esteemed representative Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31509	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. How Mr. Cain just won't listen. I wanted to set as a good example and recipe for others, but you didn't want to hear it. I have to say here we're really proud of our minister, but we also know what we want to do and we made it go away. Neither the Minister nor the Government could speak out loud. Excuse me, but do you think the World Bank program would go to the Minister's word on the project documentation wasn't completely finished? [[/Intruder: I'm sure.]] [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31510	Turn yourself on!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31511	And we're proud, so once again, we're proud of our minister, we know what we want, we've done everything we can to make this happen, and the goal of this project is to protect one part of the Adriatic with what you too, Mr. Cain, should be proud.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31512	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. Dear Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31513	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Of course, I would like to start by saying that we will certainly support this bill before us, so the loan agreement for the Water Protection Project in the coastal area, as already pointed out here, is the second phase of 60m euros by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and of course, equal to that amount of funding to be provided in the state budgets of the Republic of Croatia in the coming period from this year, so from 6 June 2009 to 2014. So, the overall value of this phase, the second phase is 120m euros, which speaks enough about the size of the funds, but also about the needs of Croatian municipalities and cities that are actually struggling with this problem of sea pollution and actually environmental pollution at the same time. What is important to me personally is that one of the cities among these 11 that participated in the first phase that was worth 80 million euros, so half of the funds were provided by the International Bank, and the other half of the Republic of Croatia is also the town of Opuzen, and in this second phase there is expected documentation and implementation of projects both in Opuzen and in Metković and in Vela Luka and in Župa Dubrovnik and in the National Park Mljet. Therefore, it is 5 projects that will really mean a significant improvement in environmental protection and the problem of waste water, i.e. sewage systems. As important as this is for our county, I think it says enough that over 90% of the economy in southern Croatia and in Dubrovnik-Neretva County is securely connected directly to the strongest branch, which is tourism. So most of what's done in that county is tourism. And tourism has no connection to a clean environment, no clean sea. Where will the tourists come, if not actually on, I can say the most beautiful part of the Croatian coast when we talk about the Elafiti about Mljet, Lastovo, Korčula, when we talk about Dubrovnik, where will it come if it will not be clean sea? So, apart from the cultural heritage of course, the historical heritage which is extremely rich, which is also the main bait of all those who come to the southern part of Croatia. Of course, there is first and foremost a clean sea and a nature that is truly of invaluable value. So I'm glad that in this second phase, I say there will be a realisation of the new five projects listed here by the secretary of state, and I would say something else that is important. So these are not the only projects dealing with this topic, so environmental protection and wastewater disposal because the Ministry of Seas, led by Minister Kalmeta, is very much taking care of the southern Croatian county, of Dubrovnik-Neretva County. So I'm just going to list projects that are also related to environmental protection and wastewater disposal, which is financed from the ministry. It's about 10 projects. So, the projects in Vela Luka, Blato, Lumbarda, Orebić, Trpnje, Stone, Dubrovnik coast, Župi Dubrovnik, Obuzen and Zaton, so the City of Dubrovnik, part of Dubrovnik, is the town of Zaton. And as far as I know, the City of Dubrovnik has prepared several projects that are related to its nearest area, along with Orošac, Elafite and Rijeka Dubrovnik. I hope that these projects will also be financed, but the fact that at this moment there are 10 projects from the Ministry of the Sea, from your ministry, to prepare the next five projects and that you will actually include two more projects with the donor. It is in Metkovic and Obuzen, and this gift is not small, it is $6 million and $400,000 enough to say how much the requirements of the local self-government unit are and how much nothing in the previous, let's say 50, 60 years has not worked on this issue, which is actually one of the fundamental issues of sustainable development of the Republic of Croatia. Because in all these municipalities and cities, you've never had that problem solved before. It is a fundamental infrastructure without which it is impossible to actually enter quality projects and without which it is impossible to achieve European standards, what we seek. When we talk about approaching the European Union, we are talking first of all about wanting for Croatian citizens European standards. And when we speak in this area, it is especially important to point out that in this area we still have a great deal of work to do, but fortunately this government is very much thinking about these needs and therefore this funding, which is ultimately worth 280m euros, is of great importance for the development of all these units of local self-government, and in fact of great importance for the Republic of Croatia. By the way, of course, it is very important that the institutions involved in these activities are also able to manage properly and operate in a proper way to ensure the protection of the environment and the functioning of these systems, therefore it is part of the whole story, and therefore that part is also financed by the operational institutions from the ministry to the utility companies, therefore the companies that will manage these systems and in this sense, and this is also important and significant. And I am therefore surprised by the various doubts expressed here by the representative of the SDP club, as well as by Mr Cain who is no longer present after saying what does not stand, and I am surprised that some doubts about the possible funds being allocated according to some political criteria. It could be seen precisely from a state secretary in which cities and municipalities were involved in the first stage and will see that it is the entire coast of the Republic of Croatia. In the second stage you will also be able to see that they are funded, here I will say specifically in Dubrovnik-Neretva County you have National Park Mljet, there is not HDZ in power, you have Vela Luka, there is no HDZ in power, you have and Metkovic there is not HDZ in power. Therefore, what are the political criteria when you are talking about these political criteria. It is simply completely inappropriate, declassified and, on the other hand, the whole story is being dragged into the International Bank. Do you doubt that the International Bank for Development and Reconstruction is working on these principles on which you think it works? Why do you doubt the Republic of Croatia when you see from these examples that it really is not about any political criteria, but only about the criteria that have been discussed here, which is that there must be complete documentation, that the project must be properly reported and the project supervised by experts from the International Bank for Development and Reconstruction. I would say in the end that it is extremely important that, ultimately, when all these projects are implemented and phase 2 and 3 as my colleague said, it is about 76% of the coastal population that will be included in these systems that will mean improvements, which does not mean that we must not forget the rest of it, because we must be 100 percent when we talk about wastewater disposal, we must be 100% involved in this system and we must work all together on this, and primarily local self-government units there must produce the necessary documentation to ensure that their citizens get this basic infrastructure facility, or to join a sewer system that will be properly arranged and managed. Therefore, once again support for this extremely important project for the Republic of Croatia in an extremely important law in an extremely important loan agreement with the International Bank. But let us not forget, the municipalities and states of the Republic of Croatia participate in this part through their budgets and let us not forget that it is extremely favourable funds, in particular the payment of these funds that we are talking about today that will be monitored by 2014. It doesn't really start until after the five-year Greis period, until the end of 2023. So it's about extremely favourable conditions and I'm sure this will be used. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31514	Thank you. We have three replicas. First is the distinguished representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31515	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Matušić, I agree with you when you said this project is important for the Republic of Croatia, for financing and for the natural municipal development and every other and economic development in Croatia. I would also like to say, and that is why I reported that Croatia's waters are co-financed by the construction of water supply in Brezovica, where I come from, and right now, two parts of the water supply are being made. They're highway lines in our area. Although we are the city of Zagreb, which is very difficult because as colleague Cain says, I would not agree to watch where anyone is in power, which political option, no. Here, in the town of Zagreb, SDP has been in power for 10 years but the Ministry of Regional Development through Croatian Waters and in that part co-finances water supply and disposal. Therefore, I do not agree with that, but it is true, on the other hand, it comes that actually these local units are very difficult to provide just project documentation as was the case with Brezovic because we have waited for many years to get the project from the city of Zagreb. Perhaps that was the reason the HDZ has held power in this area since the 1990s. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31516	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31517	Thank you, colleagues. After yesterday's political debate on rebalancing, I think the time has come to talk about concrete results when it comes to some government, and then we can certainly say that unfortunately this government has been waiting to address fundamental issues such as water supply. We still have places today that don't have proper water supplies... Here I know from the Dubrovnik coast that water supply is now being solved, where the second phase is now being done, where the basic water supply system in our county is being solved, such as the MPKLM, so from Neretva via Pelješac, Korčula, Lastova to Mljet. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these are all areas that, unfortunately, still do not have this system in the 21st century and which had to welcome this government, or the government of the Croatian Democratic Community in late 2003, to begin solving these problems. Then we can talk about concrete projects, about what this government really does for people everywhere in Croatia, about how to improve their standard and how to improve everyday life. Can we imagine life without water, without basic infrastructure facilities, without sewers? What kind of life is that? Unfortunately, we still have those environments to help and finish these projects as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31518	Thank you. We have another replica, the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31519	Dear fellow Matusic. I didn't want to go with the correction of an incorrect quote so I could give you the opportunity to answer me for not meeting very often with your representatives and representatives from HDZ. I just wanted to remind you that over the past 50 years, something has been done and I would remind you here of the Eco Kaštelan Bay project, which is the largest infrastructure project in terms of the sewage system and wastewater treatment that has ever been implemented in the coastal area. And as for the preparation of the "Adriatic" project, I would remind you here that the preparation of the "Adriatic" project took place shortly before the signing of the contract, which was in 2004, which means that the coalition government has just moved and made it possible for such a project to be realised. And as for ours, I somehow realized that you somehow suggested to me that I said that I thought that I thought that the SDP club considered this project to be some kind of corruption or something. That wasn't just true. I said, however, that we welcome this project because, like all other international contracts, it has anti-corruption provisions which will, of course, allow so that there are no such doubts about the corruption elements of this project at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31520	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31521	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I didn't say nothing was done, but if we started with 16%, if we got to that threshold by 2004, then what did you do? I agree that the project you were talking about in Kašteli is extremely important and significant and excellent to be done. But very little has been done by then, extremely little. If, thanks to these programs now implemented by this government, we will come with 16% of the population covered by the sewer system and the drainage of waste water up to 76, then we will indeed do a lot of work through this project. And that's where I give credit to anyone who's done anything. But unfortunately, the basics were waiting for HDZ's government in 2003, basics. Water supply projects. Well, we can't let, I say again in the 21st century not to worry about it and to ignore people who live without water supply. That's a fundamental question. The availability of water is even guaranteed by the Constitution. So something that is fundamentally human right is right to water and to clean water supply. As far as this second one is concerned, I am glad that you did not question this law and that you did not actually politicise in the way in which your colleague Cain had politicised when he made remarks about the fact that, by political criteria, funds were allocated because it really is not, so in that sense, I am glad that the SDP is also thinking in this way, but the concern of all of us must be that these fundamental infrastructure rules that we have talked about in the Croatian state because it is the only way we can deal with competition tomorrow in the European Union. Only in such a way can we have sustainable development, only then can we have a real economy. I don't agree with what my colleague Cain said earlier about this re-indulgation of the coast, I think it's something that poses a danger.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31522	Thank you. And we have a third replica of Honorary Representative Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31523	Dear fellow Matušić is obviously here that counterpart Cain has shown personality. Of course, every man here discusses with a high dose and brings in that personality, but I will be here for freedom regardless of what I might be exposed here and warned about. There's still a little egoism here. If we come from electoral units not only are we citizens' representatives in these constituencies, we are still citizens' representatives throughout Croatia. Although these funds for the very purpose of the program will not be used in my Slavonia, I am pleased by every spent and realized kuna. It would be a problem if it wasn't realized. But there are other things to think about. So the mayor of Istria's County Mr. Jakovcic greatly praised the partnership relationship and co-operation with the government of the Republic of Croatia under the mandate of Dr. Sanader. So the Croatian government together with its county has one joint tourist project "Brian Riviera" to boost the competitiveness of Croatian tourism, and I can only say that I am glad that there are other thoughts that come from Istria, not just this closely viewed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31524	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31525	Well, I agree with you fellows completely. And I am glad that you are glad that these infrastructure facilities are being built on the coast and that this will mean improving the citizens of the life of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia just as I am glad that this part of the highway is now ending through Slavonia when we speak from the Hungarian border to Bosnia and Herzegovina and that the main highway route towards Lipovljani is actually completed, as I am pleased that the Sava-Dunav channel will be built. I'm just as glad. But I'm worried about when we say my colleague Kai's exclusively, unfortunately he's gone, so I won't talk too much about him, but exclusively his own political perspective is talking about projects in the Republic of Croatia by comparing it with Istria in the sense that nothing is realised there. That's not true. Here, you yourself said that Mr. Jakovcic points out these good examples of cooperation with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but it should be said that much of the funding of the state budget relates to salaries and pensions. We could see that from yesterday's debate. So, of course, a part of these funds and a large part of these funds depend on how many citizens there are working, how many pensions they receive and how many government services we have there to receive these salaries, so they use absolutely normal as all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia's state budget. So it's quite inappropriate to say that these funds are small or I don't know how much he said 60 million kunas. But I'd say something else. It is important that each part of Croatia develops evenly. Therefore, the Peljesac Bridge is as important as the important infrastructure highway in Slavonia, such as the important Sava-Dunav channel, such as important projects in Zagreb, Varazdin and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31526	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debate. Dear representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31527	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I must also say that I am very happy with what we have in front of us the proposal for this law, which defines in fact the loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is actually a programme that is intended to be implemented in three stages, and the total cost is 280m euros. Finally, its ultimate purpose is to improve the provision of efficient and sustainable disposal and treatment of waste water, especially in the coastal area in cooperation, and to reduce the burden on nutrients. The signed loan contract, here we heard, but it is not a waste once again signed from the beginning of February this year. It actually refers to a second phase of 60m euros in total, it returns after a start of 5 years from 10 years and from 2014 to 2023 by a local self-government and Croatian water unit. These funds will be spent on the construction and recovery and expansion of the drain system, as well as on institutional strengthening of units of local self-government and Croatian waters, but also on what is particularly important monitoring of the quality of seawater. What is here earlier in the debate is a single prominent colleague of Nevenka Marinović, but I will also say as an example of good practice is exactly the area of my county, i.e. the town of Sibenik, which in its administrative and administrative structure solved the treatment of waste water that cost about 200 million kuna. And of course the quality of the life of my fellow citizens that I'm going to say here and this, when they're walking on the waterfront, they really admire the crystal clear and fragrant sea, but the wastewater treatment system, of course, should continue to build on the fact that the town of Sibenik still has the oldest water supply in Croatia. It was founded by respected colleagues and colleagues in 1879, it is also the longest pipeline in Croatia with the largest number of households connected to drinking water. Of course, this does not mean that all households are covered with drinking water, so the city also made a commitment at the most recent time to build a pipeline for example for the Grebašnica upper, rid the citizens also of the drinking water connection in Boraja, and bring to an end the water supply system of the inhabited Sibenik islands. It is therefore necessary that other units of local self-government in the area, i.e. Sibenik-Knin builds a wastewater treatment system, which is ultimately the result of environmental protection, reduction of water loss in the water, also clean sea, but ladies and gentlemen also the Krka River with its tributary Čikolo and meeting important preconditions for further development of tourism. The municipalities that are already heading in this direction are Rogoznica, it is already in full construction and in preparation are the municipalities of Murter, Kornati, Tisno and Pirovac and together the town of Vodice and the municipality of Tribunj, the municipality of Bilica, and Drniš and Knin along the river Krka and the tributaries of Čikola. Of course this really, this bill of law makes me very happy and that I will support its adoption in an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31528	Thank you. And now we have five replicas. First, she is a respected representative of Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31529	Thank you, Vice President. Here I agree in many ways with my colleague Ned, but I wanted to point out that the funds of the first phase have been fully used, which is very significant, are 100% used and that is good and should be called for this second one, meaning after signing this agreement all of them and these proposed but and all of those at the initial stage, at a certain stage of preparing the documentation, to do so, to run for this programme their projects because the sooner they are realised, this is the loan, so it's important to withdraw the funds as soon as possible because then the effects are much faster and much more visible. And another thing, the importance of these funds, and these funds are in it because they represent essentially one core with which one can begin to design and a larger project not only small. This is one core of funds to which the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the units of local self-government, the Regional Development Fund of the Republic of Croatia and European funds and the effects of such projects and this loan are much greater when they are well designed. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31530	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31531	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, and here I am pleased to see you really thinking about your colleague Nevenka, because you have also worked very operationally on the adoption of a regional operational programme, of course that here again the longest pipeline in Croatia, the oldest water pipeline, as well as a certain wastewater purifier, will be able to, therefore, definitely include additional spending of 60 within, the second phase of 60m euros, and in this case also the city of Sibenik, as well as the local self-government unit, along with Croatian waters, will take on the burden of responsibility and, in fact, that institutional capacitation will develop further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31532	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31533	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely, the replica is more in terms of correction and allegation but I took the opportunity to give my colleague, the oldest water line she spoke of in Sibenik, certainly not the oldest. We in Dubrovnik probably have one of the oldest operating water lines since it was built to this day. So that's, it's about a water line that was built back in 1438. On 2 June 1436, therefore, two years before the great Council of the Dubrovnik Republic decided on the construction of that waterway. So, I think we can only be proud of ourselves, of course, of the people who were before us creating the cultural heritage of the city of Dubrovnik, who were thinking about water supply in the middle of the 15th century when it was done exclusively, without, of course, the technologies that are now known and used today, and by the free fall from the Forest of Dubrovnik, they brought water to Onofrey's fountain in Dubrovnik, which still works today. So, since 1438, when that water line was finished, it has been functioning today and tourists and citizens of the city of Dubrovnik can drink that water on the Onofrey fountain. And I think that soon they will arrange the promenade right up to the spring, so even the citizens and tourists, the citizens of Dubrovnik, will be able to actually enjoy this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31534	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31535	Thank you very much. Here's my dear colleague Frane, I really have no intention of competing, in fact I agree with my thinking we can be proud of our not only cultural historical heritage as many other cities have besides Dubrovnik and Sibenik. In fact, here we also witness the fact that total as a people, because our cities are the oldest originally Croatian we witness both the facts and the intention to constantly raise the quality of life to the ultimate and economic recovery and the lives of all our cities mostly those by the sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31536	Okay. And now we have a replica, the esteemed representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31537	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I'm very pleased to have you impose on the beauty of Dubrovnik. And that's why I was thinking about replicating what Frano was replicating, but I have another replica, and that's why, my colleague Neda was talking about how much the local community should actually participate in these projects. However, I would now be rubbing this idyll with some data in Dubrovnik. Namely, the very infrastructure within the city is very outdated and requires a fundamental reconstruction, especially the part with... The coast where the cracks and interruptions in supply often occur. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This must be addressed through a long-term plan to replace long-term pipes in a joint road reconstruction project and other infrastructures actually perform in this way. It also mentioned the purity of water, however, the purity of the water we drink could be disrupted by pollution from the Grabovic trash dump located in the water-protected area of the Omble River. Then a large part of the household is not connected to this system and uses septic caves, even about 25%, which is certainly inadmissible for a city like Dubrovnik with which we admire ourselves. The example is Lapad, which is the heart of a tourist town, the street around the post office Frano we know about and according to the school in Glavica do not have a solution to the sewer system and the storm drain system, that we do not talk about the out-of-town area there is no sewer system at all, which will in particular be a major problem when water infrastructure and water consumption are brought into those areas. Therefore, I hope that in Dubrovnik as soon as possible, this very large infrastructure problem will be resolved as soon as possible, and that the city of Dubrovnik will also come to a point of purification in three phases, both mechanical and biological, or chemical purification, and that just as the SDP in this case has now, as it has been known to approach this project, the Adriatic, too, will find a solution to the major infrastructure problems in our city of Dubrovnik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31538	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31539	Well, here's Mrs. Bonačić, colleague Bonačić, in fact, I happen to know that Dubrovnik has actually solved this team of people headed by Mayor Ms. Shuic has solved exactly the historical core of the city of Sibenik, just as we, in Dubrovnik, are sorry, I apologize, just as we are in Sibenik. Here is also the ongoing meeting on the main purifier, also in the historical core that connects definitely two new city districts that were created in the town of Sibenik in which young people will be able to buy their apartments. So here we go, moving on. I know by chance, maybe Mr. Franco won't fix me now, and Grabovica... That's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So here's what we're doing, and hopefully, here we go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31540	Thank you. So it doesn't turn out that only in Dalmatia is the water flowing, and we've been running on the poor since the globes of the earth. ... Replica, distinguished representative Stjepan Kundić. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31541	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. It's a very inspiring subject. I'm going to say something about a flat Turopoly that you know lies thousands, thousands of cc's of water, and people in that flat Turopoly are thirsty. What are they thirsty for? The pre-election campaign four years ago of the Croatian Democratic Community was to bring water to each house, into the flat Turopolje, the Vukomerska Gorica. That's the first thing. It's another thing. In that program, we had a treatment of the purifier. But as you know, four years ago we went through the way we did. This current government, a colleague mentioned the SDP, I don't know what context, nothing in Velika Gorica has done about it. I think that really besides the two ministers who had me in the government, because it was about protectionism, it was about Mr Calmeta, not a request in the direction of our two ministers did not go from the current government in terms of improving and resolving the quality of the situation. So, that's amazing because Minister Schucker doesn't sleep in the Great Gorica, he lives for the Great Gorica, but thank God he's close on May 17th, and I think we're going to solve these current problems quickly.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31542	Thank you. We've got one breach from the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31543	Your Honor, Vice President. Article 209 was injured as counterpart Kundic did not hold the topic of this debate and in principle did not replicate his HDZ colleague's speech at all, so I think you should warn him in this regard.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31544	I agree with you, but also I would have to warn the distinguished representative Bonačić and others who also answered the line and said what they found at that point in time for the same. Still, they tap in a little bit on the subject and then talk about what they're talking about. Because first of all, starting a replica, I agree with you, but the fact itself is not a replica. And I agree, but then we have to be objective to everyone like that. We have a reply to the replica now. Dear representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31545	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, Mr. Kundić, it is no longer possible to correct the incorrect allegations, but I will say in response to your replica that it is precisely my area of the Sibenik-Knin County County that is the richest springs of drinking water. Mr. Secretary of State, please convey your gratitude to your minister, our Mr. Cobankovic, who supported me this year and last year at the 2nd national consultation on drinking water sources. This year, in September, I will reorganize such a national consultation because it is again a contribution to this topic that we are talking about today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31546	Thank you. We have a replica and it's the last one. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31547	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ma co-worker Klaric, you encouraged me to the replica by mentioning the protection of your rivers, not only the coast but also the river, although I support everything that was obtained by this agreement in the coast. Because we only have to remember when we come in the summer and we see that we don't have wastewater purifiers, that sometimes sewerage swims along our shores, then we remember that we should have it, and that's why I don't agree that there are doubts about the criteria. We need to protect our seas. I come from the continental part of Croatia and I agree with our vice president when he said they're running forever. We are also running in Sisak, and we are also grateful, Mr. Secretary of State, that we have indeed, but by the great work of dear fellow local community, managed to prepare an application for the IPA, for one great water purifier in the City of Sisak, which is the basis for all. And imagine, this is where we all started talking about the oldest sewers. Well, one part of the mammal's sewer, you know what time it comes from? Since the time of the old Roman ancient Sistion and really used. Unfortunately, it's still in use. I hope that with this very program, that we will fully clean up and arrange our entire sewerage because it is necessary. So I think, colleague Klaric, that you have well pointed out that it is necessary and you have just pointed out as the mayor of Sibenik, that it is necessary exclusively, but only to encourage the local community to start caring for its own environmental protection in terms of not only air, water, even land. Therefore, I think we should support all of these and we should not share through these discussions on those who encourage it, on those parts and on those parts of Croatia who need it and who do not need it. He needs everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31548	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31549	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Ivanka, thank you very much for hearing that we must protect ourselves in addition to the protection of the sea and the coasts, because they are, especially when I am, here I will say again when I speak of the Krka River then definitely the Krka River bears the title of beauty. And so here's all it includes with the national park is what will definitely oblige the local self-government unit to protect the river itself and its environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31550	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It's the honorary representative Jerko Roshin's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31551	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Secretary of State. Somehow, the competitive spirit has gone into this topic, so I have to start it with one disagreement, at least with my colleague Fran Matusic, which is kind of proof in HDZ that everyone doesn't have to think the same thing, but when we think the same thing then we all think the same thing. You've heard of Diocletian's water supply in Split. My God, it's over 1700 years old and it's still in operation, it's that one time we do it and so, but it's been working for a long time, and I wouldn't want to keep it quiet and go to some of the wrong historical findings in textbooks later when it's something older than Dubrovnik. I think you all agree. There is an unusual phenomenon of this debate because the other day we are at a session of the Joint Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and Environmental Protection after discussion of the budget and one dissonant... /The speaker has been turned off and re-enabled./... the forest of the sea, forgive me. It was the Orcan south, so there was a bar left. It was interesting that after one such discussion about the budget that always caused some conflicting opinions and one dissonant tone in relation to the others came to the point of the agenda, so Mr. Secretary of State Zdravko Krmek presented to us a proposal for this Law on the acquisition of loans and when we all agreed with each other, so thank God a nice subject for which no one would object. And of course that's a nice topic when you look at it in your spirit, in your sense of one general benefit, and then it turns around and something good turns into something upside down, so I was reminded by my colleague Roncevic of that song, "What does it have in man ugly to get into other people's lives," so someone started talking about this topic exclusively with some of his narrow local, regional or party interest, which seems absurd to me because the topic of water protection is such a global topic, a general topic and should not be limited to Croatia because it really is not only the problem of Croatia, but the problem of Croatia's connection with others. We've known since childhood the story of "Put your finger in the sea, you're connected to the whole world." This is happening today and literally and I think that the discussion on this should only be in view of the problems of the coast of Croatia and the Adriatic in the context of everything that is happening on the Adriatic Sea in general, as well as in the Mediterranean and in general the world, for which we have valid reasons and what Croatia has been dealing with for a long time. Not only with the Castelan Gulf solution, which is an extraordinary project that will bring a lot of good, but also other things. Among other things, by working together in the Mediterranean's problems, by looking at it as a regional problem and colloquists that led to it. In any case, the issue of the Croatian Adriatic is not just about what we will allow ourselves in Croatia to happen and cause certain consequences. The problems of the Croatian Adriatic, especially in its northern part, are the problems affecting both Slovenia and Italy. Because let's say the Po River brings so many possible contaminants to the whole part that we can't directly influence. Stories that were about ballast waters are also very interesting as something that leads to pollution, which can lead to pollution of the sea, but it is a topic that comes out of our frames. One part if it happens in another country. We are witnessing an increase, i.e. the change of the submarines, in the sense of flora and fauna, especially some new invasive flora and fauna species which, you remember, you may recall the case in Starigrad, a brand-new cowboy grass that has changed and covered the bottom so there are solutions to how to solve it. Finding a solution again is not only a question of Croatian, but it is an international issue because some cases, some excesses occur elsewhere and simply appear certain types of flora and fauna that have lived for several years and then disappear because they have lost some natural conditions. And there are even changes to what we hold to be domestic creatures like the hedgehogs there are, so they're either gone or the stables that haven't been there for a while, etc. These changes occur as part of the rest. The fact is that a colleague of Cain’s discussed the subject exclusively in a narrow environment, showing a lack of interest in a general subject. I think that should be condemned because such a debate is simply not for the Croatian Parliament. Local interests must absolutely be presented in a way that protects them because we are representatives of 10th, 9th or I don't know which constituencies, but some topics exceed local interests and should not descend to that simple level. Tourism is certainly an economic activity that is very sensitive to the pollution of the sea, to the pollution of rivers and in the interest of this economy, if not in the interest of the environment for which we should all strive, we should very much care about what is happening in the interior, which in the river comes to the sea and which pollution brings into the sea itself, especially if we know that some species, at least fish grow, or live in waters that are mixed between bottled waters that are salty and sweet. I can say that this problem has been dealt with by a long Geological Institute at the University of Reading and has been its experience thanks to a great fan of Croatia who has been coming to Croatia since '59. In the course of the debate on pollution that industry brings us to the sea, because the issue of the Gulf of Kastela and the question of the Yugoslavs of the former, or the chemical industry, which is also the cement industry, which is both dust and other... several types of pollution, which has been significantly reduced today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why I don't believe anyone comes to mind that some of our basic natural values are once again ruined by re-industrization, as people used to call themselves from the village to come to the cities to leave the villages. Now, as far as that goes, I'd just like to point out that in terms of sewers and wells, we can't allow cases like those in Vir where each other's wells are mixed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31552	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31553	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's another example of internal democracy in HDZ. I don't agree with you colleagues that we shouldn't highlight these local examples. In fact, they are part of this mosaic of the overall project, and in that sense I think they should be highlighted. However, several truths have been made here regarding the Dubrovnik projects, and I would also like to correct them in some way and to say that as far as Dubrovnik is concerned, water supply and disposal are concerned. In particular,... The coast will be resolved as soon as the construction of the marina in Georgia is resolved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there's no point in doing a project today that you're going to have to do completely in a year or two. Furthermore, as far as Grabovica is concerned, it is certainly one of the most ordered municipal dumps in Croatia and it is publicly presented and publicly recognised. As far as water supply projects are concerned, Dubrovnik is ahead of it. Unfortunately, I'm going back to that thesis that we had to wait for after 50 gentlemen leaving in communism, we had to wait for HDZ's power to work on Elafite's water supply to make water supply for the upper villages in the Dubrovnik coast. And now all these projects are being prepared. It's a matter of fact, a recent contract has been signed for a sewerage system in Zaton. So that part is very important too. The Orasac and the Dubrovnik and Elafiti River are also in preparation. So all this means is that both local government and state government are taking care of both water supply and sewerage system. So I don't think this claim of yours stands out so these local projects don't stand out. I think we should point them out because they're part of this mosaic of the whole project we're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31554	Thank you. We have a breach of our rules of procedure, a distinguished representative of Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31555	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Rules of Procedure of Article 209 have been injured. Mr. Matušić did not replicate Tatjani Šimac Bonačić, Mr. Matušić replicated Mr. Rosin. Therefore, it is that the knower is in manipulations, or in corrections to false allegations, has the largest number in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31556	You didn't say an article, either. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31557	Don't shut me out because it doesn't make sense. At first, I told the vice president what article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31558	Okay. Thank you. I must tell you that as far as holding the topic, distinguished representative Neda Klaric did not mention in one word the subject you took as a replica of her for a thorough presentation. So let's be principled people. Speaking of which, if we go to the side a little bit and let the others go to the side. Thank you very much. Let's go to the reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31559	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I didn't say you shouldn't highlight local results. Local results and local projects, regional projects should absolutely be highlighted because they represent the results of our work and that should be known. I'm just saying this topic doesn't need to be considered locally because it has global implications. They're not just in one space, they're the consequences of another space. And they also cause problems in another space, but I thought that some things were generally known places to know how much in Dubrovnik has already been done. I don't know if you should say it so many times when the birds on the branch already know it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31560	And we end the debate with distinguished representative Bora Grubisic. He's the last reported individual. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31561	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. It's nice to see you today, I'd say the proud faces of these representatives that were singing from the Dalmatian and coastal shores of our Croatian Adriatic. It is nice to know that 280m euros or 2 billion kuna are invested in a project that is important for protecting against water pollution in the coastal area. The demagogue here and politically slightly and Byzantinely, wisely and transformedly talk about the evenness of Croatia's development and evenness in terms of protection against pollution and environmentality in total in the territory of Croatia. And we know it's not like that. That's why I'm surprised by the Slavonic parliamentary MPs who keep quiet here or like former Minister Rončević, so he says it's nice, etc. Yes, and I like to come to the clear Adriatic Sea and it is good that this is a project that will ensure the purity of the water of the Adriatic Sea and the disposal of all Adriatic cities. This is not about political differences or municipalities in which the SDP or HDZ is in power, this is a common matter. This is called a regional selfishness. I'm asking you here when the secretary of state is already writing and discussing that the Ministry of Regional Development has invested in a waterway highway in Slavonia, I'm talking in a water line. What about the drain? 75% of households in Slavonia are without draining, without sewers to say, and even in those areas where underground springs or wells of water are being activated right now for highway water. So, Sikirevci, Gundinci, Shamac, Kopanica, Berats, Stilts. Maybe I forgot someone. A pear. So, in these areas where underground water sources are almost perhaps the richest or like Turopolje, we have no drains, and then the waters of the coastal and all the others come into contact, so we and all of Slavonia will drink it. Furthermore, these days we have witnessed that the oil refinery in the Bosnian ship has negative effects on air and the Sava River pollution. How many million euros has it gone or how much is it planned to invest in this project? Will the Brodians and part of the County of the Ship-Posavina live in the smell or in the oil of the Sava River? It says here that 22% of the costs for this project will be borne by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When I calculated how much that was 56.5 million euros. When it's multiplied by 7.5 it turns out to be about 400 million kuna. This comes from the budget of the Republic of Croatia or from the funds of the Republic of Croatia. That's what taxpayers pay from Slavonia, too. They're part of it, too. Well, then we're talking about evenness. So when will it come to Slavonia? I know that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has so-called Adriatic orientation for the second time in the second term, the Adriatic orientation of the Republic of Croatia due to tourism, etc. Well, I guess Slavons are people, too, so I guess they need a drain. ... I didn't interrupt you, ma'am, while you were talking about Bandic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So here we talk all the time about who started Kaštelan Bay. Witnesses from ancient times. Was it SDP's project, or was it HDZ's. It doesn't matter. The important thing is that the project was made, the important thing is that it exists. It's good and I agree with that and that our coast has clean sea and everything. But, gentlemen, once again, make sure that Slavonia exists, that there is Baranja and Srem. When do we get our turn? Not so demagogue to use phrases... Mr. Matušić is talking about the road Osijek-Đakovo that doesn't start anywhere doesn't end anywhere. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] About which corridor 5C when there is no bridge on Savi, but there will be a bridge on Peljesac. But it can't be on Savi. Therefore, I am consensual, clear that no one can be against such a favourable loan given by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which includes clearly and Slavonian taxpayers with a good part, but is also being built in Dalmatia. So let's be solid once so that once it's such a big project in Slavonia for the sewerage of the entire Slavonia for the drain. So we'll be in the same amount of solidarity with that. And when will that be? That's what I'm asking myself, Mr. Secretary of State. Of course I am for the adoption of this law, but we can't keep our mouth shut like this anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31562	Thank you. And now we first have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First is Shimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31563	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. And I would correct the incorrect quote of my distinguished colleague Bora Grubisic, who said in his opening statement that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not investing in Slavonia. In particular, our colleague Grubisic comes from the same county, in Sikirevci we have signed a water contract for Eastern Slavonia, a water pipeline, where a parallel construction and water management system is being built. The value of these works is 396 million, the Davor waterworks value 120 million. And something very important that came a month ago and this is the IPA program for water protection and water management in the town of Slavonski Brod, which is a 20m-euro programme. I think this is evidence that it is also investing in Slavonia, in particular in Brod-Posavina County where you and I come from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31564	Thank you. ... What I can't see. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, you were talking about not investing in Slavonia. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's move on and have two replicas, so you'll be able to answer. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] First is the distinguished representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31565	So I have to admit, I'm surprised by my colleagues' rhetoric when it comes to regional selfishness. I was just pointing out when I mentioned projects that are happening in our county that I am extremely glad to say that important infrastructure facilities are also being built in Slavonia, as well as this water pipeline that my colleague was talking about, as well as the highway. But you can't tell a colleague that this highway doesn't start anywhere and ends nowhere. It is part of corridor 5C, it is part of a European corridor that will play its part. But it already plays its part within the Republic of Croatia. The citizens of the Republic of Croatia are already being used and have a better standard when we talk about highways and driving them. So, and I'm tired of being so simple, it's hard for me to answer your rhetoric when you mention the Peles Bridge. So I'm going to ask you just as I asked a colleague from the SDP yesterday what you'd do if you had to go from Dick Slavonia to Zagreb via another country, say through Hungary or through Bosnia and Herzegovina. How would you feel as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia to go from one part of the Republic of Croatia to another part of the Republic of Croatia through the territory of another country? Well, of course the Peljeka Bridge is a historic achievement, that is, it will be a historic achievement as soon as we finish it, but of course it is a historic project for the Republic of Croatia, because it connects the finally isolated part of the territory, the land territory of the Republic of Croatia with other parts with the queen of the country. So I think it's if nothing else is very important and should work it out. And of course we should be doing projects in Slavonia. That's no one's question. No one question that the Sava-Dunav channel needs to be built, that the water systems you were talking about should be built. Therefore, it will certainly certainly come to my turn. But the funds we're talking about here are means of purpose. It concerns the issue of sea quality, a coastal drain issue, so they cannot be used for other projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31566	Thank you. The reply to the replica, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31567	Mr. Matušić, you're obviously not from Slavonia and you don't really know when I said so metaphorically or from where it starts, so that road doesn't end anywhere. Those who are from there know it well, so I don't want to talk about it anymore. But when you speak through another country, then I feel as great in Neum, certainly as you do. Next, when you talk about the Peljesk Bridge. I didn't interrupt you, Mr. Matusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31568	Don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31569	Be polite. And when we talk about the Peljesk Bridge, then it's nobody against the Peljesk Bridge, it's just a question, and especially this Dutch company that bought 4 million square meters of land. She certainly isn't against it, and we're not against it in Slavonia, just in better times. This is how you cut your wages so you could build the Peljesk Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31570	Thank you. Please, we have another replica of Mr. Representative Berislav Roncevic. However, since there were objections, from now on strictly stick to the subject. Otherwise I'll be forced to take action. That's why I'm drawing the line now and I'm saying we have to stick to the subject. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31571	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will respect you personally, but I will simply replicate what is said in the debate of my colleagues. Unfortunately, it's said beyond theme. In the basic debate, it was said beyond the subject. It is not a criticism to you, but I simply find that this topic is a loan on the International Bank's funds for reconstruction and development and I point out in the coastal area. There can't be a debate on Slavonia's investment. We'll discuss these topics when we discuss some other reports. With your logic, colleagues Grubisic and us from Nasic can then if we look so closely regionally, but this is no longer a narrow regional, this is microregional, then we should be unhappy that the highway does not pass by my Nasic, neighboring Miholjc, and you pass it 5 meters from home. Because I know you live in Slavonski Brod. What are we talking about here? Here are the funds that are intended for the coastal area. The cost of these funds for what the person who has given funds has raised the question of the credibility of the Republic of Croatia. So people used to collect from their highway funds from Zagreb to Split, so they went to that Belgrade-Bar. So we are not going to let ourselves, as the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as representatives in this House, advocate for unintended spending of funds, these are the means for the coastal area, and I repeat, the only problem may be that we are not able to realise the resources in the way they are basically determined.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31572	Thank you. And a reply to the replica, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31573	Mr. Roncevic, when you speak, you said something about self-indulgence, etc., then it's the same thing, cut wages, and make a grand project, sometimes the Turks called it a hack, let them call it self-indulgence, now it's called the memory of the budget. And when you were talking about highways and Najice and about my narrow view of this locally, then I'm telling you this that the Government of the Republic of Croatia from my budget said I set out 56 million euros for it. And the budget of the Republic of Croatia forms and gives into it and the citizens of Slavonia, that's what I'm talking about. So that something may return to Slavonia and not to what you say, is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31574	Thank you. And then we ended up single. Does the Proposer want a word? Yeah. Dear Zdravko Krmek, State Secretary at the Ministry of Forestry and Water Economy and Regional Development, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31575	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I want to begin by thanking everyone for supporting this bill, and I would like to add a few short and information that is related to the debate, or the course of the debate. First of all, I want to say that this project means this loan, we, so the Croatian government, we're going to the realization, so all of these systems of disposal, or we're going to what's most important in keeping jobs. Why? Because it's extremely important that at these 550 million kunas that are realised at the first stage, it means that in the 100% amount to go on and these 900 million kunas are extremely important, so for our economy as well. Why? Because in the water economy sector exactly in this section according to the data that we have been working on somewhere around 11.5 thousand people, which is extremely important, and here this loan will continue to mean those activities that they have had so far, that is to say, to build these disposal systems. What I still want to add to the debate regarding the coastal, or continental part of the Republic of Croatia, I want to say that it is here in front of you, about a year ago there was also a project with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, etc. Inland water project. The project also builds a wastewater treatment system, I will now list in the area of Našica, Virovitica, Vukovar, Ogulin, Ilocka and in other areas means now in the candidacy. The total amount of loans is 105m euros. And what I want to say in particular is that there are much more favourable conditions here than there are in the coastal area. Let's say I think I can actually say that in return for the loan, the cities, or municipalities in this area, that their amount will be between 25 and 28% in return. So we will provide all the difference through the RES or Croatian Waters. And I'd like to add something else in the end that I think is very important to us. As a Croatian delegation, we have been given the opportunity to hold a panel on the international water forum in Turkey where the topic was integrated water management. Here I want to say that here, together with the Germans and the Dutch, we have been exposed to our new project, that is, the new Water Act, which in a unique way, means incorporating and defending against floods, water protection, which we are talking about here today, irrigation and water supply. And in addition to that, the municipal part, it means urban waterways, i.e. drain systems. And what's most important is everything. We have received commendation for our model, public goods, public water goods, so it is inalienable and no one can come into possession of either the water network, or the sewers, or the springs, or the water stream, or the river. No groundwater, no way. And here I'm saying that actually as far as the conclusions on this panel are concerned, which we've kept together with, again I want to say with the Germans and the Dutch who have very good experts in the water area that this is one model that we're going to do in another reading, so that's going to be here with you, that's another reading of the new proposal of the water law, so it's going to be one new model, a unique model that will be integrated in water management. And that here's one really special way to protect our national treasures and that's water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31576	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We will now interrupt the session and continue at 15.30 minutes with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union peace operation in Somalia. Thank you very much. And I wish you a good time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31577	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a Water Protection Project on the coastal area 2. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 313, Proposer: Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a water pollution protection project in coastal area 2. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was passed by a majority vote with 119 votes in favour and 3 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31578	We continue with the work of the Assembly session, with the 6th item of the agenda as announced. - Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union Peace Operation "EU NAVFOR SOMALIA-ATALANTA" the Government proposed all decisions, this decision on the basis of Article 45. Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia police, civil protection, civil servants and deputies in peace operations and other activities abroad. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Defence Committee and the Legislative Committee. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Pierre Simunovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31579	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I am particularly pleased that I can say a few more words about the draft Decision of the Croatian Parliament on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union Peace Operation NAVFOR Somalia Atalanta. The involvement of members of the armed forces in this peacekeeping operation is in line with the contribution of the development of the European Union's capacity to act in operations and disarmament, humanitarian tasks and rescue tasks. This confirms Croatia's strategic goal of membership in the European Union and contributes to crisis management capabilities. This is exactly the type of operation that our armed forces are increasingly preparing for, and in terms of the real action of our armed forces, it is also the type of operation that we can most often predict in the future. The United Nations Security Council supported the EU's plans to establish this operation and encouraged countries to co-operate with... The government of Somalia in the fight against piracy and armed robbery in peace, the protection of convoys, the international food programme, in the delivery of humanitarian aid to the Somali people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In May 2008, the Council of the European Union voiced concern over the increase of pirate attacks in Somalia's waters that threaten humanitarian efforts and international maritime transport and called on the International Community to participate in the escorting of ships that translate humanitarian aid to the Somali people. The Council of the European Union adopted a joint action establishing a coordination body in Brussels to support activities in the control and protection of vessels in the waters around Somalia and coordination between ships and NATO countries. Definition of this and the mandate of an operation involving the protection of ships, the presence of members of operations on board ships, the taking of necessary steps to prevent piracy, including the use of deterrence, prevention and intervention forces to end piracy and robbery in the field of operation. The planned duration of the operation is 12 months, i.e. 15 December 2008, and the operation should end on 15 December of this year. The structure of the operation provides for the participation of up to six ships and three aircraft for reconnaissance and a thousand and 200 soldiers. Currently, there are thousands of soldiers and five ships from five European Union countries. EU High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy Javier Solana in December 2008 called on the Republic of Croatia to engage in consultations on the generation of forces for this operation. In doing so, our representatives took part in this first conference and gained insight into the capabilities that we could provide for this operation, and it was found that up to five members of the armed forces, officers or officers of the Croatian Navy with the possibility of deploying ships engaged in the operation and operations in Northwood, Great Britain or in the outstretched headquarters of the Operation in Gibuti, depending on our bilateral agreement with the bodies of the European Union or the Member States which refer their ships to the operation. The time of deployment of members of the armed forces, schedule and duration of the engagement is not predetermined but is agreed by each participating country with the competent authorities of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, the security situation in the field of peace operation is assessed by the mid-risk mission. The financial resources for the participation costs of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the operation are secured in the state budget in the division of the MORH and amounting to 2,5 million kuna. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament a decision to refer to five members of the armed forces in 2009, with the possibility of rotating and to authorise the Government of the Republic of Croatia to determine the permanent rotation, number and organisational structure of members of the armed forces and to report to the Croatian Parliament upon completion of the participation of members of the armed forces in the operation. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. So much for one brief introduction about some additional elements of the operation. If you have any questions, I'd be more than happy to try to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31580	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First, it's a club debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31581	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable Secretary of State. Here, in a very short time again here in this High House we are discussing and discussing one activity of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. This time, it is the European Union Peace Operation NAVFOR Somalia Atalanta. In a significant period for Croatia, I am speaking in the context of the recent debate and the decision to confirm the Republic of Croatia's Agreement with the North Atlantic Alliance. This is what we view in the Croatian Democratic Community club as one of the continuing actions and in the area of the life of what Croatia has declared, which is that it wants to be co-responsible for the state of peace and security wherever it proves necessary in the world and yet in accordance with the definition that this House of Commons has established in a document that we adopted in July 2006. The long-term Development Plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia will develop to respond to their basic and constitutional tasks, which is the defence of national sovereignty and the second and participation in peacekeeping missions, or in the activities of partner countries around the world. As a reminder, I would just like to point out that the decisions of the Croatian Parliament have so far approved the participation of members of our armed forces in a total of 15 UN peacekeeping missions in the missions have hired a total of 133 members of the Armed Forces of whom the largest number has been assigned to the mission of the United Nations to the Golan Higher of a total of 95 members of the Armed Forces. Other members of the Armed Forces participate in the other 10 peacekeeping missions, with 276 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia participating in the ISAF mission in Afghanistan alone. It should certainly be pointed out here that it is not working when we speak in the context of Croatian contributions, then, of course, we should also point out the very quality work of Croatian police officers as well as Croatian diplomats in peace missions. The decision of the Croatian Parliament of 15 July 2008 approved the participation of members of the Armed Forces in the European Union Peace Operation in Chad and Central Africa in order to send 15 members of the Croatian Armed Forces to the peace operation in October 2008 for a period of 6 months. The involvement of members of the Croatian Armed Forces in the Peace Operation of the European Union, Somalia-Atalanta, is in line with the intention of contributing to the development of the operational capabilities of the European Union, to action in joint disarmament operations, humanitarian tasks, and rescue tasks, military counselling and assistance tasks, conflict prevention and peacekeeping tasks, crisis management tasks, including peace-making and post-conflict situation management. By participating in this operation of the European Union, the Republic of Croatia confirms its strategic objective, that through membership in the European Union, and now that we are close to this membership in the pre-accession process, we give our contribution to the European Union for crisis management in the area where the need is manifested. By engaging in this operation, the Republic of Croatia is proving its readiness to actively contribute to one of the long-term objectives, the common foreign and security policy of the European Union, which is to support peace and security in the area of Africa. It is generally known that piracy in the Somalian waters, i.e. the waters of the Aden Bay, is due to the 18-year absence of functional and functioning state authorities in Somalia. For this reason, the Security Council of the United Nations has called on countries and regional organisations to co-operate and take action to protect ships delivering humanitarian aid to Somalia since May 2008. In a further resolution of June 2008, the United Nations Security Council expressed concern over the growing frequency of piracy and armed robbery of ships carrying humanitarian aid to Somalia and endangering the safety of navigation, meant commercial maritime routes, and encouraged interested states to co-ordinate efforts to prevent piracy and armed robbery at sea with the transitional Federal Government of Somalia. The Security Council's resolution of October 2008 supported the plans of the European Union to establish a peace operation, as well as other international or national initiatives taken in accordance with previous resolutions, and encouraged countries that have such capabilities, to cooperate with the transitional Federal Government of Somalia in the fight against piracy and armed robbery at sea, and to protect convoys of the International Food Programme, which are key to delivering humanitarian aid to the Somalian people. In September 2008, the Council of the European Union adopted a joint action establishing a coordination body in Brussels to support the activities of certain Member States of the European Union in the implementation of control and protection of vessels in the waters around Somalia and coordination between European Union and NATO ships, as well as ships of commercial companies flying that intensive maritime route. A decision on the implementation of this peace operation was taken by the European Union in November 2008. The mandate of the European Union peace operation Somalia-Atalanta, which includes the protection of ships under the protection of the World Food Programme, including the presence of members of the operation on board ships, particularly when they sail the territorial waters of Somalia, the protection of merchant ships operating in the field of operation, the surveillance of the coastal area of Somalia, including territorial waters in which there are risks to maritime activities, in particular transport, the taking of necessary steps, including the use of force for the purpose of deterring, preventing, intervention to end acts of piracy and armed robbery. The structure of the operations foresees the participation of the European Union with forces of up to 6 ships and 3 reconnaissance aircraft, and a total of 1,000 and 200 soldiers. The High Representative of the European Union for the Common Foreign and Security Policy in December 2008 called on the Republic of Croatia to engage in informal consultations concerning the generation of forces for the specified operation. The possibility of our participation in the European Union Peace Operation has been considered and it has been established that up to 5 members of the armed forces, officers or officers of the Croatian Navy with the possibility of deploying them to the Operation in Hortwood in the United Kingdom or to command the forces of the operation located on board, and by boarding ships participating in the operation, depending on the agreement with the competent authorities of the European Union, or the Member States which refer their ships to the operation. This is another evidence and the operational capabilities of the Croatian Navy, which is one of the three branches of the Croatian Armed Forces, is also actively involved in carrying out international peacekeeping operations, as well as in all previous decisions and defining the capabilities of the Croatian Armed Forces, that is, the Chief Staff of the Armed Forces together with the Ministry of origin has proposed to this government, and this Government proposes to this High House an operation for which there is sufficient training of members of the Croatian Armed Forces, theirs in terms of knowing the standard operational procedures that apply to perform these operations, are sufficiently equipped and we can support them. I speak on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, to support the participation of members of the Armed Forces in this also demanding international peace mission. We see that the proposal of the Proposer will define the time when members of the Croatian Armed Forces will be sent, their schedule and the duration of the engagement of each individual officer or officer will be defined through an agreement with the competent authorities of the European Union to refer to the operation command and the bilateral partner to board each ship, and therefore further preparations and conclusion of the subsequent necessary arrangements will be necessary. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the participation of members of the Armed Forces in this peace operation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31582	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31583	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. Right away, the SDP Club will support this decision, which in at least three aspects can be called historical. First, because this is probably the last decision we'll make in this topic until we've become full members of NATO. Secondly, because in the proposal for this decision for the first time in the history of parliamentaryism, the Parliamentary Defence Committee discussed the rooms of the Ministry of Defence, or the Armed Forces. And third, but no less important because of what we need for this decision three times as many votes not for the one we've brought to join NATO. In any case, in the engagement of this operation we see the interest of the Republic of Croatia, it is in any case, we see much more of the interest of the Republic of Croatia than in some other decisions. So anyway, you write in the explanation... Under the flag of the World Programme for Food and Protection of Commercial Ships, on which Croatian sailors sail, we witnessed several cases, therefore, in that very part of the world where Croatian sailors were abducted and, fortunately, they all returned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What awaits us in the future as regards the participation of the Republic of Croatia in armed missions can be about two sentences, one is that we must reduce the number of missions and the other is that we must increase the number of soldiers. So when I say, first of all, I am talking about reducing those missions in which we are participating with one or two soldiers and concentrating therefore, our forces on those missions that are of greater interest to the Republic of Croatia so as to make it clear that we are not responding to all those who call us somewhere but also as a state of some, therefore, their special interests. An increase in the number of soldiers follows us because NATO standards and NATO expectations expect 8% of Croatian Land Army members to participate in peacekeeping missions, it should be said that very few countries have met this standard, however, this would mean specifically for Croatia that with the current 400 and some members of the Armed Forces in peacekeeping missions, this should be increased to nearly 800 to 900. Let me not, therefore, continue, colleagues and colleagues in this decision to see the interest of the Republic of Croatia, the protection of our sailors and our ships, and therefore we will support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31584	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, honourable representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31585	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed representatives of the Ministry of Defence, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of our debate, we would like to say that the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support the text in question of the proposal for a decision because the Republic of Croatia is harmonising its foreign and security policy with the views and actions of the European Union and thus offering it its abilities at its disposal and, in itself, speaking enough about our responsibility, that is, our commitments. Participation in peacekeeping missions is also an unequivocal confirmation of the maturity of the countries that send them, as well as the development and capabilities of the Armed Forces, which they participate in. The adoption of new tasks also significantly strengthens the political and military credibility of the Republic of Croatia in the international environment. In this way, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia gain important experience in the area of planning and implementation of common objectives in the operations of multinational forces. By participating in the European Union peace operation in Somalia, we contribute to the development of the operational capabilities of the European Union to act in joint operations that provide support for peace and security in Africa. Our members of the Armed Forces will gain experience in this mission and will check practical knowledge, especially in the prevention of conflict as well as in the joint work, thus proving our readiness to achieve the objectives set by foreign policy. With our participation, we will contribute to safer delivery and transport of humanitarian aid to the Somalian people, contribute to preventing pirate attacks in the waters of Somalia, as well as to jeopardising humanitarian efforts in terms of food delivery. We welcome the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which has also taken care of our human, material and financial opportunities in the preparation of the proposal for a decision, given the limited resources and capabilities. We also welcome the government's efforts made on the visit of members of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament, the Ministry of Defence of 17 March this year, which, based on what has been learned so far, wish to make a turn about reducing the number of peace operations in terms of rounding forces with the aim of facilitating the service and increasing the security of our members and the possible extraction of our members from certain regions. We hope that the Government and its bodies will implement all preparations of our members in good time and conclude the necessary agreements with international partners in order to implement effectively the obligations expected from the Republic of Croatia. At the end of our debate, we would just like to commend and welcome all members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the police, and civilian personnel involved in peace operations around the world on activities that achieve peace conservation and provide humanitarian assistance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31586	I also thank you on behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31587	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. If it didn't turn out that we were just criticizing the government and her cases, I'd be just the opposite in this case. I would like to commend you gentlemen, this is one form in which such proposals really need to be explained, so far they've been an extraordinary bunch of proposals, NATO is sending strength, the EU is sending strength, we want to enter these associations and nothing more. Here you are very clear here you have given us the opportunity to enter into the causes and history of the Somalia conflict to see what is the situation there, which are the forces with which the European Union will intervene there. A clear goal is the role of these forces, the risk factor you counted precisely on both the disease and the clearly this possibility and the wounding and the suffering of our soldiers. I think this is the way to do the job. And therefore, we really want to congratulate you on this, and the HNS will certainly support this proposal that we have ahead of us, there is only one questionable question, that is, since it is an operation at sea, we are wondering whether Minister Jandrokovic will ask Minister Žbogar whether we should participate in these EU forces, since there is a possibility that Slovenians will block us here too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31588	Thank you. I guess they don't. We're going to an individual debate. The first is Honorable Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31589	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have received a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union peace operation in Somalia. So this proposal was sent to the Prime Minister's Parliament with the previous opinion of the President of the Republic. This is one in a series of proposals that have recently come to Parliament and Parliament in line with the provisions of the Republic of Croatia to be a responsible member of the International Community, as a rule approves of sending our soldiers to the United Nations peace missions and the European Union. The Croatian Parliament's decisions approved the participation of members of the Armed Forces in a total of 15 peacekeeping missions of the United Nations. The Republic of Croatia currently has 424 members of the Armed Forces on missions, and the number is moving within the limits of the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia from 2006 to 2015. The largest number of members of the Armed Forces is engaged in Afghanistan, a total of about 274 members, and up to 300 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia can be engaged in Afghanistan this year. Five members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia can best be referred to this decision in the European Union's 2009 peacekeeping operation. The possibility of our participation in the European Union peace operation was considered in December 2008 in London. It found that a maximum of five members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia could be included in the European Union's operation, including officers or officers of the Croatian Navy, with the possibility of deploying to the operation command of the ship in Great Britain or boarding ships participating in the operation that depends on the agreement with the competent authorities of the European Union. The assessment is that the referral of members of the Armed Forces, so if they could engage, should be from 4 to 6 months 2009 following the preparation and conclusion of the necessary agreements. The operation plan and the rules of action were approved by Council Decision of Europe and the date of initiation of the operation was set on 15 December 2008 and the operation itself should be completed in 2009. The operational plan envisions the participation of the European Union with forces up to six ships and three aircraft, a total of 1200 soldiers. The United Kingdom, France, Greece, Spain and Germany are now deployed in the area of operations. The decision on the implementation of a peace operation to assist the implementation of the United Nations Resolution and the Security Council was adopted in 2008. The decision defines the mandate of a peace operation in Somalia involving the protection of ships under the flag of the World Food Programme, including the presence of members of the operation on ships when they sail the territorial waters of Somalia, including territorial waters where there is a threat to maritime activities, in particular pirates and armed robbery in the field of operations. So what is the Republic and what is the interest of the Republic of Croatia in including members of the Armed Forces in the European Union peace operation? In participating in these operations, our country is credible to testify that it is ready to take over its part of the world's general security burden, we are contributing to the development of the European Union's operational capabilities to humanitarian tasks, disarmament operations and rescue tasks, conflict prevention, including peace-making. How we see that ships of members of the European Union and of the NATO Pact, whose member we are now, are participating in the European Union operation in Somalia. The participation of Croatian Navy officers and officers will be useful in the acquisition of practical knowledge and experience both in the exercise of ship's duties and in the main work. The participation of the Republic of Croatia proves its readiness to actively contribute to the objectives of the European Union's foreign and security policy, which is to support peace and security. The involvement in a peace operation in Africa confirms our strategic goal, membership in the European Union, strengthens political and military credibility among EU members by presenting themselves as a reliable partner in the exercise of the task of peace. So these are all the reasons why I'm going to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31590	Thank you. And in an individual debate, distinguished representative Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31591	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The United Nations Security Council of 1814 of 15 May 2008 called on countries and regional organisations to co-operate and take actions to protect ships delivering humanitarian aid to Somalia. The Republic of Croatia currently has a total of 133 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations peace missions, and the number is moving within the limits of a specific Long-term Development Plan for the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in 2006-2015. The involvement of members of the Armed Forces in European Union peace operations, the EU, NAFOR, Somalia, Atalanta is in line with the intention of contributing to the development of the European Union's operational capabilities to act in joint disarmament operations, humanitarian tasks and rescue tasks, military counselling and assistance tasks, conflict prevention and retired tasks, crisis management tasks, including peace creation and conflict management. The military protection of ships under the flag of the World Food Programme, including the presence of members of the operation on vessels sailing through Somalia's territorial waters, is only one of the tasks of the European peace operation, which will soon include officers and officers of the Croatian Navy. Given that EU and NATO ships are participating in the operation, the engagement of the Croatian Navy has already been assessed as a good opportunity to acquire... knowledge and experience. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The foreign ministers of the Member States of the European Union approved the first maritime operation of the Union whose task is to protect ships that sail through... The bay where the Somali pirates attacked close to 100 ships this year alone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Piratery in Somali waters, or waters... The bay is the consequence of the 18-year absence of a functional state government in Somalia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] During 2006, when the alliance of Islamic courts declared piracy a criminal offence for which the death penalty was scheduled, acts of piracy ended for a short time. However, after the Ethiopian troops deposed the Islamic courts' alliances in 2006, piracy is reviving, and between 1,000 and 1500 former soldiers, fishermen and technical experts begin pirate activities as an additional source of income, allowing them to earn more than a million dollars. The piratery sites are in the area of the autonomous province... around the castles... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] where they come from in the marches of Somalian international waters of... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The bay all the way south to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although the area of Puntland is relatively stable compared to the rest of Somalia, pirates do not take any measures because piracy is supported by individual government officials. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On 15 December last year, an EU NAVFOR mission under... Operation Atalanta will replace a fleet of four NATO ships currently operating on one of the busiest maritime lines in the world. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The EU fleet will include 6 warships and 3 observation aircraft with a total crew of 1200 people. The 8 countries that gave the crew are Belgium, Britain, France, Germany, Greece, Sweden, Spain and the Netherlands, while India, Malaysia, Russia, the United States is among the countries that already have ships operating in the area where the piratery has increased significantly. Specific tasks of EU NAVFOR operating under... The UN includes the protection of World Food Programme ships as well as merchant ships passing the Somali coast. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The mission will also be monitored by areas in which maritime transport is at risk and will take the necessary steps to end piratery and armed robbery in areas where they are patrolling. EU High Representative for Foreign Policy and Security Javier Solana said that the rules of engagement are very strong with the possibility of all means, including the force of protection, in order to protect the prevention of the criminal programme of all forms of piratery. It is therefore foreseen that the joint forces of the European Union shall also protect commercial vessels operating in the area in which the operations are carried out. The forces will constantly monitor the coastal area of Somalia, including territorial waters that pose a danger to maritime activities. By engaging in this operation, the Republic of Croatia is proving its readiness to participate actively and contribute to one of the long-term objectives of the European Union's common foreign and security policy, which is to support peace and security in the area of Africa. For all the above, I will support this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31592	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Excuse me. Also in the meantime, a debater called, and it is a respected representative of Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31593	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I won't be long. I've got three, four sentences that I'm going to say before. So, right now, the Republic of Croatia is participating with 434 members of the armed forces in peacekeeping operations because it is a broader concept than a world peace mission. What we have seen and heard is that certain movements occur in terms of how the Republic of Croatia refers primarily to the number, structure and tasks that these members should have in the engagement in peace operations. Right now in Afghanistan we have a situation that we are at least 4 locations, there are more of them, but these are 4 stationed in the centres and we have different commands, we have participations here with the Lithuanians, the Germans, the Hungarians and this group there, they're also in one likely mission, they're there talking as I speak, but that's what the vice president is going to let me say something else. I've only got a few sentences left.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31594	You go ahead. So far, it's tolerable.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31595	Yeah, yeah. So we're really just about to join NATO, and it's still a new situation. It is also an opportunity for the Republic of Croatia to reconsider, as I said in participation with both number and structure, and to make a stable redefinition of the engagement of our forces abroad. That's why I suggest, what I've been saying is that I might suggest that the Croatian Parliament discusses the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in peace operations abroad. So, not fragmentary, now we have Somalia, yesterday we had Chad and the Central African Republic, the day before yesterday we had another thing. Let's look at the situation as a whole, see that we are here, already tomorrow, a NATO member where we are in that new position and then identify ourselves as a state according to our common task and goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31596	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31597	We move to the Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union Peace Operation "EU NAVFOR SOMALIA-ATALANTA", Proposer: Government of the Republic of Croatia. I stress that we are in line with Article 227. The rules of procedure for this decision require a two-thirds majority of MPs, so 102 votes. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union Peace Operation "EU NAVFOR SOMALIA-ATALANTA". Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most of the votes with 128 votes are for, no abstentions and 3 against the accepted Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union Peace Operation "EU NAVFOR SOMALIA-ATALANTA".
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31598	Point 7, we skip because the conditions for its discussion are not met and we move to point 8, that is - Proposal for a law on the release of certain non-tax revenues in 2009, first reading, P.Z. No. 218. Proposer: When adopting this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31599	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We propose, in fact, even before the adoption of the state budget for this year, we have proposed a Law on the release of certain non-tax revenue in 2009 because this law regulates in a certain way a part of the budgetary and extra-financial revenue made to the state budget, which state-owned enterprises or certain funds. In particular, non-tax revenues are regulated by specific regulations relating to administrative affairs and economic functions in the areas of water, forest, transport, communication, urban planning, housing promotion functions and other functions. Direct revenues are charged by different entities from the ministries and other state administration bodies financed from the state budget and other beneficiaries of budgetary and non-profit funds, public enterprises, local and regional self-government units and their utility companies as well as various non-profit organisations. The OECD also lists in non-tax revenue all charges paid by the user and are related to the cost of providing services. Until six months ago, we didn't actually have a number that were all different fees paid by our population and our economy. In September 2008, the Ministry of Finance published a register of non-tax revenue, which included as many as 245 different fees, fees, premiums and membership fees, totalling 12.5 billion kuna in 2007 compared to the year 2002, which was an increase of 7 billion kuna. In doing so, local self-government units participated with 42.3%, extra budget funds 32.7%, and the state with 11.1%). And in that year, it was 3.8% of Croatia's gross social product. The reduction of economic activity through the impact of the global economic and financial crisis actually requires us to save at all levels, so we felt that, as one of the anti-recession measures, we should analyse all of these fees that are paid and, through the reductions in the part of the tax paid by the economy and the population, actually reduce their costs. When we proposed this law, the situation still hasn't gotten as bad as it is today. So, if we're saying today that industrial production in January, so right at the beginning of this year is down by 14%, that at the same time in industry, we're only growing supplies in that month by 4%, that the consumer price index is also high, even measured by inflation, even 4.2%, it significantly increases the unemployment of just those who worked in the industry, or other words the number of employees in industry, that according to previous data from the State Statistics Institute in 2008, the social product fell to only 2.4%, then it's already enough signs for the alarm and that something should be done. With this law, we propose to reduce several non-taxable obligations paid by both legal and natural persons and that it applies on a one-time basis in this year when we estimate that the crisis will be the biggest. This relates to the water contribution, to the forest contribution, to the compensation for packaging and packaging waste, monumental rent, municipal contribution and contribution to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. The reduction of these financial contributions would reduce business costs in one part would also reduce investment costs, which Croatia will most likely miss in 2009. Some of these fees and contributions are paid by investors right now. For example, water contribution is paid on investment. It is paid, divided into three zones, based on business premises, residential buildings for permanent and occasional housing, social standard facilities, religious facilities, production facilities, roads, products, telecommunications sewers, open business buildings and other open buildings. Where, in accordance with the Water Economy Financing Act, the Government was left to set by a special regulation the amount of water contribution, it was, in fact, when the first regulation established the water contribution level that called for the alert because it was then defined in such amounts that it meant 30% of the value of the investment. Furthermore, after a month, the government changed the regulation and halved these amounts for a water contribution. We propose this law not to make a contribution in 2009 because we estimate that investments will be less and those necessary investments and investors should actually be stimulated in such a way that they do not have to in that year if they invest in the water contribution. The forest contribution is paid by legal and natural persons who carry out economic activity in Croatia at 0.07% of the total income achieved. In other words, those who make high total income relate first and foremost to trade and other activities that carry out major traffic but that does not mean that they also make a high profit or that they are profitable pay more. So, bigger traffic, bigger contribution. We suggest that in 2009 it decreases or that rate decreases by 25%. The next thing we suggest, it is a compensation for packaging and packaging waste that was introduced in 2006 with the aim of preventing environmental pollution. It should be said that this does not apply to those 0.50 kunas that are given to those who care for waste management. In 2008, depending on the type of packaging, it was between 0.09 and 0.30 kuna per unit of packaging and that Regulation was to increase by 33.3% and 0.40 kuna per unit of packaging in 2009. It should be said that the government remained at 2008 amounts, i.e. did not apply an increase in 2009. Here we also suggest that this amount paid in 2008 be halved, i.e. that this contribution is paid only at 50%. The Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods introduced the payment of the monumental rent. The memorial rent shall be paid by natural and legal persons carrying out economic activity in the immovable cultural goods or in the area of cultural historical integrity, i.e. where they carry out certain activities established by law. The memorial salary shall be paid according to the useful area of the business space, i.e. at a rate of 0,05 % of total income for legal and natural persons carrying out the legally stated activity. This obligation significantly affects, for example, the situation. small craftsmen working in culturally historical cores of cities, hotels, or total tourist and catering activity. We also suggest here that the 2009 memorial rent be paid at 50% or that the commitment be halved. The public contribution is also paid by investors, collected by local self-government units, often reducing the amount of contributions themselves if they consider that the investor coming into their territory actually brings some advantages. Here we propose that this municipal contribution established by the Law on municipal activity be reduced by 25% and as a last resort to the contribution of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce which is also divided into three categories depending on the total activity, total income and the number of employees, and is paid at a rate of 0.01% on the basis of the total income. It should be said that at the same amount of 25% as we propose the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which is autonomous in making such decisions, has already reduced the chamber contribution. And we believe that by reducing the mandatory, these said commitments, it would affect the reduction in the cost of business, one part of the Croatian economy, primarily those that will decide to invest this year and thus reduce their investment costs. In the coming crisis or in the crisis which has already significantly stepped on Croatian soil, discharging investors means ensuring new jobs or preserving existing jobs, means reducing the cost of business We estimate that the reduced revenues will not affect existing projects, because so far it has been recorded in part as is evident from the findings of the State Audit and the accidental spending of these funds. In one part of the year, however, we can give up some of these benefits that have certain purposes and are often not used in one year. Here's the shortest on the bill. The next thing I want to say is the government's opinion. And the government says it doesn't support this bill, and it also presents these facts that we cited in the law's reasoning, that in September last year she listed all the obligations and formed a register for which there are six months of analysis. In its package of 10 anti-recession measures, the government has put redundancies of the economy under its second point. And explained very briefly that it will reduce certain non-taxable duties such as that. already reduced Croatian Chamber of Commerce's contribution by 25%. She didn't say in that package of hers when it would be time to do that, and we just discussed the budget rebalance yesterday. Therefore, if something had already been done in this segment seriously, then it should have been done before the budget rebalancing took place. But what's interesting is what the government has said is what are the steps after it's listed these obligations and set up a register. So she said it would be the following activities. A detailed analysis of the register of non-taxable income with the participation of all stakeholders in the simplification and rationalisation of the system. There's no information about that, six months from the registrar's structure has passed. So no activity has been undertaken. The next thing we know, the government is to control the introduction of new non-taxable incomes, by defining use and additional restrictions. What happened in that segment also we don't have any information. The following obligation is to update the register and amend the payment account order as far as our information suggests only that the payment account provisions have been amended, so that they are published for each type of user. So, despite the government being in a package of anti-recession measures to do so, we see that this is not a serious intention because there is not a single segment in Friday's budget rebalancing that we are going to adopt that would reduce precisely these non-taxable revenues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31600	Thank you. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. Well, then I'm opening up a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31601	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. And this legislative proposal on the release of payments from certain non-tax revenue in 2009, an integral part of the SDP anti-recession package, legal solutions offered by the SDP as its response, as their view of compensating the negative consequences of the global economic and financial crisis. So this law of ours is an intervening character. It is conditioned by the recession as a special situation and its action is foreseen as we said only in 2009 although it is increasingly possible that the recession as a reason for this law will extend to 2010. The aim of this legislative proposal is to reduce legal giving of economic operators both in regular activity and in investment investments, in order to reduce the cost of business, i.e. to relieve the Croatian economy in conditions of increased liquidity and capital prices. The register of non-tax revenue published by the Ministry of Finance in September 2008 shows that economic operators in Croatia pay even 245 parafiscal charges in the form of various fees, fees, court and administrative fees, premiums and membership fees, fines and professional examinations, which are carried out by the various entities from central authorities of the state administration, through units of local and regional self-government, budget and non-profit users, all the way to public companies and non-profit organisations. What kind of parafiscal burden is the best evidence that we still do not have data from the economy during 2007, according to these non-taxable donations? $12.5 billion. So, in addition to being very numerous, these non-taxable revenues show a very dynamic growth. From year to year by about a billion and a half kuna, so from 2002 to 2007, they have been cumulatively increased by about 7 billion kuna. Most of the funds collected from these fees, to be a little more precise, 5.3 billion kuna or a little more than 42% of the total amount, were added to the budgets of the local self-government units. Another 4 billion or 33% of the paid revenue went to extra- budget funds, among which the largest growth in the incomes of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund and, of course, the revenues of Croatian waters. In the state register, $1.4 billion or 11% of the total amount of these non-tax charges went. What is the fiscal significance of these donations document both data and the Ministry of Finance which say they account for between three and four percent of Croatia's gross domestic product. It's at the level of countries like Germany, Italy, Ireland, it's more than Belgium, but it's less than in France, Austria or, say, the Netherlands. You may find it interesting to know that the European recorder is by these untaxable donations of Finland where these revenues account for more than 8% of gross domestic product. The Croatian Employers' Association has warned countless times that the non-taxable incomes are one of the main problems of Croatian economies, as according to their local authorities, municipal companies and public companies without any control and without serious influences create their demands and affect the pockets of businesses and citizens. It was actually the reason they asked for the establishment of a register of non-taxable incomes to finally be seen in one place as to which it was given, who generated them, based on what and how much they amounted to. Entrepreneurs themselves point out that local self-government is taking so much, for example, this is the case with municipal contributions or monumental rents that entrepreneurs are considering giving up on the investment project or if they are already working, because they simply don't have an account to work on. The problems certainly arise in all parts of Croatia, with each environment, of course, and one that has its specific features. It should be stressed here that the SDP has proposed that this law be adopted by emergency procedure before the adoption of the 2009 state budget as well as the budget of the units of local and regional self-government, therefore, in December last year so that the effects of this legislative proposal can be measured as early as this year 2009. However, as far as urgency is concerned, and almost certainly the acceptance itself, and this proposal will experience the same fate as those of the previous anti-recession package. In the meantime, in the four months that our proposal was to come to an end for discussion, some of its parts have become inactive. In the meantime, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce itself has reduced the contribution rate since the beginning of 2009 by 25%, therefore, just as much as we have suggested so that it now stands at 0.075% instead of the previous 0.1%. Furthermore, the Ministry of Environment at the beginning of this month amended the Regulation on packaging waste in such a way that the incentive fee on packaging waste returned to the level from 2008 so that it now amounts to 0,09 to 0,30 kuna per unit of packaging depending on its volume. So part of our legal proposal is actually consummated and it is our best confirmation that it is good and necessary. And it's even a partial satisfaction if this proposal, as I've said before, will not be accepted. However, it is certain that, with all this, there is also a series of options that the state can help the economy overcome this severe crisis, and this is precisely the additional amendments to the rules on packaging waste, and that is, the losses suffered by the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, and then, of course, by the state itself, which arises in the field of the management of packaging waste from drinks and beverages, I will say a few words further below. Namely, interested shareholders propose to amend Article 14 of the Regulation, i.e. to change the amount of the refund from the existing 0.50 to 0.30 kuna per packaging unit. Therefore, the reason lies in the fact that, according to the Fund's data, from the beginning of the application of the Regulation, producers and importers of drinks and beverages placed about 2.3 billion bottles of compensation on the market of the Republic of Croatia and collected around 2 billion 950 million bottles during the same period. So the refund of packaging waste is about 130 percent. For this difference of 650 million bottles and these are old bottles collected from dumps, imported bottles from neighbouring regions, as well as made new bottles, imagine, precisely to receive a return fee of 0.50 kuna, the fund was paid on behalf of the refund fee of as much as 325 million kuna. It is expected that around 200 million pieces of packaging units will still be collected annually for which fees will never be charged. So these are the bottles brought by tourists, it's importing bottles from neighbouring regions, for which the annual fund will have to pay about 100 million kuna on behalf of the refund fee only, and thus actually create a financial loss. If the proposal to reduce the amount of the refund fee to EUR 0,30, the fund would pay 60 million in return for the same amount on behalf of the refund fee instead of the current 100 million kuna, or at an annual level, savings of around 40 million kuna. By making such a decision, the state would show an understanding of the economic crisis. The economy would have been easier to raise funds, and the return of packaging waste would certainly not have been reduced. On the other hand, the grey economy and imports of bottles from neighbouring regions would be reduced, so primarily from Serbia and Bosnia, and it would also be demoted by individual entities to extract money from the fund in a way that for 0.20 kunas make PET bottles that are so empty and only produced to sell the fund for 0.50 kuna. The imagination of Croatian citizens or better to say the determination to survive has no limits. In any event, the annual savings for the economy and the fund would amount to nearly 200 million kuna. The second measure proposed by economic operators in order to disbursement is also an amendment to Article 15. Regulation, i.e. the suspension of the incentive fee. Namely, the incentive fee, which represents a burden exclusively for packaging, for drinking and drinks for the purpose of encouraging multiple use of multiple or return packagings when the rules are adopted in August 2005, is justified by the fact that the share of plastic in municipal waste is 11% and 40% of PET packaging. In this respect, the reason for the introduction of such compensation was to prevent environmental pollution by throwing and packaging into inappropriate places, primarily in nature, and to encourage its reprocessing into new products. Of course, no one thought that the return of one-time packaging would be over 130%, or that all these packagings would be collected and delivered to processing plants. Since this is all the packaging that has been placed on the market collected through a return fee of 0.50 kuna, further meaning of the existence of an incentive fee has been asked. The assessment of the economy is that by abolishing the incentive fee, the economy would save around 20 million kuna annually. It is clear from the above that Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs would benefit from these measures, so we hoped that in this case the government and the competent ministry would act responsibly and accept the proposals that were actually sent to them from the economic circles. This hope was also fueled by the fact that the government itself, in its anti-recession programme, had predicted a measure of discharging the economy from non-taxable givings, so the point of the 2nd programme has already been mentioned here. And in fact, the team is more surprised that our proposal is the government, that the government reacted negatively to it, so it gave a negative opinion. It turns out that there is no other reason for such a negative opinion other than the generally known, standard, that the proposal came from opposition circles or lines, and that is why the Government does not give its measures. In fact, the notor fact is that no concrete measure has yet been taken in the Government's anti-recession programme in that mentioned item 2 which speaks of the need to reduce parafiscal or non-taxable duties. It's still all in the aggregate state of intent. And let me get this straight. The reduction of those parafiscal liabilities in the proposed volume would have a positive impact on the reduction of the total operating costs and investment costs. In these times of crisis, any disbursement of investors is of paramount importance in order to secure new jobs or to retain existing jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31602	Thank you. HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31603	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Dear colleagues and colleagues. They say that the most frequently used word is the market in economic discussions, and it is doubtless the market economy within the capitalist economic system is the most important and powerful generator of overall economic activity and thus social progress. However, the model of the market economy is not precise and firmly defined by absolutely defined definitions but has hundreds of nuanced variations. In recent years deep-rooted neo-liberalist approach to the market economy and dominant materialism, but also incomprehensible and unreasonable greed of leaders or so on. The top managements of many companies, primarily financial institutions, those in love with funds, those in love with paper fiction, led to economic deficits and economic and market failures, caused a major global economic crisis, most of mankind to depression, and many to despair. As a result, reduced economic activity is happening in almost the world as well as in Croatia. As the financial sector contributes to the reduction of economic activity, one banking example points to us. A few days ago, when one entrepreneur in Croatia who started a certain business a few years ago, the bank changed the interest rate to a long-term loan from 6 to 14%. Indeed, under such circumstances, it can only be expected to give up investment, so it is no wonder that many offer different models and approaches for easier going through a crisis or easier getting out of a crisis. Therefore, the SDP club also submitted to the Croatian Parliament a proposal for a law on the release of certain non-taxable incomes, as one of the anti-recession laws. It should be pointed out that last year, the Ministry of Finance published a Register of Untaxable Incomes that showed that as many as 245 different fees, fees, premiums, membership fees, of which an average of 12 billion kunas are annual incomes, which indeed confirms that it is a very resourceful and wide-ranging, and a spectrum of giving that burdens the economy. But of these revenues, it should be noted that even half of the waste on the incomes of local self-government units, 32% are the revenues of extra- budget funds, and only 11% are the revenues of the state. This bill proposes a reduction of 6 different non-taxable obligations paid by legal and natural persons in 2009, and the HDZ Club adheres to the proposal of the parent board to conclude that the Croatian Parliament should not accept this bill. Proposed reduction, why is it unacceptable? The proposed reduction of the forest economy by 25% is not realistic because this compensation for the generally useful functioning of the forest and would endanger, would have been huge if the lack of resources left the recovery of the forest, and as we know, the forests are greatly threatened. First of all, it's the big drying process. The postponement of the water contribution would jeopardise the already secure stable export of funding because the water contribution was just introduced since the State budget was not sufficient for the technical and economic maintenance of around 25 thousand kilometres of water flow and more than 4 thousand 300km of primary draining. The proposed reduction in packaging fee and packaging waste by 50% is unnecessary because the amended regulation has already been reduced by 40%. The proposed 50% reduction of the monumental rent would jeopardise the regular and planned protection and preservation of cultural goods because it is precisely the monumental rent of one of the most important segments in the process, but all changes in the amount of compensation or possible suspension of fees are within the jurisdiction of local self-government units. The proposed reduction of the municipal contribution by 20% is not feasible because determining the level of municipal contributions is the self-government right of local self-government units and this is in accordance with Article 134. The Constitution and in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Communist Economy. The proposed reduction of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce's contribution by 25% is also unnecessary at this time because, in the meantime, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce at the Assembly decided to reduce the allocation to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce by 25%, so that now the allocations look instead of 0.01%, 0.075% with this decision of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce being good for the economy, however, we expect that it will also go to co-operation because total revenues are not a credible indicator or can be the basis for compensation because it must not be a final solution because the total income is not an adequate indicator of business. It is important to stress that the proposed reduction in tax revenues would also result in a reduction in the planned revenues of all entities benefiting from these untaxable incomes, as well as a reduction in the revenues of the state budget, the budget of cities and municipalities, and the draft law does not specify how to ensure replacement incomes, i.e. to compensate for the lack of income in the state budget, as well as in the budget of cities and municipalities. It is also important to stress that this register of non-taxable revenues which has established 245 different types of compensation is probably just the first step to follow now a detailed analysis, and then finally a solution to how in a systematic way to solve the problem of the different fees that so many are burdening the economy. Of course, any tax discharge has a positive impact on economic activity, but I would once again point out that only monetary policy can directly affect economic recovery and faster economic growth, which is the most needed both in Croatia and much of the world at this point. Because the uncontested and scientifically proven, and in practice confirmed that the supply of money, and thus the price of money, i.e. the level of interest rates, has the most direct and strongest impact on both production and employment and prices. It is undoubtedly the most effective instrument, an anti-recession instrument that can convince us that this economic world is not the only world and that there is another economic world that should be better. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Dear colleagues and colleagues. They say that the most frequently used word is the market in economic discussions, and it is doubtless the market economy within the capitalist economic system is the most important and powerful generator of overall economic activity and thus social progress. However, the model of the market economy is not precise and firmly defined by absolutely defined definitions but has hundreds of nuanced variations. In recent years deep-rooted neo-liberalist approach to the market economy and dominant materialism, but also incomprehensible and unreasonable greed of leaders or so on. The top managements of many companies, primarily financial institutions, those in love with funds, those in love with paper fiction, led to economic deficits and economic and market failures, caused a major global economic crisis, most of mankind to depression, and many to despair. As a result, reduced economic activity is happening in almost the world as well as in Croatia. As the financial sector contributes to the reduction of economic activity, one banking example points to us. A few days ago, when one entrepreneur in Croatia who started a certain business a few years ago, the bank changed the interest rate to a long-term loan from 6 to 14%. Indeed, under such circumstances, it can only be expected to give up investment, so it is no wonder that many offer different models and approaches for easier going through a crisis or easier getting out of a crisis. Therefore, the SDP club also submitted to the Croatian Parliament a proposal for a law on the release of certain non-taxable incomes, as one of the anti-recession laws. It should be pointed out that last year, the Ministry of Finance published a Register of Untaxable Incomes that showed that as many as 245 different fees, fees, premiums, membership fees, of which an average of 12 billion kunas are annual incomes, which indeed confirms that it is a very resourceful and wide-ranging, and a spectrum of giving that burdens the economy. But of these revenues, it should be noted that even half of the waste on the incomes of local self-government units, 32% are the revenues of extra- budget funds, and only 11% are the revenues of the state. This bill proposes a reduction of 6 different non-taxable obligations paid by legal and natural persons in 2009, and the HDZ Club adheres to the proposal of the parent board to conclude that the Croatian Parliament should not accept this bill. Proposed reduction, why is it unacceptable? The proposed reduction of the forest economy by 25% is not realistic because this compensation for the generally useful functioning of the forest and would endanger, would have been huge if the lack of resources left the recovery of the forest, and as we know, the forests are greatly threatened. First of all, it's the big drying process. The postponement of the water contribution would jeopardise the already secure stable export of funding because the water contribution was just introduced since the State budget was not sufficient for the technical and economic maintenance of around 25 thousand kilometres of water flow and more than 4 thousand 300km of primary draining. The proposed reduction in packaging fee and packaging waste by 50% is unnecessary because the amended regulation has already been reduced by 40%. The proposed 50% reduction of the monumental rent would jeopardise the regular and planned protection and preservation of cultural goods because it is precisely the monumental rent of one of the most important segments in the process, but all changes in the amount of compensation or possible suspension of fees are within the jurisdiction of local self-government units. The proposed reduction of the municipal contribution by 20% is not feasible because determining the level of municipal contributions is the self-government right of local self-government units and this is in accordance with Article 134. The Constitution and in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Communist Economy. The proposed reduction of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce's contribution by 25% is also unnecessary at this time because, in the meantime, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce at the Assembly decided to reduce the allocation to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce by 25%, so that now the allocations look instead of 0.01%, 0.075% with this decision of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce being good for the economy, however, we expect that it will also go to co-operation because total revenues are not a credible indicator or can be the basis for compensation because it must not be a final solution because the total income is not an adequate indicator of business. It is important to stress that the proposed reduction in tax revenues would also result in a reduction in the planned revenues of all entities benefiting from these untaxable incomes, as well as a reduction in the revenues of the state budget, the budget of cities and municipalities, and the draft law does not specify how to ensure replacement incomes, i.e. to compensate for the lack of income in the state budget, as well as in the budget of cities and municipalities. It is also important to stress that this register of non-taxable revenues which has established 245 different types of compensation is probably just the first step to follow now a detailed analysis, and then finally a solution to how in a systematic way to solve the problem of the different fees that so many are burdening the economy. Of course, any tax discharge has a positive impact on economic activity, but I would once again point out that only monetary policy can directly affect economic recovery and faster economic growth, which is the most needed both in Croatia and much of the world at this point. Because the uncontested and scientifically proven, and in practice confirmed that the supply of money, and thus the price of money, i.e. the level of interest rates, has the most direct and strongest impact on both production and employment and prices. It is undoubtedly the most effective instrument, an anti-recession instrument that can convince us that this economic world is not the only world and that there is another economic world that should be better. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Dear colleagues and colleagues. They say that the most frequently used word is the market in economic discussions, and it is doubtless the market economy within the capitalist economic system is the most important and powerful generator of overall economic activity and thus social progress. However, the model of the market economy is not precise and firmly defined by absolutely defined definitions but has hundreds of nuanced variations. In recent years deep-rooted neo-liberalist approach to the market economy and dominant materialism, but also incomprehensible and unreasonable greed of leaders or so on. The top managements of many companies, primarily financial institutions, those in love with funds, those in love with paper fiction, led to economic deficits and economic and market failures, caused a major global economic crisis, most of mankind to depression, and many to despair. As a result, reduced economic activity is happening in almost the world as well as in Croatia. As the financial sector contributes to the reduction of economic activity, one banking example points to us. A few days ago, when one entrepreneur in Croatia who started a certain business a few years ago, the bank changed the interest rate to a long-term loan from 6 to 14%. Indeed, under such circumstances, it can only be expected to give up investment, so it is no wonder that many offer different models and approaches for easier going through a crisis or easier getting out of a crisis. Therefore, the SDP club also submitted to the Croatian Parliament a proposal for a law on the release of certain non-taxable incomes, as one of the anti-recession laws. It should be pointed out that last year, the Ministry of Finance published a Register of Untaxable Incomes that showed that as many as 245 different fees, fees, premiums, membership fees, of which an average of 12 billion kunas are annual incomes, which indeed confirms that it is a very resourceful and wide-ranging, and a spectrum of giving that burdens the economy. But of these revenues, it should be noted that even half of the waste on the incomes of local self-government units, 32% are the revenues of extra- budget funds, and only 11% are the revenues of the state. This bill proposes a reduction of 6 different non-taxable obligations paid by legal and natural persons in 2009, and the HDZ Club adheres to the proposal of the parent board to conclude that the Croatian Parliament should not accept this bill. Proposed reduction, why is it unacceptable? The proposed reduction of the forest economy by 25% is not realistic because this compensation for the generally useful functioning of the forest and would endanger, would have been huge if the lack of resources left the recovery of the forest, and as we know, the forests are greatly threatened. First of all, it's the big drying process. The postponement of the water contribution would jeopardise the already secure stable export of funding because the water contribution was just introduced since the State budget was not sufficient for the technical and economic maintenance of around 25 thousand kilometres of water flow and more than 4 thousand 300km of primary draining. The proposed reduction in packaging fee and packaging waste by 50% is unnecessary because the amended regulation has already been reduced by 40%. The proposed 50% reduction of the monumental rent would jeopardise the regular and planned protection and preservation of cultural goods because it is precisely the monumental rent of one of the most important segments in the process, but all changes in the amount of compensation or possible suspension of fees are within the jurisdiction of local self-government units. The proposed reduction of the municipal contribution by 20% is not feasible because determining the level of municipal contributions is the self-government right of local self-government units and this is in accordance with Article 134. The Constitution and in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Communist Economy. The proposed reduction of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce's contribution by 25% is also unnecessary at this time because, in the meantime, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce at the Assembly decided to reduce the allocation to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce by 25%, so that now the allocations look instead of 0.01%, 0.075% with this decision of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce being good for the economy, however, we expect that it will also go to co-operation because total revenues are not a credible indicator or can be the basis for compensation because it must not be a final solution because the total income is not an adequate indicator of business. It is important to stress that the proposed reduction in tax revenues would also result in a reduction in the planned revenues of all entities benefiting from these untaxable incomes, as well as a reduction in the revenues of the state budget, the budget of cities and municipalities, and the draft law does not specify how to ensure replacement incomes, i.e. to compensate for the lack of income in the state budget, as well as in the budget of cities and municipalities. It is also important to stress that this register of non-taxable revenues which has established 245 different types of compensation is probably just the first step to follow now a detailed analysis, and then finally a solution to how in a systematic way to solve the problem of the different fees that so many are burdening the economy. Of course, any tax discharge has a positive impact on economic activity, but I would once again point out that only monetary policy can directly affect economic recovery and faster economic growth, which is the most needed both in Croatia and much of the world at this point. Because the uncontested and scientifically proven, and in practice confirmed that the supply of money, and thus the price of money, i.e. the level of interest rates, has the most direct and strongest impact on both production and employment and prices. It is undoubtedly the most effective instrument, an anti-recession instrument that can convince us that this economic world is not the only world and that there is another economic world that should be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31604	Thank you. Mr. Representative Damir Cain, IDS representative club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31605	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Yeah, that's exactly what's listed here. We have 245 parafiscal duties today. Part of these revenues normally belong to local self-government, part going towards the state, but what's most tragic is 3.8% of gross social product. If the gross social product last year was 350 billion kuna, let's look at it now as much as 4%, so we're free to say that this 2009 is going to be cca 15 billion kuna, if it's the exact fact that for 2007 it was 12 billion kuna. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The SDP proposes to free certain non-taxable incomes paid by legal and natural persons in 2009 and that, for a water contribution in certain percentages, means a clear compensation for the general usefulness of the functioning of the forest, compensation for packaging and packaging waste, monumental rent, municipal contribution, contribution to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. The IDS, however, would have some other additions here. We would love it if the promoters would accept that the first ZAMP should be completely abolished, for me it's one thing to make up money. Who does this money go to, people would like to know. But one of the most common complaints of small merchants, hairdressers, caterers, barbers, or razors in order for us to say there is this ZAMP, and I personally think that it should be abolished, on this basis turning tens of millions of kunas, and that money, we have the impression that it is divided in one extremely non-transparent way. Worse with this TV fee. She today, if I'm not mistaken, is 78 kuna. Croatian broadcasters, if I'm not mistaken, kill on that basis over a billion and 100 million kunas. Two hundred people on Croatian television have far higher salaries than ministers, MPs, etc., we know that it is true, but I don't care. What bothers me is something else, that it openly begins to determine mainly at this pre-election time work for the government. And they do become government service. But let me get back to the subscription now. Imagine, gentlemen, an insolence. In one hotel, for example, you have a hundred people. And now every room has to pay this television subscription, so 100 rooms times 78 kuna, that's 7 thousand 800 kuna times 12, that's somewhere around 95 thousand kuna on an annual level. Watch out, just on a television subscription. And no one can ask themselves how many coffees are sold, how many lunches, how many beds are sold, etc. The Ministry of Tourism has calculated that the parafiscal imposes on you by one hotel, let's say a hundred rooms if we keep in mind HRT's fee,... the communal fee, the memorial rent, the chamber contribution, the water contribution, etc., means one such hotel at the annual level for these parafiscal charges must be set aside by around 1 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, if we divide those 1 million kunas by 365 days, let's say 5, 6, 7 rooms each day have to be operational just to pay for these parafiscal intrusions. It's something you really need to think about and what you should also do in my court as soon as possible. Finally, on the other hand, man must also ask the question of what logic this Croatian radio-television should belong to at an annual level of over 1 billion kuna and to all other media on this basis perhaps 50 or 60 if so many millions of kunas. On the other hand, if the Croatian Radio Television had no such subscription, they could not do business for two months. It is right to call from the Croatian Prime Minister's Radio-Television for this blinded BMW. And did anyone talk about Mr. Sutlic? What's he saying? That Croatian radio television is harder to call, for example, from the Croatian authorities. This means that they are no more powerful than many who are sitting in this House than many ministers or some governments. Okay, that says on the other hand that we have freedom of the press, etc., that we can call whoever we want what's certainly good but it would also be good if Croatian radio-television mainly until these or some future elections were at least independent and party impartial. The rest of this bill I absolutely welcome but I think we should also talk about the chamber contribution, not that the Chamber of Commerce in the right sense is turning that word into a political party, Nadan Vidosevic. If Mr. Vidosevic thinks about going to elections, why not, my God, it's the legitimate right of everyone. If he wants to go with the Chamber of Commerce, too, let him register that chamber as a political party and then try the challenge that lies ahead. Finally, I agree with one sentence of my predecessor who said that the greatest parafiscal imposition is at this moment this interest, the variable interest. Due to changing circumstances, we see that banks are always so adjusted to these interest rates, always more clearly but always calling for these changing circumstances. However, if circumstances are variable for them and they are, they are likely to be changing circumstances for the citizens as well. However, these principles apply to banks but do not apply to citizens. All in all, I personally hold that this law is fine. To begin with, we suggest that, with these parafiscal burdens, a reduction be considered if not entirely about the abolition and the ZAMP, about the reduction and fees for this second, third, fourth or not, or I don't know what kind of television. In fact, it needs to be completely deleted, to reduce the chamber's contribution and the same way when we're already working on these changes, it might not be burning to pass some law on the revision of the subscription. What pleases me is that Mr. Byse recently stated that it is likely to be conducted and going towards lifting the television subscription for the other, third, fourth or tenth, or I don't know which TV in a hotel, which with 10% VAT will probably go a little harder unless we're ready for one budget hole not of 8 but of 20 billion kuna. But all in all, it seems to me that this law is more than logical and the only remark that would go from the IDS club would be the one regarding the communal fee. It is simply a "one right of local self-government" and I think if they were to be questioned that the functioning of the same would be largely difficult or, although it should be calculated that local self-government from some other incomes, for example, increased economic activities could accumulate funds that could be lost on this basis. But what we're going to do when we say profit tax is the full income of the state budget, not more than yesterday's local self-government. All in all, the law is absolutely logical, IDS supports it and we want to believe that it will go into another reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31606	Thank you. SDSS Club Mr. Representative Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31607	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. On behalf of the SDSS Club, I will try to present the opinion or our view of this bill. So, like my predecessor in principle, we think this bill for the SDSS club is acceptable in this situation. I think the initiative is not only politically wise but we even think it's rational and it's one of the more quality in the package of your proponent anti-recession measures that we've had here to discuss. It is true that a list of parafiscal donations could be extended, and I will ask in my presentation that certain parafiscal donations be excluded from this list at this time. We are particularly aware that the communal fee, i.e. the communal contribution, is some category which is practically the discretionary right of every local self-government, to shape it as it thinks is most acceptable and best for it. However, on the ground, we have come to know that, especially in the urban areas of the area from which I come from Eastern Slavonia, as in all cities in the Republic of Croatia and municipal fees may be disproportionately large, so we have a situation that certain suburban settlements have almost the same treatment with regard to paying the height of the municipal fee as if they are located in a nearby area of the city. So we have the same situation that young people who would like to use those benefites to get construction material and build a house simply come into doubt and think about getting into the business because of the high utility fees they have to advance before they enter into the use of these privileges. What I would say here and ask the Proposer to respect, is the fact that OKFŠ, therefore, generally useful functions of the forest that we have different thoughts and different visions, should not be in this legislative proposal right now. Why? Because OKFŠ is a special fund that is collected in the way prescribed by law and regulation at a rate of 0.007% of the total income of legal entities at the end of the year and it is then deposited to a special fund that is true in Croatian forests. However, the use of the OkFŠ is not in the function of the Croatian Forests as an institution, in direct function, therefore in direct business. Otherwise, it is called "Green Tax" in the European Union market. There is probably a reason why it is called that, and it is probably the result that this moment, regardless of the recession and the crisis that is wider, is beyond our space, and is particularly preferred in the areas of the European Union. I have to say, last year 2008, about 426 million kunas were collected on the basis of the OCFSH. of which half went somewhere around 380 she went to the woods, to resuscitate the forest in the debris area, and 339 to resuscitate the forest in the continental part. Also somewhere around 120 million kunas from the OkFŠ were spent on scientific work and the forest advisory service. What is particularly important here, where I see that the special role of the BOX is, and because of that, I am afraid that the incurring of that mass of funds then brought into question the functioning of this BOX is what was given from that demining fund somewhere around 100 million kunas, given for the protection of forests the same amount, is given for the management of private forests 50 million but more through the institutional formation of that private forest sector and is given to the most important for fire-fighting communities. Somewhere around 20 or something more than a million kuna. Therefore, the profession thinks at least what I have learned, the profession thinks that any reduction in the funds of the KEFSH would therefore incur an inflow of funds on this basis, as we propose, question the full quality of the KEFŠ's work and function. There may also be talked about that qualitative part of indulging in the forest itself, especially those endangered species such as dishes or oak locusts, etc. Therefore, if we don't have to, our suggestion is, and in the end, we support this text of the law and we will vote for it, but if we don't, it would be good if this category of ODFŠ could be left out of this list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31608	Thank you. The club of representatives of the CNS Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31609	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Realising that most likely on Friday and certainly at the moment when we are looking at a colleague of the Czech Republic to hold a vote and that the ruling majority will not support this proposal, which many very concrete, which unfortunately came from the opposition, but the fact that such proposals do not exist in the area of position, we in the Croatian People's Party club will support the proposal of colleagues from the SDP Club. Proposal for a law on the release of certain non-taxable incomes in 2009, for several reasons. First, in several discussions on other topics we have identified and together we have agreed to both the opposition and the position, that extra- budgetary impositions make it very difficult to create a new value. At the end of both the prime minister and the government of the Republic of Croatia with representatives of the Employers' Association last year in the 10th month have jointly claimed that this is something that the government needs to do with certain activities, to undertake certain activities. And the fact is, and that's also my colleague Zgrebec on behalf of the promoter very clearly said that of all these activities that we have, we have a register. So in the beautifully written text, something that we all know together on one piece of paper or a set of paper, together adapted and something that we all know together that's 12.5 billion a year. Surely there are justified revenues in these 12.5 billion, especially when I talk about local administration units, because the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not ready for the units of local administration and regional administration through decentralisation of the central budget and thus insulting their initiative and their mind, is not ready to decentralisation but on the other hand, there are needs, there are ideas, ideas that the central budget does not follow by clear criteria, follow by quite different and normally the need to introduce certain funding opportunities for its projects. So that's, that's the part of 12.5 billion who have their justification despite the difficult moment, above all, the economic situation in which we are in an unspeakable situation at the moment, but there's a part that needs to be talked about at the end of which the government has declared that it needs to be changed. But here it's been seven months, it hasn't happened much. Therefore, in this sense and also in this direction, we will support the SDP Club's proposal, I repeat that this support is here for the speaker, but that this support means the proposal sent by colleagues from the SDP Club and other clubs that support this proposal in, unfortunately, the near future, I hope that I do not have to talk about the further future, but given the overall economic moment, I think that the necessity and need of the current action is, above all, the government that is lagging behind and lagging behind. I think those concerned, who directly allow the possibility or chance to create a new value that will not benefit from this initiative. I have this proposal and the explanation of this proposal very clear, concise and not to repeat myself, I do not need to elaborate it more closely, this was done very well by my colleague Zgrebec on behalf of the promoter and colleague Jelas on behalf of the club, and even a colleague, Marić, on behalf of the HDZ Club, on many elements, gives support in the direction of the need to address it, in the direction of the need to resolve it. And I would, in addition to the already shown support of the HNS Club in this initiative, ask three questions in the end. First and foremost, here in the Assembly, perhaps based on these issues with a single dose of responsibility and consciousness, we will make it easier or decide which, whether plus or minus squeeze when we vote, which is primarily from the position of entrepreneurs, those who pay those contributions, those who are at this point in our daily need, they create a new value. And only with a new value can we meet those needs that are defined, that we discussed all day yesterday, the budget rebalance. And listening to yesterday's debate, a few people asked me last night and even today morning, listening to the many corrections of incorrect allegations yesterday, simply where the problem is, everything is fine. I think it's clouding and we don't want to recognize ourselves the reality, situation and need of emergency action in this situation, so in that sense I'm asking what is the visible benefit and purpose for the taxpayers themselves who pay this service through these extra- budget revenues that are visible to them. Secondly, what is the position, first of all, of the employers of those where the greatest responsibility is at this point, what is the position of employers and those who pay for a particular service in controlling the spending of these funds, do they have that possibility? And the fact is that these extra budget revenues are charged by the tax administration, that's a fact. Do they have that possibility? They don't. And third and last, I think, and at the same time I'm asking the government, I think I'm asking a question on behalf of all of us because the simple need and situation of the moment is like that, and that's what the government should have that attitude that we're going to act at in view of the importance of both this problem and of all the others that relate to it, given the general moment. Of the 10 measures taken by the Government, this measure is elsewhere. Of those 10 measures we obviously only have one, the rest is still... letter of intent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have budget rebalances and nothing else. In this context, my message on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club for all of us to stop competing whose and who is smarter, whose idea is smarter, let's finally get involved all together, to include all of our brains, because at this point, we all need it very badly for our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31610	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Mrs. Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31611	Thank you, Vice-President, although the Ministry of Environment Protection amended the Regulation on packaging waste in early March 2009, in such a way that the incentive compensation for packaging waste was returned to the level of EUR 0,09 to EUR 0,30 per unit of packaging, thereby defacto being part of our proposal for the release of certain non-taxable incomes in 2009 and consumed. I think that this time, however, we should talk about the burden of the economy on packaging waste but also about the losses of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, as well as the countries that are created in the field of the management of packaging waste from beverages and beverages. In other words, although we welcome the partial amendment of the Regulation on packaging waste in a way that the ministry did in early March and yet only partially consumed part of the bill we are discussing today in the SDP, we believe that there is still a whole series of options and measures that the state can facilitate the economy to overcome this extremely difficult and crisis year, and that is precisely by further amending the Regulation on packaging waste. I will remind you that manufacturers and importers of beverages and beverages The Regulation on packaging and packaging waste are bonds to pay four fees to the fund, and these compensations consisting of two fees, weight and fee per product unit, refund fees and incentive fees. Given that Croatia is in an extremely serious and economic crisis, the government and the competent ministry have sent a proposal that would relieve consumers and producers who are obliged to comply with the Regulation on packaging waste, and therefore because the amendments and additions to the packaging and packaging waste regulations of 2008 have conditional upon the presentation of all fees individually so that trade does not account for the trade margin on the same and that they may exercise the right to receive a fee of 0.15 kuna paid by the fund per bottle. They therefore propose to change the amount of compensation from 0.50 kuna to 0.30 kuna per packaging unit, i.e. Article 14. Regulation: "...because the refund is treated as a transitional item and the state and the fund has no direct benefit from it." According to the Fund's data since the application of the Regulation, which I remind you of on 1 January 2006, manufacturers and importers of drinks and beverages have placed some 2.3 billion bottles on the market of the Republic of Croatia for which compensations have been paid, and according to data, the fund has collected about 2,953 billion bottles in contrast to 650 million bottles, which are old bottles from dumps, imported bottles from neighbouring regions, multiple return of bottles, fictitious return, making new bottles to receive a return fee of 0.50 kuna. The fund paid 325 million kuna only on behalf of the refund fee. Analyzing the same data to expect is a further annual collection of about 200 million pieces of packaging units for which the fees will never be charged, which are bottles brought by tourists, imports of bottles from neighbouring regions for which the annual fund will have to pay around 100 million kuna on behalf of the refund fee, and will also accumulate losses. If the proposal is accepted for a refund amount of EUR 0.30, the fund would pay 60 million kuna for the same amount of packaging on behalf of the refund fee instead of EUR 100 million, leading to the savings of the fund on an annual basis of around 40 million kuna. I believe that by making this decision, the state would show sensitivity to the economy standard. The economy would be easier to raise funds, and the return of packaging waste would not necessarily decrease, and at present it amounts, I remind you, 130%. In particular, the grey economy and imports of bottles from neighbouring regions or Serbia and Bosnia have been reduced, which is now the case, just as individual entities would be demoted to extract money from the fund in a way that for 0.20 kunas make PET bottles that are so empty and only for this purpose produced, they sell the fund for 0.50 kuna. With this measure, the annual savings for the economy and the fund would amount to nearly 200 million kuna, of course, for the economy that does not belong in the gray zone. The second measure that would relieve the economy in this area, which is proposed by the economy, is the abolition of the incentive fee or amendment of Article 15. It's a rule book. Namely, the incentive fee, which represents a burden exclusively for packaging for drinks and beverages for the purpose of encouraging multiple use of re-use or return packaging, was justified in August 2005 by the fact that the share of plastic in municipal waste is 11% and 40% of it is PET packaging. In this respect, the reason for the introduction of such compensation was to prevent environmental pollution by throwing and packaging into inappropriate places, primarily in nature, and to encourage its reprocessing into new products. At the time, no one thought that the return of one-time packaging would be over 130% or that all these packagings would be collected and delivered to processing plants. Given that all packaging is placed on the market through a return fee of 0.50 kuna and collected, its further meaning is now asked. The economists point out that there is no research on the habits of consumers, or which consumers prefer when buying these products in Croatia. Research in Europe has shown that consumers exclusively prefer the purchase of products in single packaging. In addition, the regulation lays down national targets for the share of repackaging for other alcoholic beverages, although there is no production anywhere in the world of multiple bottles for this type of product and logically raises the question of how the manufacturer or importer will then meet them. In view of all the above circumstances, it is unrealistic to expect in 2009 to meet national targets, a 25% return packaging share compared to 2008 when these targets were 15% for the category of wine products, other alcoholic beverages, juices, other drinks, mineral, spring and table water. The assessment of the economy is that by introducing this measure, the economy would save around 20 million kuna annually. At this point, the drinking industry, according to all indicators, recorded a decline in sales and therefore the adoption of these proposals would be in favour of Croatia's sustainable development. The consequences of introducing such measures or amending the Regulation would not be an increase in retail prices, even retaining existing ones for a simple reason. In accordance with the provisions of the Regulation, trade would have to make a price correction, not retain the same retail price, thereby making a special profit. And all Croatian citizens and citizens would benefit from this, so in the SDP, we hope that in this case the government and the competent ministry will act responsibly and accept the proposals addressed from their economic circles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31612	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31613	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State. Fellow representatives. So this is another law from the SDP's limited-term anti-recession group by the end of 2009. And what does he suggest? So he suggests you don't pay the water contribution, and who pays the water contribution? It's paid by investors in construction facilities. It would be a good idea if we had something to suggest to see what would have been the consequences or the results of that. I simply don't believe that investors of construction buildings, if we release them or reduce that water contribution, will cheapen the price of apartments on the market because of that. I just don't believe it from my experience. Then cut the forest contribution by 25%. Who pays the forest contribution? It is paid by companies and the income of Croatian forests. And now that we're on the packaging fee and the packaging waste to cut by 50%, first of all, what is it intended for? It's designed to protect the environment. Two, so who's collecting that packaging waste? So he collects the poor to survive. They collect people who are socially endangered and that, in fact, what they're doing is safe, I don't believe that someone's doing it out of a hobby, I just don't think anybody's doing it out of a hobby, but pure survival needs, so now, to cut it down, I think it'd be a clean blow to that poor thing that collects this packaging in garbage cans and carries something to get it, some kind of kuna out of it. I don't think it's much of a social measure that would be commendable. As for the monumental rent to cut by 50%, we know that the monumental rents are intended to finance and maintain cultural objects. The communal again contributes to a 25% reduction. Who pays that communal contribution? So again, they're paying investors for construction facilities. Once again, I simply don't believe that to reduce that municipal contribution, they would reduce the price of apartments. Unless the SDP has that guarantee, then I'd be in favor of this proposal and support it with a little air. The contribution of Croatia to the economic chamber to decrease by 25% normally, paid by companies. Now that we've assessed this bill, I think it's a highly unrealistic proposal. It is proposed, as I said, to remove or reduce by a quarter, that is, half of a given public fee, and not to suggest how to provide replacement funds at the same time. So, nowhere did the SDP say how to secure replacement funds from what they would reduce. Not even expected improvement effects are shown to be achieved by reducing these non-taxable duties or obligations. All these revenues, I believe you know that they serve certain prescribed purposes. It is also indisputable to discuss reducing non-taxable duties, discharging the cost of the economy on this basis, but each of these sources serves for certain purposes, and I think it should be analysed one by one, and not by such a flat-rate approach. And to me, I should suggest replacement sources. So if we're proposing something to end, to cut something, to take something away from money, then we should say where it would be financed from, from which sources and from where it was taken. This related proposal, he sounds attractive, he has his populist character in any case in this section more for employers than for employees, workers, for socially endangered categories. This would be better suited to the normal Croatian employers' or employers' association. But I think this is another one of those laws that only has common packaging, and content is questionable qualities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31614	Thank you. One correction to an incorrect quote, Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31615	It is incorrect that we propose to reduce this fee for returned bottles that citizens collect and receive per bottle of 0.50 kuna. We propose to reduce that contribution, the packaging fee and the packaging waste paid by producers packing their product in such packaging, which in the last year amounted to €0.09 to 0.30 per unit of packaging, and the government has proposed that it be 33.3% higher in this year. When we wrote that law, then that amount should have been increased by 33.3% and ranged from 0.12 to 0.40 kuna per unit of packaging. Fortunately, the government gave up on it a few days ago and left the level of 2008. Well, the government didn't say where they were going to make up for that part either. So it's obvious that it wasn't such a big problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31616	At 17.26, the time for the ten-minute hearing was up. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31617	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. There is no doubt that this is a good and quality bill, but which in the very beginning, given that we live both in time and in society, and also in a country of changed and different values than they should really be, then everything that is good causes doubt. The state finally, and in terms of this bill, needs to show that it cares, that it has a soul, especially in these difficult times. In fact, we have seen the presentations of the introductory applicant, namely Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec, who spoke on behalf of the promoter that there are at least 80 types of different fees in Croatia, contributions, fees, different types of charges which as parasites have come upon an individual, but also on a legal person. And these hidden burdens, along with the already existing tax returns, represent this untaxed burden that directly reduces income. It directly reduces income. And the profits of both individual and citizen and entrepreneur. It is precisely about giving on the basis of specific regulations and there is simply everything over time, year by year an increasingly significant item both in the state budget, but thus almost even more on the budgets of the unit of local self-government. And that's why there's a chance and opportunity in these local elections if the state and this bill remain deaf, dumb and blind next to healthy eyes. This is a chance for responsible mayors, for responsible authority in the units of local self-government and regional self-government to do so now. They are normally obliged to do so, especially in these difficult times, in order for citizens to survive, to survive businesses in those units of local self-government. So this is a chance for everyone to show their responsibility at all levels. We have also heard that, from 2002 to today, even by more than 7 billion kuna, the tax has increased, or imposed this type. They even exceed profit tax revenues. Some units of local self-government have been raped so much that they also introduce burdens not only mandatory, but not in the will of local self-government units and based on positive rules to determine them. And the way they determine them remains one big question, completely untransparent and unfathomable citizen. Therefore, within the very state of this fee being introduced, different administrative bodies, compensations are introduced by both public undertakings and there are often heated discussions on the tax rate and types of taxes. Let's just remember the pre-election promise in 2003, and this pre-election promise from 2003, which was guaranteed by the prime minister with his own personal honor and word by the citizens to reduce VAT. That didn't happen until today. We, given these times of crisis, also to remind ourselves, had one commendable suggestion to really make life easier for citizens, especially, and also for our population policy, so to reduce child food tax, children's clothing, then oil, edible oil, to energy. However, everything was rejected. There was no mercy on these young people, and it would be more of a reduction in child food taxes and children's supplies in these times, especially in the face of the white plague, let's not ignore it. Often, the government likes to brag about breastfeeding, maternity, milk, etc. However, this is the most effective way of improving the home budget now, but as much so would the effects of population policy be seen very quickly. But there was no hearing. There was also talk of how they are accounted for. It is often the subject of the Consumers Association which often have observations of this kind but unfortunately never quite with success. In fact, the question arises again and again on this occasion whether a tax on property should be introduced to replace the mass of these non-taxable taxes, which are more taxed in the sense of defiance and the burden on citizens to experience them than the original taxes themselves. So, for what? First of all, at this point when even the cradles of fundamental capitalism draw attention to the real injustice produced by fundamental capitalism, neoliberalism, raged, so that we should really watch how to resuscitate the situation, so that the accounts don't stand out for those who haven't made those accounts, that they pay them. So, one tax should be introduced, a property tax, and that way those who have more would be here at the proposal, would be more participated in joint duties. Such non-taxable givings are so unfair, not only are they numerous, that they are horrifying more people physically or legally cannot bear but they are to the pain unfair because they are all paying the same regardless of their financial power, about their property. That is why these taxes are also untaxable and unfair. The problem of these non-tax revenues is therefore directly related to the quality of life and the units of local self-government with quality and municipal infrastructure but also to the attracting of investors. Each investor is already given hair on his head only to give to the state but also to the units of local self-government and such imposes are often very non-transparent or their cutting. So here is the question from where, how to suppress the abolition or reduction of these charges if the state really wants to show that it has a soul, that it cares, that it is socially sensitive. It's time to introduce, seriously consider, it's high time to introduce a property tax. Instead of four unnecessary and fiscally non-expensive property taxes that we have, for example, so far, the use of public areas, then the tax on unprocessed agricultural land, which is also one pearl over pearls. Instead of being instigated and interested in the state, so when he got it all, that only then did he bear the consequences of his own estate, he did not process his own land. Here, so once again, I suggest that you colleagues and colleagues who do most think. This is a good proposal and I don't think there's any valid reason not to accept this proposal. This proposal may have the only flaw that hasn't come before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31618	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31619	Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague who claims to be an investor, saying, "He's getting his hair up when he hears what they're up to." So he doesn't get his hair up if you explain to him where they're going, I'm talking specifically about the communal contribution. Because they usually buy land outside the infrastructure and when you add it all up, it turns out that in fact the city or the municipality must pay far more for that infrastructure than they get communal contributions. Therefore, we have really lowered the price of 30% of the municipal contributions in St. Sunday, I believe that many others have done so. I don't think the law should encourage people to do it and others to actually not help someone because it's hardly a big help, but for those indecisive it's very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31620	Then there are these potential investors who aren't exactly endowed with some hair. They're infected with hair, which doesn't mean they're not good investors. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. He's gone. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31621	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. When we talk about this law, he is definitely marked by certain things that have been happening to us in the past and, above all, by a recession that our economy has gone to one of the measures that SDP has proposed to help the economy, in order to achieve its basic tasks more successfully this year, or to make the recession as little as possible. Whoever has to bear the burden of the economy, we believe in the SDP that in this crisis year, the state needs to change certain laws, and thus these non-taxable duties, to relieve the economy as much as it needs. When we talk about the government's anti-recession measures, this is one of the anti-recession measures the government mentioned. Unfortunately, the anti-recession measures that came too late proposed about a month ago have only seen one. It is the budget rebalancing and we are not satisfied in the opposition and we see some parts of the ruling coalition are not satisfied with the budget rebalance. And this is just one measure of ten that the government has announced. The second measure by the Government was to reduce certain non-tax charges where they cited an example, such as reduction of the membership fee of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce by 25%. It's about once, let's say, a slight reduction for economic operators, or money that would thus be released to the economy. These other measures, which the Government, or non-taxable, should reduce or abolish this year, have not yet been seen. We hope to see them, because definitely the Croatian economy longs for them. And if they were necessary, you can see in the first month of this year when we have a decrease in industrial production by 14.1%, which is a record drop back in the last 15 years, when we have a 26% drop in exports and when all exporters, all those who produce and try to sell Croatian products in foreign countries, say they are simply not competitive anymore. There's a high labour price, there's a lot of tax returns, prices are up, problems in the energy sector, they're also torturing them, because we weren't ready for that energy crisis that happened to us at the beginning of the year, and it's normal for export problems to happen, and then exports are normally less than 26% in the first month. Any anti-recession policy should be stimulating. Investments should be encouraged, investments should be encouraged which will return quickly, exports should be encouraged because there is no healthy economy without exports. The crisis must not be an excuse for our indemnity. Unfortunately, we have quite often arguments that the crisis has become too much and that there may simply be nothing we can do to get out of the crisis. Some say that even Americans don't see a way out of the crisis, so how is a small Croatia going to do that? I absolutely do not need to look for an alibi and that we need certain moves to show that it is important what every individual, what every company does in Croatia to make Croatia as soon as possible of the crisis. When we look at specifically this proposal that we made, it has its own data and approximately the amount that would help the economy in this way. It is not about imaginary numbers, as my colleague Kunst said earlier, we know exactly how much and where to save and help the Croatian economy from which items. The point is that, here is the specific thing about these non-taxable gifts, water contributions are the revenues of Croatian waters. As we heard, the state boasted about it, and the government said there would be some savings in state-owned enterprises. I suppose it will be possible to avoid it, i.e. that income to Croatian waters may not be needed so much if they have managed to achieve certain savings this year. It is a compensation for packaging and packaging waste for 50% which may be the most significant revenue that will in some way help the economy this year. It's about an eye, my estimate is about 500, 600 million kuna. And on the other hand, what our hotelers often complain about in tourism is really more than great. It's about the monumental rent, where some of the money goes to the Ministry of Culture and part of the local self-government. Hotels that have to pay annually, here's a couple of examples that I've found of how much they have to do, let's say the Hotel "Baby Hook" that pays 950,000 kuna a year, it's about hotels of some in Istria that pay 800 thousand kuna. these are the significant revenues that you wanted this year and because we expect them to be competitive and maintain the level of tourism as it was in previous years, because I see all the hopes we have put into tourism that he will save us this year, and then it's time for these hotel homes to be competitive this year and to be competitive with the prices. Especially when the announcements are as they are, it is that everyone expects about 10 to 15% lower arrivals, or reservations are less than they have been in the past years. And I think it's an untaxable giving of one of the most necessary things to introduce in order to be as competitive as possible this year in tourism. And also a contribution to HGK, we've already said. It has already reduced the HGK, and I think they will be able to save it very easily this year. It is, however, about a minimum amount of around 15 million kuna which they will have less on the terms of that contribution. All together in the SDP when we were thinking about adopting this anti-recession measure, we introduced ourselves primarily to help the economy, that exports must be helped, that tourism must be helped, and we feel that we do not have time to wait for the government's measures, because they are still intended only so far at a press conference, there are no proposals at the cabinet's meeting regarding this direct input to the Croatian economy and we had to propose one such law. I think he's real and he's real, and I think all those who are going to lose revenue from these fees can do it in this year, some savings, redistribute the budget. Given that it is already in the process and budget rebalancing, these concrete measures will not leave too much of the revenue cut off, except in part of the Environmental Protection Fund. So I think, when someone gives an argument that we should have told on the other side where that money should be compensated, I think in this case these things don't stand. It's a real bill of law, and I think we can support it in this assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31622	Thank you. Ms. Representative Nada Cavlović Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31623	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So yesterday, during a debate on the rebalancing of the state budget, the finance minister spoke of other mechanisms aimed at strengthening the economy, and cited the redundancies of the economy by untaxed donations as one of the measures. And that is why, at the very beginning, I would like to remind you that this proposal for a law on the release of certain non-taxable incomes in 2009 was sent to the parliamentary procedure at the beginning of 12 months 2009. and gives the will but also the responsibility of this government as one of the anti-recession laws proposed by the SDP club could and should have been applied. However, there is nothing from the Government's proposals, and by reading the government's opinion on this proposal for a law that we are discussing today, the government is still carrying out a detailed analysis of the data contained in the register of non-taxable incomes, so I'm just a little sorry, and the basis of that analysis will draw up a proposal for rationalisation and simplification of systems in this area. The government's view suggests that the government has done nothing about non-taxable incomes, i.e. their reductions. It is important that she established a total of 245 unsuspecting revenues, established a register, and that's where she stopped. The problem of parafiscal burdens is also being warned by the Croatian Employers' Association, as it is about burdens that cannot withstand the test of economic endurance and are logically questionable. It also raises a simple question which is a visible benefit and a purpose of paying individual charges for entrepreneurs and the particular problem is that entrepreneurs do not have the possibility to control the spending of these funds they have to pay. The SDP proposal for a law now under discussion suggests reducing certain non-tax obligations paid by legal and natural persons in 2009. I'm not going to list who these are now because my colleagues in my discussions have already listed them. The main objective to achieve is to reduce these financial allocations by reducing operating costs or reducing investment costs. It is clear that Croatia is in crisis, that in recession, which is primarily reflected in the decline of economic activity, which has, among other things, the unemployment tax. In addition to other measures, this reduction should contribute to the retention of existing and the creation of new jobs. A particular problem for certain purposes such as the monumental rent, the contribution of the HGK is the basis on which they are paid, i.e. the basis is the total income of the business, therefore, regardless of the performance of the business of the entrepreneurs. So we come up with an absurd situation that entrepreneurs are showing a loss in their business because their expenses are higher than their income, there is no profit, no income, but they have to pay these pre-specified parafiscal charges. There's one more thing I'd like to say about one of the proposed duties for which a reduction is proposed. It is a communal contribution proposed by the bill by 25% in 2009. That contribution is prescribed by the Law on the municipal economy and is paid by the owner of the building particle to which the building is built, or paid by the investor. The level of the municipal contribution shall be determined by the representative body of the units of local self-government and also by its decisions, the representative body may prescribe exemption from payment of the municipal contribution. Here I will give an example of the town of Virovitica which has made a decision to exempt from paying the municipal contribution to investment in manufacturing activities in entrepreneurship zones in which I must mention invested 25 million kuna. However, the above-mentioned advantage was not granted by any entrepreneur. Whether there is a shortage of perhaps investors in production activities or something else remains unclear. Because on the other hand, we have examples in other cities that have attracted a large number of investors, such as the town of Koprivnica. Obviously, it is not enough to make a decision on liberation but also to know how to attract potential investors. Finally, it is clear that it is necessary to relieve legal and natural persons, to pay certain non-taxable charges burdened by entrepreneurs and thus to reduce the costs of business, i.e. investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31624	Correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31625	Mr. Vice President, I will correct only one incorrect allegation and the claim that no one has been released in the town of Virovitica, but it is true that only those who are precise and by the decision of the city council and released are just production professions. Therefore, the trade chains and other service activities cannot be freed from the communal contribution. And that is the basic reason and it is not true that there are no interested but only those who want to build in Virovitica have opportunities and today see that production activity is the hardest activity in the process. Therefore, this decision by the City Council was made to stimulate production activity rather than trade. And for filling industrial zones in Virovitica, there is certainly enough interested people to build and use these benefits that the city has brought.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31626	Thank you. Mr. Representative Kresimir Gulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31627	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, here I am perhaps today the only leader in the local self-government unit to discuss this bill of yours. It's weird that... The SDP proposed by the bill did not participate in the debate any of the mayors and mayors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because I believe they wouldn't support this bill because it has nothing to do with reality. Now, you see today there are no colleagues of your leaders here because they certainly disagree with this proposal that you made today. Why? So we should know first of all that such a law could be passed must be amended by a number of other laws, so that is the Law on the Community Economy, the Law on the financing of units of local self-government, the Law on the Forests, the Water Economy Act, etc., that I do not now list it. So we should change a series of other laws. What I'm trying to say is that you're colleagues, and on several occasions today, you said it was an imposition. Well, gentlemen, it's not an imposition, it's a revenue, legal income from the local self-government unit. Legal arrivals. For these revenues is the municipal council and the leadership has made decisions and these people have been elected by voters in those units of local self-government and they are intended. And with this bill of law, you would reduce the incomes of those units of local self-government. These anti-recession measures of yours we've been talking about for a few days we're only proposing to cancel and you don't suggest where you give them, you can't see from your proposals anywhere, you're proposing to abolish, I'm just going to talk about water contributions, I don't know about municipal contributions, the compensation for packaging waste, but you don't suggest anywhere where this lack of income is concerned and you've said more than 51% yourself because the income of local self-government units where to compensate for it. Even today in the debate here, it was said that we should think about abolishing the municipal fee, some obviously did not understand here in the debate that the municipal fee and the municipal contribution were not the same thing, that they were two different things. I think most of you know that communal contributions fund roads, public roads, unclassified roads in units of local self-government, to finance the arrangement of cemeteries, crematorium, to finance public lighting, to finance the arrangement of draining ditches, public areas, parks, etc. I think we should know that. This 25 percent reduction, I ask who this would apply to because linearly reducing 25% means it cannot pass such a law by the Croatian Parliament because it is within the authority of units of local self-government. I agree that maybe we should go down, think about not being stimulated by 25% and those who build villas, who build cottages, who build apartments. We need to stimulate those who build their family home new and start it. They need help. But it's on local self-government units, it's on mayors and mayors in these municipalities, not at the Croatian Parliament to discuss it. So if you were to do all this, you suggested there's 25%, and we also know, I think most of you know, and you should know if you've proposed a law like this to charge a municipal contribution per cubic meter. So you have some units of local self-government where it amounts to maybe 10 kuna per cubic, and somewhere it's 180, as much as possible by law. What it means to determine these 25% and how when it is one of the basic income units of local self-government, how to finance exactly that municipal infrastructure by which you are constantly calling... and this very infrastructure is built out of these revenues from municipal contribution and municipal compensation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in order to develop our municipalities and cities, I think it's very important that we have the means, to build roads, to build plumbing, to build sewers, to build infrastructure and to give housing opportunities, and thus to free and open business zones and entrepreneurship. I'll say something about water contributions. Water contribution is the arrival of Croatian waters. I can tell you from experience, and ask your colleagues. In the last five years in the territory of Croatia, I have been talking about this seal that I come from, from the municipality of Bistra, so it has been done for more than the last hundred years. Thanks to the water contribution's revenue, it is regulated, arranged for ten kilometers of water flow, drains that have threatened both residential and business facilities so far. With the construction of business and housing, you gentlemen are aware that large amounts of water, rain, people ask me how there is so much water in our city right now. So there's a lot of water in that grab because 50 new houses were built on that street. We have roofs, courtyards paved and these waters are in our drains and our waterways at the same time. And if we don't solve that coastal drain, gentlemen, our housing and business facilities are at risk. And I think if you know, and the information is that we have information that in Croatia we have over 21 thousand kilometers of these water streams and canals. Do you know that in Eastern and Western Slovenia, thanks to this very investment of Croatian waters over 6 million square meters of land has been demined? That's exactly why. Here's what I think. I don't think this proposal that you've put forward in any way would support any mayor or mayor, and I'm sure from your party, that I'm not going to talk about packaging waste now. So we know for ourselves how much benefits it has brought to this point since I thought in 2006 since the Regulation came into force, how well it has been done, that we have cleaned our public surfaces, the sea, the coast, our streams of various plastic bottles and everything that has been thrown away, that just since the application of the Regulations to manufacturers and citizens has been restored to a total of billions and 410 million kunas, and around 4,000 new jobs have been opened, gentlemen. Well, if I didn't speak any further what use we have of it, I think it's more worthless to talk here. Speaking of monumental rents, that's one of the incomes of local self-government units. You yourself said that 60% is the income of local self-government units, and 40% is the income of the state. Even so, they'd take the money back to the local self-government unit. But what I'm trying to say is, the Regulation has determined that the monumental rent is charged from 3 to 10 kuna per square metre. So any unit of local self-government can be reduced, it doesn't have to charge 10 kunas that are allowed by law, it can charge much less. He can charge three kunas. I'm going to tell you and I'm going to wonder what the leaders of the local self-government unit are doing to make life easier in these difficult times for our citizens. In particular, I'll say here in my Bistro how we helped entrepreneurs. In such a way that we have reduced the municipal contributions, not to the Parliament, but in the municipality we have decided that we need to help our entrepreneurs, so we have reduced the municipal contribution by 25%, but only for production activities. Not for commercials and warehouses. We also made a decision a few years ago to charge the utility fee for production activities only in the fifth year of work. So we gave them the benefit that they didn't have to pay communal compensation, as you said. Also, we made a decision, one anti-recession measure where in 2009 we freed all entrepreneurs from paying a municipal fee in Bistra. We've freed all the entrepreneurs in my community from paying communal fees. And that's how we showed here, it's not a big asset, but we've shown good will and understanding for the difficult situation. And also, when it comes to citizens, I want to say in the end that we've brought an anti-recession measure here, so for all those who get fired or end up on the stock market as we say, here's what we've prepared... Benefits so that we can free them from parts of the payment of the municipal fee, free the payments of the water, free the payment of the grave fee, co-finance the transportation of their student, their children to school and co-finance the school kitchen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, gentlemen, these are the concrete anti-recession measures that I and my headship, my council in my community brought to help our citizens. What you're proposing, gentlemen, I believe that none of yours, as I said before, of the colleagues, the mayor or the mayor would in any case support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31628	Thank you. And six replicas, the proposer. First female representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31629	You see, my colleague, in order not to leave it at the will of any mayor or mayor, whether it reduces, whether it reduces certain burdens, this should be taken care of by the state in these times. It is the task of the state to protect the weak and to force those who are deaf about it, especially in these times. You're also saying that these aren't, this is what these untaxed incomes are about, that they're no impositions, but that they're legal revenues. Yeah, that's what they're called by the letter of the law, but those by their own content and how people feel today, ask them, ask them. Ask the citizen tomorrow when you get back to your place whether it's an income or he feels like an imposition. It is true that some do not feel that they are forced, and in this it is their sociality that they are mainly determined independently of property censorship, i.e. property. And the role of the state is one good authority to protect the weaker. And we're always looking for 101 explanations how? For any law that we've proposed here as an anti-recession, you said it couldn't do it anyway, and it's an express payment for officials and tenants to pay for it, without any excess why. But whenever it takes relief from the poorest, then 1001 is why it repeats itself. That's the problem with this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31630	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Krešimir Gulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31631	Well, I must answer Mrs. Anticevic to hear you now, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić, his hair would rise and what little he has. Why? You've been telling my gentlemen all along about the decentralisation of local self-government, and now you're proposing that this law be passed by the Croatian Parliament. So let the people understand. Mrs. Anticevic, you understand that local self-government units have people who have elected citizens in the legal elections and have probably given them the mandate to decide what they will do in their municipalities. If they're not good, now's the election, so they'll be replaced. So don't say this now that such a law should be passed to the Parliament. I think we know best about this, who run cities and municipalities and we know best what suits our citizens. And all those assets that we're collecting right now, we're investing for their benefit in building infrastructure in the area where we work and live.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31632	Second replica, Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31633	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm really surprised that here, what my colleague said, people who don't run local self-government units appear, and I would only supplement my colleague that it might be very important here to say what he might not have said, and he's close to a big city like the City of Zagreb that his unit and all of our other units of local self-government that are small certainly have 30% lower and the commitments that the SDP club is looking for through this law. And simply without these incomes, the units of local self-government were left with nothing but to survive. And at the same time, through these revenues, they do what the citizens expect from both the mayor and the headship, so capital investment. And that's why I think this is another law, a bill of law that the SDP is proposing, but I'd better call it a law of advocacy to citizens who really aren't real. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31634	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Krešimir Gulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31635	Here, I'd just say I fully agree with my colleague Lucic that we don't take much time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31636	Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31637	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. But here, in fact, I have to thank my fellow Gulic for his very quality, in fact, in his debate, saying what on the one hand is the system of functioning of local self-government units, and also in his final segment he also referred to the programme of anti-recession measures. Mr. Gulic, thank you for actually being here, and once again, you have raised the question, which is necessarily imposed. Do all representatives in the Croatian Parliament know what the sources of funding are for local self-government units? For example, the City of Sibenik, when it did not have to work on anti-recession measures, offered the producers with no access to a single municipal contribution plot on the business zone, so it fully infrastructureally equipped without public compensation in the first year of business that it definitely moved to the 4th year. With the anti-recession package also making a decision where it reduced exactly what you said from 10 to 3 kuna monumental rent, i.e. for certain activities that can be carried out as the bookies and banks left at the same level with the protection of heritage, cultural and historical heritage, as well as the reduction of 10% of the business premises that the owner is using as well as the housing used by his citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31638	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Krešimir Gulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31639	Well, I agree with my colleague anyway. But what I still have to say, here's what I didn't say in my debate. There's one more ink, but it's really coercion, and that's a tributary, gentlemen. So ask yourself, what do you have in the City of Zagreb, which we have in the surrounding municipalities? Don't tell us how we should do things on the burden of local self-government, when you see it, that's what we decide. That's what we decide in local self-government units. So, here's what I suggest, I suggest you suggest you suggest that the mayor of the City of Zagreb make life easier for the citizens, ease these times of crisis, reduce their cut from 18% to 10%.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31640	Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31641	Thank you very much, Mr. Gulic. This is where we discuss today the economics-related donations. After all, the tax is one giving that goes to citizens' taxes, but you must know that in Zagreb there is no city in the Republic of Croatia that many separations of social from transportation, from kindergartens, from the money that people do not have. So pensioners to defenders, newborn children. So the citizens of the City of Zagreb, Mr Gulic, know what that money is going to be and will therefore vote again for Mayor Bandic. And on the other hand, I'd like to tell you another thing. About the monumental rent and whether she's just or not? Whether a local unit can determine the level and whether hotelers need help in cities along the coast should not be questioned. They themselves say it's too much of a burden, and for income to have, of course, prices to be better, income to local units would be higher because more tourists would come if they were competitive on the market. As for the monumental rent, she jumped almost 50 million kuna by changing the bill in 2006. So it's directly taken money from the economy and we think that in this year of course when traffic is good, when you make a lot of money maybe you should pay more but in this crisis year they should be given back. As for the actions of the state 40% you propose an amendment, we may agree to keep the units of local self-government and that these states going to the Ministry of Culture to return to the economy. We may accept it if we accept your argument. As far as our members are concerned, they all signed SDP bills so that they support them, you don't have to worry about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31642	Replicate reply Mr. Prešimir Gulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31643	Comrade Maras, I believe that it must support this proposal that I am speaking to you from the unit of local self-government that I have been running for 14 years, I know the problem of the unit of local self-government. I believe that no mayor or chief can accept that something is taken from him. You understand? We can't accept no matter who it came from. But when we talk about subsidies. ... Well, gentlemen, dear, we're all subsidizing in our area. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm talking again about your Bistro, and the ride to the students, students of free transportation have. We subsidize I don't know agriculture, artificial smelling cows, we give pensioners a Christmas certificate, etc. You speak, I agree, of the newborn children in Zagreb you give great funds. But did you ever wonder if it's fair, if you're giving someone 7 thousand kuna honestly, and maybe that one has a villa somewhere or has two villas because you always like to go back to that proposal of ours, whether we said the same thing fairly about electricity when we said that those who are weaker property will be freed. So did you do that analysis specifically in the City of Zagreb, Mr. Maras, so that maybe you don't give money where there's a big pile, so we could talk anyway. And monumental rents, so look at them in the last few years in the City of Zagreb how the facades are arranged and that finally that mockery we still have in the old Vlaška. Gordan, I grew up in Zagreb too, we had a mockery downtown. Thank God he's no longer thanks to that very income. And it can be reduced, but it still depends on the local self-government unit whether it's 3 or 10 kuna. I don't know how long it's in the City of Zagreb but I believe it's not 3 kunas, I believe it's certainly more and it can be reduced. But also in all other cities and municipalities, it can certainly be reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31644	And Madam Representative Nadica Jelash Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31645	Thank you. Your Honor, Vice President. I would like to answer to the esteemed Mr. Gulic, the head of the municipality of Bistra, to his constant question about where incomes would arise if these duties were reduced. I'll just say impose. They wouldn't make up for anything. The economy cannot be freed from the burden and at the same time imposed on it a new imposition because then we did nothing at all. So it's about discharging the economy this way because of a specific situation. It's about having a recession in Croatia, so we have a crisis. And, of course, because of that discharge, local self-government revenues will be reduced and therefore simply local self-government won't build as much as it did at normal times because it's not normal time, it's a crisis. Of course, our chiefs agree with this proposal because they know that the economy is the only one that fills their budgets and that in this particular situation, it is precisely for the reason that the economy could continue to fill the budgets. Finally, if the SDP made a bad proposal, why did the Croatian Chamber of Commerce reduce its contribution by 25% and where will the funds be raised? They'll have less, they'll have to save. And one more thing. I'm taking the opportunity to tell you about the cut. The tax is, in fact, the highest quality source of income in the local self-government unit because it remains a whole unit of local self-government, so it doesn't have to be shared with the state or county. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31646	Replicate reply Mr. Prešimir Gulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31647	Dear colleagues, I agree with the local self-government units' income in full, but also a fellow municipal contribution is the total income of local self-government units. The communal fee is the total income of local self-government units. Business rent is 60% of the income of the local self-government unit. ... I know what a cut can do. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The cut is also funded by the public and all other needs of the local self-government unit and from the communal contribution if you know, if you have read the Law on the municipal economy. On the communal economy, the law says that only means roads, cemeteries, public lighting and public areas can be financed from the contribution. ... Communal contributions. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] My colleagues, I know. The communal fee is financed by the electrical lighting spent by lighting bodies, the winter service, means road cleaning, the same road maintenance and what is part of the communal contributions. That's why I say that in any case, I do what you say is coercion. Well, it's imposed anyway. It is not an imposition of what you are saying because it is the incomes of the local self-government, and it is these infrastructure projects that are important for every municipality, that I do not repeat these are our housewives and that we can secure the economy you're talking about, then we must in any case solve the roads, and the drain, and the plumbing to ensure that they can obtain the basic infrastructure so that they can work and create new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31648	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31649	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. Well, I decided to say a few sentences after my fellow Gulic came forward because he was practically saying what the law didn't say. Just before I say something more concrete to say, the law proposes a SDP club and everyone who is chiefs and mayors within the SDP club supports this law. Don't worry about how they react to it. It's just that it's not about reducing the revenue you're talking about at the unit level of local self-government. You say you need to change certain laws. That if it were to be continuously applied to the reduction. We have told this law exactly the period during which the reduced amount of non-tax revenue will be paid in 2009. That's why in every article that speaks of an untaxed income, I haven't talked about any impositions at all, it exactly refers to the law, to the provisions of the laws that regulate that problem. He doesn't have any authority, no commissioners, no mayors, no council as far as the law is concerned. The only legislator in Croatia is the Croatian Parliament, or the Croatian Parliament, so don't react in that way. You say these are legal revenues, yes, but I was in the introduction when a register of non-taxable income was made that the government said it would. Among other things, seeing what these are obligations and burdens towards citizens and towards the Croatian economy, she said she would analyse all these non-taxable revenues, but said she would also exercise control over the introduction of new non-taxable incomes, by defining criteria and additional restrictions. You're more critical of our proposal than the government. The government is not talking in this sense, the government is not saying that additional sources should be found, because it is aware that they cannot be found, but that in 2009, it must be saved and the government says that it too is analysing, because we say that it has been over-analyzing for too long, for too long. We had a budget rebalance, didn't come with certain legal solutions to reduce such non-taxable incomes. And let me just say, as you say is being questioned, I don't know, the almost functioning of local self-government units, and all we're talking about is a reduction in local self-government is a communal contribution, not a fee, we're not touching the communal fee, we're talking about a communal contribution that's only paid for investment. If you won't have an investor in 2009, you won't have a communal contribution in your local unit and you won't have to free anyone or get a payment. As for the monumental rent, it is defined by law and in this sense the local self-government unit has the freedom to determine height. Not all monuments of culture, or monumental cores are equally valuable. That's why there's a range of 3 to 10 kuna per square metre, so within that range, a unit of local self-government can decide. However, these are strictly dedicated means and you, when you pick them, must use them deliberately. We say, if one or two facades in 2009 in such cores we won't be able to do it in 2009 because it's the year when it has to be done, or saved. And as for the water contribution, it is also one of seven sources of funding for the water economy, so only one of the 7 sources. He pays only on investments, if a man builds a house, he will pay a water contribution that now amounts to 15% of the investment after reduction. You know what it means when a man goes to build a house that before he even burys the first shovel, the first shovel of the country must be dug up on its site must pay 15% of the value of that investment in the water contribution. And you can see how the water contribution was moving. In 2005, when we financed the water economy, 754 million kuna was collected under the old law. After the adoption of the new Water Economy Fund Act in 2007, a billion and 700 million kuna were collected. Which means if we're going to cut this one out by 25%, or we're going to release only one investment source, which is the question at which level it's going to be in 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31650	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Krešimir Gulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31651	Well, all I have to do is correct an esteemed colleague who said he was an investor before he buried the shovel must pay 15% of the water contribution. Well, ma'am, do you know that, so you can't even start building until you've paid the utility contribution and the water contribution. So you're just paying for the municipal water contribution you can start building and thank God that law has been passed, colleagues and colleagues because we don't have any more problems in local self-government now. So he can't get a connection to the water or the power, or the phone or the gas until he has a building permit. We had before the wild construction, so, we had wild construction where they were building, they got all the connections, then we needed lawsuits and all kinds of inspections to get contributions, communal ones that we'd been suing for years and years. And thank God that the law was passed so that it must be paid before, so here's the help for those young people who need it, but who's building villas, apartments, etc., I think we should pay anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31652	Mr. Representative Vlatko Podnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31653	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, here I am going to have a little around the general useful functions of the forest, for the simple reason here to mention that tax under the Forest Law, a little bit about basic data of the Republic of Croatia has over 2,000 and 688 thousand forests and forest land, which is about half of the entire territory. In the forests of the Republic of Croatia there are about 400,000 cubic metres of national stock with an annual increase of over 10 million and a total of... About 7 million cc's. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Most of the forest and forest land, 70% is now somewhat and less, 75% is owned by the Republic of Croatia while other owners are private owners, i.e. forest owners. Almost 95% of the forests of the Republic of Croatia are natural forests, and as such they largely fulfil their economic, ecological and social functions, which have a significant impact on environmental protection and nature protection. In the Constitution itself, it is guaranteed that forests of general social interest and, starting with such constitutional provision, the forest profession and science are preserved by its perseverance and professional work based on scientific basis today by the preservation of Croatian forests, which are for many reasons at the very top of European forestry. A significant contribution to the preservation of our forests,... The forest law, adopted in 1990, where this concept of a common useful forest function of 0,07% was prescribed for the first time and was primarily intended for the financing of forests and forest land in the area of karst, or where not economic forests but primarily for environmental or social purposes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because the surface area of karst forests or debris is about a million and 140 thousand hectares, which is about 43% of the total surface area of the forest. In order to preserve, better said forest prevention in the area of forests, economic forest experts have just come to the realization that this particular payment would be necessary and that the amount would be maintained by the 2005 law. and the implementation of this legal provision, i.e. the provision of forest management funds, primarily forests, has been made a significant step in Croatian forestry. The fact is that over the past 17 years, how much this tax has been collected, or generally useful forest functions, that fire protection has been raised, that the forests have been erected. So there are programs with which they are mastered, according to which they are lorded in the forests in the debris, etc. For example, in 2007, a colleague named Horvath said something about it. Some 400 million kunas were collected in 2007, and this is in line with the Law on Forests, and estimated to be about 20% spent on private forest management, which is about 100 million kuna, that demining was spent around 100 million kuna, that according to the Fire Department 5% was paid, or 20 million for fire communities in the area of the karst and scientific researchers the work of 10 million kuna. With this proposal, someone immediately calculated that this is about 100 million kuna in the KEFŠ fund or Croatian forests. If the situation in the economy were normal, surely no one would think about reducing these givings. Today, things are different. Today, the economy expects any help in discharging liabilities, including these, call 100 million kunas, to reduce the economy, or the economy, must be a major step and a great help. But also for the kid who has a million-dollar income and who also has to pay those commitments, and maybe that's one month's pay for someone employed by that private or entrepreneurs. I am aware that the support of this 2009 bill in the forestry profession will cause different comments, because here I reduce income for the Croatian forests, but there is no question of one other thing, will the Croatian forests and from whom will be able to charge the rest of the 300 million kuna? Will they even have the economy to pay for it? Will the wood industry, which is now said by entrepreneurs in the wood industry, have ordered below 50%, which means reducing their income by 50%, how will the wood industry get out of the crisis by the end of the year? Who, then, if the wood industry can't, and they won't be able to pay wood assorts, then who will re-income the Croatian forests? So we're spinning in a spiral that, unfortunately, will end badly. So let's call these 100 million, and they won't be 100 million, if this law is passed, and probably not after the debate, it would be a huge help to the businessmen. I personally believe that it is not a problem to collect these we call 100 million or 0,07%, or this proposal would make it 0.0525% for the funds of the common useful functions of the forest, because Croatian forests, or by the law of 2005. The Law on Forests unfortunately provides for certain things by law, and unfortunately they are not executed, so it is likely that the Government finally passed before this Assembly, which is mandatory in accordance with Article 19. The forest law, a proposal for a forest policy strategy and a strategy, would likely, in a different way today, be discussed in general about the generally beneficial functions of the forest, i.e. that tax. Unfortunately, we didn't bring it. That forest policy and strategy. Usually, the government calls for forestry policy and a 2003 strategy and for the 2004 Wood Industry Development Strategy, which is basic because they overlap one and the other in the basic principle, which is the development of the market between forestry and wood industry. Unfortunately, this is not the case, because if the ministry and the competent ministry preferred the market, then they would probably not share a conjuncture range of 140 thousand cubic metres for the past year, without a production plan. So I think there are some other things in forestry, and above all, the adoption of a forest policy and strategy, which has already passed since the law was passed for 3 years, the Croatian Parliament should have passed nothing. Therefore, even these 100 million kunas in the Croatian forests have a reserve starting with the due debts already on ho ho, which should have been charged with normal business policy and there should be no problem with these money. I won't say the amount either, but... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31654	Thank you. Mr. Representative Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31655	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I was certain in some way that after months, we are not going to show any assurances, but to guess whether the crisis or recession came to Croatia, whether it was caused by the unhappiness or ignorance of the current government in Croatia, or whether it was an imported crisis that caused us to break the financial market that happened because of some mortgage and imaginary loans in America, hit Croatia or not. I was sure that after that legendary or famous sentence, that this country is still in bananas, finally came from the top of HDZ to acknowledge that the crisis has hit full strength and a small country like or a small economy like Croatia is and as the Croatian economy is. But it is obvious that through today's debate over a small law that concerns some small things, but also with the Budget Law, I feel that we are still not sure that the crisis in Croatia is. And that of those who should say yes, the crisis is if it is; yes, we have measures to get out of this crisis or at least stop this crisis from being overrun like a tsunami and not being confused with all of us from the political scene, but from the economy itself above all, not only by the economy of Croatia. It is obvious that this law regarding touching or reducing only in one year of some non-taxable income, whether of the state budget, was the budget of the units of local self-government, has caused one series of debates in order to put all of this at risk. I heard from representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community club, it is not there, that the proposed reduction of the water fee would endanger, in order to compromise the reduction of the forest contribution, in order to try to reduce the municipal contribution, but as one of our proposed measures has already been accepted by someone else, then it would not endanger the chamber but is said now it is unnecessary. I know that every attempt or any excuse not to accept something and to say that it is not good is good, but then it was said that 25% of the reductions for the Chamber of Commerce would also endanger the Chamber of Commerce, and in the Chamber of Commerce they heard and understood it, so they did not question that they were completely threatened. We also heard here that we were talking about a fallen economy. Of course, if the economy had fallen, then it needed help and we expected, of course, that through a package of anti-recession measures that was so pompously announced, there would be a resuscitation of that fallen economy, and that would then "fall citizenship" and all of us living from that economy, in a way, would have stood up and would no longer be on their knees. Of these measures, or intention, since these measures have not yet been seen, one intention is to relieve the economy of non-taxable duties. Now we're waiting for the Ministry of Finance, here's not even the Secretary of State, neither is he, to see which untaxed donations will be reduced by the ruling party to see how we're going to try and relieve the economy by helping them produce more and that they can invest and that we can create new jobs. It is obvious that these measures, which are now proposed by this law, together with those 17 measures, anti-recession measures that they have proposed in those other 17 laws which also concern the economy, which also concerns that citizens we all love to call upon, are rejected with indignity. I have no idea why it is, it is obvious that then somehow a man loses his will in these benches that anything, when the crisis has already been, and apparently has, suggested and helped with his humble, little knowledge that this crisis is somehow resolved or tried to resolve because the crisis is not just a crisis for HDZ, the crisis is for all of us. And we are all invited to bear this burden of crisis equally and to try this burden of crisis together and overcome even though these proposals came from the other side which is obviously not welcome in this Croatian Assembly. But I hope I don't discourage us. There are other than these four or five non-taxables, there are still plenty, 245 non-taxable incomes, so I believe by insisting on SDP to try it this way or in other ways, the crisis will be reduced or tried by that crisis to unwind, to move forward, to be heard anyway. Because I'm sure this 25% wouldn't have reduced the chamber if it hadn't heard this bill stand since the 12th month of last year in the Croatian Parliament and will come to debate. I'm sure part of these measures, if we ever see it under this point 2. Dispersion of the economy by non-taxable giving, part of these measures come from this right side as well. So I believe that every speech on this side contributes to a part of these laws that will make it easier for the fallen economy to rise from this crisis, that it is always welcome. It is also astounding when it is said to reduce non-taxable giving to one year, in this year, not forever, when it is said to be in some way incurring income. This is what we've heard is that it's an intrusion into the income of Croatian waters, forests, units of local self-government, as if these subjects are not living a crisis or they're in another country, so they're not concerned by the crisis. But also when we hit on the income of some others, for example. The elimination of 6 percent salary, it's an incursion of income. We didn't worry about how we're going to get caught in income, we didn't care because we just don't think it's, it's not an income bump, it's like that, it's gotta be because we have to fill a hole in the budget, there's no money in the budget. Everything else is incursion, and this isn't incursion in income. I don't know what I'd call it, you know, because the household functions just like the state. If you get into his income, he's got to get his expenditure somewhere. And then you know what they'll do? There won't be infrastructure programmes in the family, so it won't be sustainable if the crisis is. Because first we're going to have to do it, and first we're going to have to pay for electricity and water, and then we're going to go to some other infrastructure projects that should be in some normal times like the Pelje Bridge, like some other infrastructure revenues. It's obvious that we're not in a crisis yet and that anyone who says on this side of the assembly that we're in a crisis is not simply telling the truth. Because we don't act like we're in a crisis, because we act like it's none of your business, it doesn't touch and it's happening in Hungary, not in Croatia, because the measure and any intention to implement these measures, except there's a budget that hasn't answered the solution to this crisis in this Croatia. You on this side of the assembly won't discourage us, and I'm sure in front of this assembly, although it'll be too late because every day, every month that we don't react to that crisis, we'll pay harder and more bloodyly for it somewhere at the end when we realize we have to start solving things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31656	Thank you. Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31657	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the thing. This law of ours is conditioned by recession, and it's forecasted only for 2009. The distribution of funds, i.e. parafiscal funds, was previously discussed by colleague Jelash, and it is evident that 42% of the total amount to be left in local self-government units, 33% in extra-account funds, and 11% in the state register is charged to the total of these non-tax payments. I would actually just briefly refer to the monumental rent, i.e. part of the collected income that is strictly intended, these are strictly dedicated funds. Here, in Dubrovnik City, which is the city of the most monumental category, 523 payment bonds are recorded. The city is about 3.5 million to 4 million kuna. And now we're wondering where is this monumental rent money being spent? The issue of the deployment of these funds should also be the subject of the Committee on the Monitoring of the State of Monumental Heritage. Namely, the city council founded it. However, how it did not meet today when it was founded. We're wondering who has an insight into the distribution of money collected from the monumental rent? When asked why this committee does not meet, or this committee, the president of the city council shall transfer the ball to the head of that committee, and that head of that committee shall not answer because he does not know. However, without such concrete answers, the question arises whether these funds are really being spent? Because the answer is that most of the funds are spent for reconstruction, i.e. for Dubrovnik's Institute of Reconstruction, and the rest is spent according to competitions, or public needs in culture. There's something I need to say. Here is the city to mitigate the consequences of the winter period, i.e. winter bad business, has reduced the relief for the guests, i.e. the rent from 10 to 5%, that is commendation, but the rest remain. The rest are left with the compensation they have to pay. And to the citizens it's known that 60% goes to the city, 40% goes to the state budget. There were also proposals for various, among other things, that part of the separation is returning to investing in the maintenance of payment obligations. Maybe it'd be good to do a public competition. That way you get information and you can run for it. In fact, it would look back very briefly, because a colleague, Maras, spoke about the economy and the monumental rent. The memorial rent is actually a noose around the doors of the hotelers, in this year's recession the economy expects discharges, but we continue to impose a noose around the door and that is why our hotelers can't be competitive with the prices, and you know what happens in this year's recession with tourism and you know how much of tourism we expect. And I can finally say that we in the SDP have both these measures and other measures, other legal measures that we have proposed have shown responsibility to our citizens this year, a year of crisis in our country. And as for Mr. Columbo, who spoke of a tax that is high in the City of Zagreb, I can also say that the City of Dubrovnik has one of the biggest cuts, which is a 15% cut. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31658	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31659	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the short cut about the monumental rent, and I can see that my colleague is really very much discussing it. Can't stand not knowing where the monumental rent is, like you said. This claim is not true because all cities have this monumental rent and that is the means and, if nothing else, then at the end of each year, through the annual budget calculation, all the dedicated assets that come in as revenues are known where they went as expenditure, and so is the monumental rent in every and every detail of the colleague. In every smallest detail, you know exactly where each kuna of monumental rent went and what it was spent in. It's got to be seen. Plus, you've got excerpts, you've got balance, you've got everything. I mean, if you've ever worked in the city and you know how the local self-government unit works, how the budget works, then you wouldn't say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31660	Replica, Mr. Representative Krešimir Gulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31661	Should I tell my colleague that she asked where the memorial rent was spent? [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] So I think here, I have a law in front of me and I've been preparing for this debate today where it says so. It is explicitly prescribed in Article 114 of the Law that income from the monumental rent can be used exclusively for the protection and preservation of cultural goods. So the law is set out in Article 114. And as for the monumental rent, also colleagues, the law allows the local self-government unit to partially or completely release the means of paying the monumental rent, but must provide meaning from some other sources that compensation of 40%. So it can be 3 to 10 kuna per metre square, and you can even be for some disabled, defenders, deficiting professions, etc. you can even completely release. So I'm saying there's only a chance if there's a good will in municipalities and cities. And as far as I'm concerned, there's been a re-injectment here, an intrusion into income. It is true that these proposals for, here we are entering the incomes of the unit of local self-government, not to repeat it again because according to the Law on the municipal economy that we all know who we are in the units of local self-government, we know what exactly this law has established and what activities can be carried out in the units of local self-government. So nothing else can be financed from a communal contribution or from a communal fee, but from what is prescribed precisely by the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31662	Thanks a lot, buddy. Well, as far as the law is concerned, I know the law and I read it, I did, so the law exists, but practice is very often different than the law says. That's why I mentioned the board that exists, he didn't meet. And besides, we've seen a lot of intransparency in our city administration in practice. And that's why I was saying it would be very good to see the exact means of spending. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31663	And Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31664	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'll read a quote from the government's reply to our proposal. In September 2008. The Ministry of Finance, along with the institute, made a register. What is now done from the same explanation? The economic importance of certain tax forms is analysed primarily by the purpose of individual revenues and, in the context of the financing of certain investment activities and their importance for the current and future movement of certain economic activities and economic growth. Based on the above, the proposal to streamline the simplification of the entire system in this area will be drawn up and the rationalisation of the simplification of the non-tax revenue system will be implemented in an optimal way with regard to fiscal and economic impacts and further redistribution of citizens and the economy. It's in the document as an answer. A register was made in September, today is April. So gentlemen, the seventh month is being analyzed. The whole system is analysed because it is estimated after the register that we are irrational, that we burden citizens and the economy too much and that if we go into rationalization we will primarily worry about growth and growth rates and worry about discharge. That's what it says in this document. Now we're going back to the crisis. How do we assess the crisis in 2009? We estimate that in the 1st month we already have a growth rate of approximately minus 2%, the estimates move if we continue with the trend as it goes so that we can cross 4 index points of minus this year. What does that mean? That means there's no investment. We need to fight like bread for any investment, that simply someone invests whether it's a citizen, whether it's a small entrepreneur, whether it's a bigger investment. We need investors because there's no economic growth unless there's... created in time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's something we think we should do. From that point on, and the proposal that we've made, we're going to go first on those non-taxable contributions that are related to investments and that's a water contribution, and that's a communal contribution. So, move in any way to move into investment. We need investments. It's just necessary. Then let's go to the basics. The battle for the workplace, that's our priority. That's the government's proverb with yesterday's budget rebalancing debate. We will save the job if we disburse the businessmen as much as possible and as many of these expenses as possible if we reduce them, we will have a chance to maintain both jobs and pay. That's what we're trying to say in some way with this proposal of ours. And then we come to the greatest evil that will happen to us, which is indifference. It won't be paid. It really won't pay. If you won't, gentlemen, you know what's gonna stop paying first? It's this part of the untaxed income. And we think that this should also be an incentive measure because the state and the local environment are reducing non-tax revenues, trying in some way to encourage this smaller amount to be paid, we are trying to talk about simply trying not to have a huge number of non-executive liabilities by the economy because that's when the fees, the tight interest, the court's costs and everything that's going to build up and that's going to be hard to forgive tomorrow. It's all a fact waiting for us, which we're all aware of. In fact, we expected the government to go beyond what we suggested because we were just going on to say packaging. Why did we go to the packaging? We went to the packaging because this year it was supposed to collect 33%, which was supposed to go 33%. Here, the government gave up on it, so it almost carried out our 50% proposal because we were expecting 1.1. It's moving, and the law debate will need to be reduced. But be careful, in the past two years, whether environmental requirements related to electronic waste, related to tyres, relating to white technology, have been introduced. Gentlemen, we were obliged to coordinate with Europe. Our technology is outdated and we have had to try to push the modernisation of our industry by weight of new regulations. Is 2009 the year in which we can expect it? It's hard, it's just hard. The wages won't be able to be paid. So, we expected the government to think backwards in the area of how temporarily only for this year would make it possible for me to say to the ecologically ill-organized or non-modern industry survival only if we had a job and that we had a salary. These are some suggestions that we have tried to say that the state shows that it knows how to intervene to those who need it, primarily to entrepreneurs and industry, and then also to Croatian citizens if they want to invest, restore and spend their last savings to improve their living conditions. And on the other hand, why did we give local self-government? Well, it is evident that in these imposings or I apologize to non-tax revenues, the largest share except for the funds has a local environment, but we need to know that if we want to talk about a difficult situation, it is wrong for the mayor and the council to decide on the release and communal compensation that we are not talking about here and communal contributions, and monumental rents. They're even making a decision to cut business space leases. All this is being taken as part of an anti-recession package in the city of Rijeka. It's 15 kilometers away, Opatija. We don't have that there and there are hotelers, caterers, we have restaurants. They live, they work, they have to pay because that's where the council didn't make the decision. Could the Government accept such diversity and leave everything in the year of battle for the workplace that the eaten councilmen and mayors are thinking whether or not to go with the incentive measures of the economy. So the question remains whether we understand that the economic situation, the crisis requires intervention and that we act on everyone in all our power. So no one's slowing down, but I say every mayor who's brought this one backs this proposal. But the government's concern is whether she can let someone do it and someone can't. Let's be honest when we talk about the city and the municipalities, just a monumental rent, and then let's read the results of the State Audits. Enormous amounts are unintendedly used, non-intentional gentlemen. So it's a measure of some kind, it's all right, so if there's a cultural heritage to be preserved, but cities and municipalities need money for something else, so these funds are used for something else. The government's job at this time is to assess that the battle for the workplace is the number one priority to try to easily exploit the situation in Croatia, to make it easier for everyone to survive and fight for the workplace. Therefore, not disputing independence, though commending each individual initiative, but it is unacceptable that the craftsman in Rijeka has not only a reduction of the municipal contribution as we propose, but also the communal fees and rents, and 15 kilometers further to pay... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31665	Thank you. Two replicas, first Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31666	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You were talking about the example of Rijeka, so it encouraged me to get involved in this debate, because it is the best indicator that would happen in Croatia that the SDP government is in power, because with the proposal proposed today by the SDP, which is part of our 27-measure anti-recession package, which, of course, the HDZ majority refused, would also have the opportunity to see how the SDP government at the local level implements the decentralisation of the measures proposed by the SDP at national level. So, in Rijeka, the monumental rent decreases, but in the city of Rijeka by 10%, the lease in city spaces and an additional 10% for production activity also decreases by 10%. And not only that, in "May 3rd" today, the Rijeka headship has written off a 7 million-dollar debt. Thus, the Social Democrats do so, so the Social Democratic Authority behaves, and since Zagreb or Rijeka has been mentioned, I would also point out that 22% of the budget goes into the social programme in Zagreb, and the second city according to the social programme after the separation is Rijeka. So the two most sensitive cities in Croatia are Zagreb and Rijeka. And I'd like to remind all HDZ colleagues that there's a 6.25% cut in the river.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31667	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31668	So what I'm saying is that what's for the SDP is that we're trying to transfer it from a wide range of places to a central level. By listening to fellow representatives of individual mayors and mayors, we see that the HDZ local environment in the good part has also made such decisions. So they live with people, live with problems, and that's commendable. But what I don't understand is that as mayors and mayors, they show that by my interventions, because I'm going, these are interventions if the decisions for this year are diminished. As I would say at the local level, the mayors and councils intervene and go in favour of the citizens. And at the state level, we don't think that's necessary. And I think when there's a crisis we have to think there can be no difference between two neighboring ugly, two neighbouring municipalities. And that it's the work of the central government. So it's never clear to me that in the local environment we understand the problems, we try to solve them,...we raise the state level and we realize that it's the same problem as with us, when more what we did in the local environment we don't do at the state level. It's incomprehensible to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31669	Mr. Representative Kresimir Gulic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31670	I have to tell my colleague, Jovanovic, before I tell my colleague, I am not a Social Democrats, but in my municipality, I have reduced what you said in Rijeka three times more than what you are in Rijeka. Well, it doesn't mean that it's just you Social Democrats doing it, that we HDZs do it. That's the first one. Secondly, according to your proposal for this law, you did not calculate, most likely you did not make a projection, but I think this bill would reduce income in the kept budget and incomes of local self-government units by several billion. If we're talking about opening jobs, keeping jobs, and you'd put thousands of jobs at risk. Because even those who work in Croatian waters in the interest of local self-government reflect the water streams and channels that work in the construction of our roads, sewerage, water and complete infrastructure financed by these measures that you would abolish. So I'm telling you, tens of thousands of our citizens would be out of a job. but what is important here would be the most endangered units of local self-government of counterpart Linic, as the water contribution collected by Croatian waters of his colleague Linic is being invested and he is returning to towns and municipalities and county, meaning cities and municipalities. It's coming back to maintenance as I said water streams, canals, streams, etc. So he's back to the units of local self-government, so I think that this proposal of yours would be any case when we talk about anti-recession measures, I think he'd jeopardize even more people without a job, and investment and entrepreneurs working on those jobs would be out of their jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31671	Replica reply, MP Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31672	Dude, that's why we're mathematically different. If there is a crisis, if there are high taxes no one in Croatia will invest. And it's just that no one is going to invest, and then 100% of zero is zero. And we're trying to say, our job is to attract investors. And then 10% of 10 is one. And that's where we differ. So it's not just a battle for entrepreneurs, a battle for investors. It's a battle for income. Because you won't make your income if you're in a recession year of crisis with your huge non-taxable incomes. And that's what we say, people are fighting for investment. At a minus four index of economic growth, you will not have an investor, you must look for it by additional measures. So math says actually 100% of zero is nothing, but 10% of something is something. And when we want to say further, we have already said, the people of Croatia have 7 incomes, six incomes are not touched, and one is trying to reduce 50%. Just for once. Take a look at the plan of Croatian waters. 600 million were planned. I'm telling you it won't make $400 million. There won't be an investment. ... Oh, guys, there's not gonna be an investment. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There's your answer. ... So, a little math and try just to become aware of what -4 index growth means this year. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31673	And as the math says 0 and 0 is 2 points. One by one, zero, zero. It's just football, I guess. Final review, Proposer Ms. Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31674	I'll try in a few minutes. On behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to thank everyone who participated in this debate that was good, with additional proposals, especially the clubs that supported this proposal and gave some supplements, as did the IDS Club representative. Since an emergency procedure has been removed from this proposal, if it passes the first reading, then some of these proposals may also be accepted by the part that has been through this time since the law has actually been in the process and until its debate has actually changed, or amended. I'm glad the HDZ club didn't actually reject this proposal, because the HDZ club representative said they were in agreement with the government's opinion. And in the government's opinion, as counterpart Linic reads, the government also says it will also analyse certain measures. We just have an observation as to why the government is late with this. The government has been over-analyzing and slowing down certain adjustments in this. Let me just say, of the 245 different fees, contributions, taxis and the like listed in the register, we intervene at six. Of those 245, more than 40% are local community revenues. The six measures we propose mainly relate to the state, public enterprises and state-owned companies. Local self-government is covered by only two investment-related fees, i.e. one investment-related fees, and the other by strictly dedicated funds, and only partial income goes to local self-government. When it comes to the water contribution, the water contribution is one of seven sources of funding and relates only to the investment. And what we're trying to say if you don't have an investor, you have no income. If no one's going to invest, there's no one to calculate the water contribution. Yesterday we discussed budget rebalancing and a water contribution was planned in Croatian waters, so that one of the seven sources, with 580 million kuna. You can imagine how much investment it would take to raise 580 million kuna. It's unreal planning. But when we go to see that these non-taxable incomes only increased by two and a half times in two years, then it really has to worry us. Only in two years in two and a half times. And I'm going to tell you that just now they're Croatian waters, I'm going to repeat that, from 754 million kuna in 2006, so before the new law and the government's regulation on the financing of the water economy, they increased revenues in 2007 to a billion and 700 million kuna. Where will they find savings if this doesn't happen? This will not happen if there are no investments, not only if we release investors in 2009. It will be realised through other savings that public and state-owned companies must have. It will be saved through a different way of public procurement, through better competitions in public procurement, etc. As for packaging, the government saw that in the year 2009 it was precisely for those who dropped production and traffic that could not go with an increase of 33% and said we are going back to those fees that were in 2008. So we're glad that the government is aware, perhaps even under the influence of this law because it did this this month, and we suggested it in December, in early December. It's a memorial rental. So she has such a range that she can be from 3 kuna to 10 kuna. They bring you different things. Surely one Dubrovnik won't be able to do it with 3 kunas, but in another city there are 3 kunas quite enough. But these are strictly dedicated means that are not used for purpose. Perhaps you, fellow Gulic and a colleague who used to speak there, do so, but in many units local self-government is not doing it, and many are not doing it enough. Look at the Zagreb facades. They've been glued to these commercials for years because they're also collecting funds to rebuild the facades. So we don't cancel, we say we just cut in 2009, something we won't do in that year when that's the situation if people can't pay for it. A small hoteler said the other day that he paid 660 thousand kuna for his little hotel for a monumental rent a year. And what if he doesn't have any guests this year, where's he gonna pay for it? We have a communal contribution, as well as a water contribution. If you don't have an investor, you don't have any communal contributions. That's not your continuous income. Continued arrival is your communal fee. The only way you will charge a communal contribution is if you decide to charge it to the investor, and you will charge the one who builds the house and the one who builds the plant and the one who builds the villa. You will continue to decide how much to charge, but we suggest that only two cities in Croatia, Zagreb and Dubrovnik will do so in those gauges ranging from minimum to maximum, maximum 180 kuna per cubic meter. But you might do it, someone else won't. Here's my colleague Linic said... Don't talk to me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The state has the right to intervene in every law. All European countries and all normal states in crisis are acting that way. We can't say we don't know what to do when we don't have the money. Today, we must no longer be in debt beyond measure, but only what is the minimum of what we must. As for the contribution to the forest, we also don't really know how purposefully this contribution is used. And it's not fair how it's paid. Those who earn perhaps the smallest profit pay the most because they have a large total income. Therefore, I think the government is also aware of this problem and that in the view of the government that rejects this proposal, it is only rejected for what comes from the opposition benches. We hope that the second budget rebalancing, which we unfortunately believe will have to be very soon, will come with such a law, then we will surely support it as opposed to you colleagues who are speaking so critically of it now, far more critical than the Government has said in its opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31675	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 10 a.m. with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Relations, Mr Dragutin Lesar proposes. Secondly, the proposal for a conclusion on trade societies of special state interest is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the CNS, and then the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Cultural Councils, and amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-31-0.u31676	We move to the Proposed Law on the release of certain non-tax revenues in 2009. This was the first reading, P.Z. No. 218, Proposer: SDP representative club. The debate is closed. I am voting in line with the proposals of the parliamentary working bodies and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which reads: "The proposal for a law on the release of certain non-taxable incomes in 2009. year." Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposed conclusion was accepted by a majority vote with 78 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 49 against. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We're moving on with the session. We're going to the agenda. - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory Relations, first reading, P.Z. No. 250 Proposer: Representative Dragutin Lesar is the Proposer of Dragutin Lesar and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law apply to the adoption of this law. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mr. Dragutin Lesar is proposing this law. Here you go.
