ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27223	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good morning, everyone. We're moving on with the session. Crossing: - Report on the work of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions for 2007 and Action Plan for the improvement of the prison system is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government submitted this report pursuant to Article 6. The law on the execution of a prison sentence. The government contributed to the debate on the current state of play in the prison system and the Action Plan to improve the prison system of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the reports at the session. Does a government official want to explain the proposal? Yeah. The minister of justice, Mr. Ivan Shimonovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27224	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. I, with some discomfort, present a report on the state of the prison system for 2007. For two reasons, there's been some discomfort. One thing is that the situation in the prison system is not the best, and another reason is the discomfort in 2007 and today it is 2009. I'm going to try to remove both of the above-mentioned discomforts with this address. As far as the 2007 situation is concerned, I would like to update in oral presentation the data you received from the report, with fresh data, data relating to 2008 and even some data already relating to the situation in 2009. As for the second source of discomfort that the situation in the prison system is not well, I hope that we will break through the adoption of an action plan adopted by the Government to improve the situation in the prison system. What the key problems of the prison system are present and analysed in the 2007 report but unfortunately present today. It's primarily the overcrowding of the penitentiary. Unfortunately, at this point, it is both today and greater than it was shown in the 2007 report. We were talking about 40% overcrowding. Today she's almost 50%. At this point, we have about five thousand prisoners in our prisons and penitentiary. That's a very large number compared to our capacities. It's not a scary number for the share of the population in prisons. However, if we compare ourselves to other European countries, it is still slightly smaller. However, compared to capacity, this is indeed a problem to ensure an appropriate standard of accommodation, a standard of accommodation that is both in Croatian and international standards of 2 meters square, or 10 meters cubic per prisoner. Another problem is the unfavourable ratio between prisoners and insurance personnel, so the judicial police and other staff involved in the treatment. As for the ratio of such staff, when we talk only about the judicial police, in recent years this ratio has changed from one to two, to the ratio of one to three today. This one-on-one ratio of three does not meet security standards and will have to lead to new employment of judicial officers. However, it is not just about judicial officers, it is also about the need to hire individuals who participate in individual treatments. Also, as far as equipment is concerned, equipment is insufficient and outdated, especially security equipment and will need to be restored. We can also conclude for the 2007 reporting period that monitoring work and dealing with prisoners is not enough for now and that measures should be taken to improve. Just for the above reasons, faced with the problems of the prison system mentioned by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it adopted the Action Plan for improving the situation in the prison system. Some of these measures have a long-term character and should be implemented until 2013 to be successful, and some, of course, taking into account concerns about the situation will need to be taken into account immediately. I would briefly refer to those measures. First, as regards improving the accommodation conditions of prisoners, one measure already being taken, which is already under way, is more rational use and re-use of existing capacities. For this is the need for certain means, they are not too large and through this can be provided in fact accommodation for additional 343 prisoners. It will need to speed up building new capacities, especially a new facility built in Glina. This facility will be able to accommodate the next 420 prisoners. He should be finished and we are confident that it will be over by the month of September 2010. What's an open problem, it's something that's in the plans, but it's a big financial bite. It is the construction of a brand-new prison that needs to be built from the very beginning, from local permits to further prepare which should accommodate 500 more prisoners. 200 new employees should also be employed. Which includes the judicial police, but also the staff of the treatment, so staff of various specialities. It is also necessary to implement more systematically the lifelong education of participants in the prison system. The treatment range should be expanded and the number included in the treatments carried out in the prison system should be expanded. When and when the action plan was presented to the Justice Committee, it was mentioned that the action plan should also be completed by some financial indicators. So, all of these measures that we're talking about by 2013 are total value of about 3 hundreds of millions of kuna, with the fact that, of course, there's still a large amount of expenditure and a large sum of the largest part of building a new prison. That investment itself would be another one billion kuna. As for the purchase of security and other equipment it is already under way, these are costs that are not so large and which can be covered by current reserves. The novelty regarding the supervision and better coordination of the prison system relates to the establishment of an independent prison system surveillance body. The Republic of Croatia has assumed a legal obligation to introduce such a body by signing the Second Protocol at the Convention against Tortocra Implementation. We will now carry out this obligation and very quickly form an independent body, a national independent body that will check the situation in the Croatian prison system in accordance with international standards. It will also reorganise and strengthen the prison system administration, strengthen and improve coordination between the prison system administrations and individual prisons or penitentiary. And finally, I would like to point out the measure I consider to be the most extensive and most valuable in reforming the prison system. It is simply a concept of modernisation and a system of enforcement of sanctions in the Republic of Croatia. It's about turning towards the digestive system, according to the system of supervised freedom. Therefore, in addition to traditional categories, categories of freedom, or conditions in which persons have been imprisoned in prisons or penitentiaries, one third category, category of supervised freedom is introduced. In such situations, people will not be referred to prisons or penitentiary facilities but will be subject to enhanced supervision without being shut down. A wide range of situations where such people now go to prisons or penitentiary can be successfully avoided by introducing such a system. It will allow to reduce the number of detentions, a problem I would especially like to warn about. This time in the Republic of Croatia is determined more frequently than in other European countries. There is no real justification for this, and in this respect, appropriate arrangements have already been reached with the State Attorney's Office or the Supreme Court to act as a means of restricting detention in the Republic of Croatia to the extent to which other European states and justice are decided to take place. As for the sampling system, however, it allows for additional detention of the reduction. It is possible to determine house arrest, to oversee the person in his home, and thus to make it unnecessary for some to be brought into the prison system at all. In addition, the digestive system allows for persons who are present in the maintenance of prison sentences to return to their homes earlier but to the regime of supervised freedom. For example, to return to the status of supervised freedom and where they could be kept if they respect the conditions of supervised freedom, for example to accept regular testing of drugs or other forms of control. Finally, as regards the trial, it should be mentioned that there will be initial investment costs, that there are costs to develop the appropriate service, to obtain appropriate material and technical means, but the same should be said that the probation system is actually far cheaper for all those who are concluded to be able to transfer to the digestive system instead of prison sentences can be said that one day costs three times less than the day of persons in the classical prison system. Finally, as far as the probation system is concerned, it can be said that both economic and social and security indications point to the expansion of such a trial system. In fact, what may or may not be crucial is not just humanization of the relationship with those who are convicted of sanctions. It's about keeping society better. All international data show that persons involved in the digestive system have a lower level of relapse, so to re-enactment of criminal offences than the rest of the prison population. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27225	Thank you very much. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, Ms. Milanka Opačić, chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27226	Mr. President. If you'll excuse me, I wouldn't read the entire report, given that the majority of the conviction is a debate on the board, but I'd just like to read the two conclusions of the committee that were so unanimous. So, the first is to accept this report on the work, so on the state and work of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2007 because it's simply something that we couldn't influence more in some changes. However, we have reached a second conclusion unanimously and this is to propose to be included in the Action Plan for the improvement of the prison system in the Republic of Croatia the following measures and programmes. The first is the achievement and improvement of the spatial and communication conditions in prisons in a way acceptable to children who meet their parents in prison and accordingly adjust the waiting and inspection conditions when entering the prison area. Second, more intense psycho-social treatment of minors as well as adult perpetrators of criminal acts, especially those at the expense of children. Third, the necessary recruitment of psychologists, currently there are 19 mental health experts and other experts in the prison system with certain deadlines. Fourth, education of prison staff on child development and development needs as well as training for contact with children. Fifth, keeping records of the number and characteristics of children whose parents are in prison and contact with parents and the latest involvement of the civil sector and volunteers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27227	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Justice Committee, Ms. Anna Lovrin, President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27228	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. I read full report of the Committee on Justice, given that it is a parent committee that held a thematic session on the report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2007 with information on the current situation in the prison system and an action plan to improve the prison system of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee held the hearing as a home working body on the basis of the competences set out in Article 73. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee held a united discussion on these acts and on these documents. In his opening statement, the justice minister stressed that the debate on extremely important documents that assess the situation in the prison system is a plan to improve the system. The key problems of the prison system continue to be overcrowding, insufficient and outdated equipment, and an insufficient number of employees and tenants. The measures to be taken by the action plan relate to the reorganisation of the prison system administration, the increase of accommodation facilities and standards of prisoner accommodation, the establishment of a sampling system, new employment and education, the establishment of independence of the national observer body in accordance with European prison rules and recommendations. The Secretary of State, in his presentation, limited himself to the necessary interventions in the legislative system which primarily relate to the adoption of the Law on the Prosecution and Amendment of the Penal Code, amendments to the rules on minors, the necessary changes in the internal structure, changes in supervision, the establishment of an independent prison system surveillance body. The term of office of the Director of the Administration of the Prison System, explaining the state and operation of the prison system institutions for 2007 briefly referred to the jurisdiction of the internal establishment of the administration in whose jurisdiction the procedures for the execution of the prison sentence, the sentence of juvenile prison, the enforcement of the detention measure, the enforcement of the educational measure. The Internal Order Regulation provides for 2802 official and accommodation posts, 230 staff and subsistence staff are missing. Since 2003, the prison system has seen an increase in the number of prisoners and the figure in 2007 is 4290 prisoners. In the structure of the prisoners, as mentioned by the minister, 30.4% refers to detainees as large as in the countries with which we compared the data and therefore further measures should be taken to ensure that detention is pronounced in a small number of cases, i.e. to be shorter or to speed up court proceedings. In a general discussion, committee members welcomed the initiative to discuss this extremely important topic at the panel's thematic session, and to be an institution of the prison system. In this direction, they welcomed the participation of justice ministers and other officials and ministry officials in the work of the session. They agree that the area of work of prisons, penitentiary offices and educational institutions falls within an extremely sensitive area, that the situation in the prison system is not satisfactory but that the report gives a realistic assessment of the Ministry of Justice and sets out key problems and offers measures to improve the system through the envisaged measures of the Action Plan. The debate raised two opposing views, a minority view that the alarming situation in the prison system is supported by the presentation of a description of certain cases and from the 2007 report on the work of the Ombudsman. The majority view is that the existing state of the prison system is not alarming, it is not good, but some of its segments record improvements and the system improvement action plan also contains concrete measures to improve the situation. With regard to the increase in the number of prisoners, overcrowding of prisons and penitentiary facilities, it was noted that such a situation contributes to the existing penalty system, and it is therefore necessary to consider some penal institutes and to throw out what unnecessarily burdens the prison system. In particular, it was warned of a superlative prison that replaces the fines imposed. Since the reform of the judiciary since 2005 includes the reform of the prison system, the applicants' efforts towards increasing the accommodation capacity and standards of prisoner accommodation have been supported. The intention of normative alignment is supported. It is particularly supported by continued work to strengthen the system of testing that will drive the system away and reduce the problems of insufficient prison facilities. Better protection of the social community will be ensured, individual treatment with specific prisoners will be improved. The opinion is that by replacing the prison sentence for up to 6 months, the work for the general good on the loose covers a small number of persons and that the prison system administration should work on the cooperation of all entities involved in the process of giving and implementing alternative sanctions in order to contribute more popularising the work for the general good to the dispensation of the prison system. The action plan contains a proposal for measures and their implementation, such as the adaptation of existing facilities and the construction of new objects, the introduction of a trial of employment requires huge financial resources and a simple calculation comes up with very large amounts, so the question is how to provide additional resources with the existing debt system. The report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions lacked a final assessment of the situation with a proposal for measures to be corrected and complemented by the proposed action plan. The improvement of health care has been reported, a significant number of specialist health checks carried out in public health care have been achieved, however, conditions should be provided for the employment of the required number of doctors. The establishment of an independent observer body shall be supported in order to comply with the rules and recommendations of the European Committee, the Council of Europe. It has been warned that there is a lack of harmony with the state of the prison system when a report is compared to the public's general perception of irregularities, corruption, excesses and suggests transparent public treatment to avoid individual systems becoming a rule in public perception. The opinion is that the report does not stress to a sufficient extent the extremely stressful and responsible work of officials and inmates of the prison system. This category of employees shall only be processed through numerical indicators of the current state of employment. The report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2007, with the Action Plan for the improvement of the prison system in the Republic of Croatia, presented the following comments and suggestions. It is proposed to supplement the report and the action plan in a way that data on the number of persons with disabilities and how their rights are exercised in the prison system, in accordance with the commitments made by the Republic of Croatia under the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights and the Electorality of Persons with Disabilities. It is proposed that the Ministry of Justice consider, during the planned legislative activities, the possibility of abolishing the Supletory Penalty. It is proposed to install activities in the action plan to popularise work for the general good. It is proposed to find the possibility of better material evaluation of the medical profession, to stimulate it to work in the prison system. It is proposed to improve the role and importance of judges. It is noted that the provision coordinating the work of judges of the Republic of Croatia is almost not applicable to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. It is also noted that the report lacked an assessment of the situation of the existing prison system facilities as contained in earlier reports. After the debate was held, with 6 votes for and 3 abstentions, the Committee of Justice decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach its conclusion: The report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2007, with information on the current situation in the prison system and the Action Plan for the improvement of the prison system of the Republic of Croatia, is accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27229	Thank you. Do the other representatives of the board want to talk? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Vice-President Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27230	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with his associates. My colleagues and colleagues. We at the SDP Club hold that such a report submitted by the Government for the period from 2007 is not acceptable not only because it is an unacceptable situation in penitentiary and prison, but rather that it dramatically, alarmingly bounces away from what the Ombudsman found in his report for the same period under review. And it's something that just confuses, which is such a situation that no mitigation, not at all easing, I understand what Mr. Minister said and he just came and this is only the period for 2007 when he said he was very uncomfortable and I think all of us should be uncomfortable, because we are all together guilty, most ruling, which has brought the state of prison and penitentiary into this situation. There's no doubt that it's already an old rule, if you want to know what the state of human rights is in one country, then get into one penitentiary and one prison. It's an irrefutable truth. An equally experienced penologist, when he comes to a prison or a penitentiary, what is the state there an experienced penologist will say that such a situation is then in the state. The objective indicators that speak of this, Strasbourg is simply already flooded with lawsuits that prisoners and convicts file to the court. The headlines were arranged from time to time and here and recently, Strasbourg is terrified of Croatian prisons. The prisons have become showcases of a Yugoslav guy, somewhere around here. But how did that happen? It didn't happen overnight. First of all, a completely wrong criminal justice policy has led to such a situation. And as not everyone in society is equal, there is a great social inequality, both in prisons and in those penitentiarys, not everyone is equal. That's what the inspectors found. It's something that's alarming, something that's unbearable. The prison system is the consequence of what kind of criminal policy leads to the rule of law. So these are the results of criminal policy. Prisons are full and crowded, the public well estimates that those who should be in prison are free, and prisons are full of those who are not even there and who are burdening the system and to whom the system should react in a completely different way. So running a criminal policy like this means having a system like this, and it doesn't help, not even building new penitentiaries, not new staff, not new treatments, not new guards, not raising wages, because every one, sooner or later, will turn into what we have today. For the ruling furniture, it is not dangerous to play the creeds, whether they are the state, whether they are suppliers or workers. Economic incrimination outside the profession is the ruling set here for six years. What's been going on for six years? We had a famous 2003 novel from which the rulings draw out a few of these six years of individual legal solutions, and there is no way that economic incrimination comes in order for those who have committed such crimes to be found where they belong, i.e. In penitentiary and prisons. But that's why we've got people there who match 100 for 300 kuna. They're dangerous to our economic criminals. So, the ruling policy determines what will be found in the Penal Code, which, according to its view, is seen by its policy led by dangerous social behavior. We believe that economic incriminations are, above all, the most dangerous behaviors that threaten legal certainty, which are the most impoverished by the credentials whether they are both workers and suppliers or states. With us believers still playing the last hole, and that's something that frustrations citizens and citizens don't simply accept this situation, and they are deeply convinced that there are no people in prisons who need to be found or can be found in a system like this, and the prisons are full and full. And the police have good statistics, and the State's Attorney's Office has good statistics. A whole repressive system that simply atrophied with this kind of criminal justice policy. He got in the widest, but he lost in the depths. In all meaningful systems, criminal law is reserved for the most difficult forms of social unacceptable behaviour. It's not like that here. Mr. Minister's joyful statement that he formed the group, the task force here to amend the Penal Code that economic incrimination will come to order. But for six years, we lost to it. We lost six years. So there comes a time when the last wave of old will cover up all those illegal behaviours that have deeply frustrated the Croatian people, Croatian citizens for a long period almost the same as the aggression on Croatia. In the annual report of the state's attorney every year, a sentence that reads like this is repeated. We do not have adequate legislation so that we can sanction economic crime in an adequate way. Furthermore, our incriminations remain from the Socialist era and are not adequate for new business conditions. So, the wrong criminal justice policy for this government as soon as it came into the position of government, it banned cloning, and it abolished how the novel was abolished there was no speech to sanction economic crime. So it's absurd. We are forbidden something that cannot be done, and what happened, which is still going on and on and on the streets, is not dangerous. I agree, Mr. President, that's God save it, but that's right. Here, further all these years, there has been no adequate investment in the prison system. So the prison system needs to be constantly invested and these are huge funds, especially since it is an increasing number of prisoners with this kind of criminal policy and punishment. Also, a complete politicisation of the prison system has been re-run. Prison was suspended on the execution of a prison sentence that we were recognized for in Europe. Newspapers are numerous where the European Commission praised us for having a prison system and as we intended, in 2002, 2003 to reform the prison system according to the most modern standards. Many countries in transition have copied our system. What then began to happen when the managers, therefore prison managers and penitentiary officers who came to the workplaces in the competition and the director came to the competition, the director of the prison system came to the competition, and we do not have a director in this difficult situation. We've got V.D. The director of Mr. Michozzi, who's from the prison system. For a year and a half people were V.D. managers. For a year and a half, the ministry hasn't called a competition. Meanwhile, the ministry, i.e. the government proposed and the law was mostly adopted. The law was amended so that all the qualifications and skills required were no longer required. It was enough to be a high-tech cook and not one day in the prison system. Is such a person similar and can even run such an institution as a prison and a penitentiary? People here are examples in Pozega, a person, so to what extent this politicization went. There are two people in the system. Although a magistrate by some of his references and knowledge of the system should have had an advantage, it doesn't matter. It was determined to be another colleague. But she also got an assessment that it was about quality candidates. When she reports to the next competition, she's the only candidate. And then what happens? It cancels the ad, repeats the ad. Well, you see, that kind of behavior has led to, and the good part is the cause of this, too. That shouldn't happen. One smart government of such people should pray for an ad. Such people need a system, but they're obviously not passive in love with the government, or at least they're not. Maybe they did, didn't they, but they didn't manifest, they did professionally, and they did their job. And that can't happen. This is one situation found by a public defender in prisons and penitentiary, so that the sick lie with the healthy, that a large number of hepatitis patients, that the inability of capacity is such as to separate such persons, that even younger people support punishment with experienced criminals and thus those who are primarily delinquent experience criminal infection and such a type in prisons and penitentiaries. In fact, the inability and lack of space reduced all opportunities for resociation and eventually the punishment lost all meaning. The punishment must also be brought up. It's not just revenge, because it can give birth after the punishment, it can only give birth to the increased danger of such a delinquent. So, in this situation, Mr. Minister, when you say it's not good, it's still a euphemism because Mr. Attorney General says our prison system is a serious security issue for the state. So it's no longer a security issue between prisoners and those who guard them because it's become a big problem, but it's a problem for citizens, for the state, to break in, to get out, to keep them in these conditions. That's why the increased number of fugitives that has been unmarked so far. It's precisely from this situation, for this reason, namely such impossible, almost impossible working conditions. The places you served for, which you were for, so I would say, even for one living room, they served all the prisoners anyway. So now there's these places, so something bigger than the cells themselves, now they're turned into dorms. In such conditions, only anger is born, dangers and those are born, I say the primary delinquents who were first in the system to become criminals again. That's why it's no wonder that the people who once closed the door, opened the door to freedom, are coming soon because they're infected with the prison system. Therefore, we need to listen very carefully to what the Ombudsman said about detecting problems and then answering them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27231	Thank you very much. I'm obliged to give notice to the Parliament, I think this notice is relevant. Namely, television broadcasts the World Skiing Championship, not the Parliament. I say this for moderation in the debate because I hope so, and I'll let you know when it starts to transmit so that you can do it again. Otherwise my personal opinion is that each exaggeration actually refers to the reduced credibility and conviction of what is said. So, the exaggeration is in reverse with that, and here we've heard even the charges and the convictions that some should go in, some to get out, and the judicial system, and to clarify, forms the court, the prosecution and the defense. It's very important to know that it's not just the court and the D.A.'s office, but there's also a defense. Thank you very much. Let's move on. The correction was made by Mrs. Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27232	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Namely, there are a number of incorrect allegations, but what I've read, so I'm going to correct a colleague who said Strasbourg is terrible with a rock in prison. From the documents available to me, I really couldn't conclude it, especially when I was reading women's documents in prison where really Croatia doesn't bounce from other European countries, so I would ask my colleague to specify exactly how to read it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27233	Thank you. Correction, Mrs. Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27234	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here, again in sequence, a series of incorrect allegations I'm going to limit myself to two. So, at first, Mrs Anticevic said that this government has been pulling all incriminating for economic crime for six years from criminal law. So it's just not true. It was precisely in the term of the last government that the catalog of jump crimes was expanded precisely for the act of abuse of positions and powers so that the perpetrators of these crimes could be more effectively combated, and all the incriminations of economic crime contained current criminal law. And another inaccuracy, so there's an unmarked number of fugitives. It is simply incorrect because each of the fellow MPs can open a report on the prison system and see that there has been no escape from the closed system, and that the number of fugitives by abuse of convenience has been reduced by 40%.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27235	Thank you. You're not right either, ma'am, because you said that this government has been doing it for six years, this government is five years old, so it's only considered critical.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27236	No, I said this power, that's what Mrs. Prosecution said. I quoted Mrs. Anticevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27237	Thank you. It's on behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27238	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. We are today discussing the report on the state and operation of prison penitentiary and educational prisons for 2007 with information on the current situation in prisons and the action plan. I can also express dissatisfaction, and Mr. Minister said the discomfort because we are considering the report on the state of the prison and the penitentiary for 2007, which is not only the case with this report, but also with a number of other reports from other areas. But in this case, here's the government repairing the situation, so it points out as an addendum to the report and information on the current situation in the prison system with the Action Plan for the improvement of the prison system in the Republic of Croatia. Both the 2007 report as well as the information on the current situation, but also the report by the occupiers say that the situation in prisons and penitentiarys is not satisfactory, but this situation in all these reports turns out that this situation is not alarming, that the situation is not as often heard in some catastrophic statements. Well, here, and just before we heard that everyone in prison should be out there, and everyone out there in prison, so I really don't know what our courts are, based on what and how they judge, or what the Supreme Court does. A report by the attorney general says the number of complaints in 2007 compared to 2006 is a decline. From the very report of the Advocates who, of course, when read better, speak the same thing as the Government's report on the situation in penitentiary and prisons, only in one other way and another methodology. So it's common in these reports that the main problem in the prison system is overcrowding. The main number of complaints injuries to the public defender also results in overcrowding, i.e. insufficient or inadequate medical care. An exceptional number of complaints against the vehicular prosecutor stemmed from his own report is that he showed special care and attention to the prison system, so he visited almost all the penitentiary facilities in 2005. For many years, however, Croatia has been facing the fact of an increase in the number of prisoners, which does not follow a sufficient increase in prison capacity. And as we've heard, it's not a percentage number compared to the population of people who are in prison, it's a problem of missing capacity. But with this pain of overcrowding of prison, the rest of Europe is struggling, thus the representative of the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhumane or Demeaning Treatment or Penalty, says the overcrowding of prisons is everywhere in Europe. We can also see this from the data on the convictions and proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights, where Croatia does not bounce from other European countries by the number of proceedings and by those convicted in violation of the rights of prisoners. But why is the situation so that the report can be read and what is being done by the Government and the Ministry of Justice and the Department of the Prison System in that field? The report shows that funds for capital building in 2007 have increased seemingly 11 times since the previous 2006. So, from a million kunas in 2006 to 11 million in 2007, and these funds are systematically increasing, which is set at 25 million in the 2008 budget. Of course, it's not enough to solve the capacity problem completely either. Why? Because the initial amount in 2006 was small. However, the shift resulted in an increase in capacity in 2007 by 258 places. Of course not enough, since the number of prisoners has increased by 350 at the same time. In view of the further trend in increasing the number of prisoners in 2008 for a further 450 compared to 2007, further measures and further efforts are needed. A special lack is felt under closed conditions. The proposed action plan is therefore supported, with the exception of the construction of new capacities already envisaged by the Action Plan with the reform of the judiciary adopted by the Croatian Government in June 2008, which envisions building new capacities and new prisons with a deadline of 2012 where the value is estimated to be around 950 million kuna. However, as a short-term measure, it also welcomes the rationalisation of the use and re-use of existing capacities that the government and the Ministry of Justice foresee to increase capacity by 343 places in prisons. As for the state of security, which, with the great efforts of all prison system officials, is maintained at a satisfactory level, a constant rise has been observed since 2001 in the unfavourable relationship of the number of prisoners to the number of judicial police officers. From 2001 to 2007, this relationship increased from 1.95 to 2.81. Despite significant improvements, the increase and positive shifts in 2007 when a new 171 judicial officer was admitted, almost filling all the systematiced jobs continue to be seen in the absence of officials and tenants due to a further increase in the number of prisoners. Nevertheless, the security situation in the penitentiary and prisons is assessed well, as in 2007, according to the report, there has been no escape from closed conditions or escape during implementation, and nearly 40% compared to the previous year, it has been reduced by escape by abuse of convenience or from open and semi-open conditions in which cases more than 80% of such refugees, independently and voluntarily returned. Also, the 2007 report shows further progress in the education of prison officials with special treatment of specific groups of prisoners in the prevention of suicide, communication skills, treatment of alcohol and drug addicts, PTSD patients, the resolution of incident situations, etc. Because the resociation and prevention of relapses can only be carried out through specific treatment and work with individual groups of prisoners. Also in 2007 it is significantly equipped and renovated and rolling stock and equipment, but as we see from the report on the current state still insufficient. Finally, we are very positive about the proposed measures of the action plan, which envisions further shifts in security and capacity building, increasing the number of employees, obtaining equipment in order to ensure the security situation, and in particular further work on probation or supervised freedom in the framework of the project to support the establishment of testing in the Republic of Croatia, and its further development and establishment as one of the good measures to address the overcrowding of prisons with less resources than would be necessary to build additional prison facilities, as well as to modernise the criminal justice system. In this regard, in accordance with the measures provided for in the Action Plan on Justice Reform in relation to the normative activity, we here in the Assembly expect very quickly in the legislative procedure of the Law on Prosecution, as well as the Law on the exercise of criminal sanctions and measures imposed on minors of criminal offences, and we also suggest that we continue to work on the systematic implementation of the Institute of Labour on General Goods which is already quite implemented but could be more. And also, we suggest the adoption of the Labour Act for the general good as a substitute for a prison sentence in the event of criminal proceedings. Finally, the Croatian Democratic Community will support the adoption of the Report on the State and Labour of Penalties, Prisons and Educational Institutions for 2007 with information on the current state of play in the prison system and the Action Plan for the improvement of the prison system in the Republic of Croatia in line with the budgetary opportunities as well as organisational measures to improve the situation in the prison system, as this also systematically implements the already adopted action plan with the judicial reform strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27239	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS, Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27240	Then we'll greet the audience first, then you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, dear gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, we see from these reports that the prison system isn't cheap, that it's not perfect, but it's not even cheap. It stands at an annual level at half a billion kuna. More specifically, according to this data, 470 million kuna. In 2007, 2,000 572 workers were employed in the prison system and there were 4000 290 prisoners in prisons. This statistic we have here shows that in 2007, there were 230 employees missing in prisons, but now he's asking himself, "Is that so?" Here on page 4, it is said that 13 of them are missing in the Department of the Protection of Prisoners, Health Protection, and that is certainly the problem. The Department of Labour and the professional education of prisoners is missing 73 people, and that's the problem. The insurance department can say that it's relatively well filled in a thousand 531 is by systematicization and total is a thousand 526. There are only five employees missing. While in the management department, I don't think it's a priority for us to fill these people today, let's say. So, one more time. The Security Department is missing five employees. That's what needs to be completed urgently, but it says the same way that the prison system should be well secured according to that logic. That's why some of the fugitives that have been going on lately must be surprised. It's been before, it's for sure and it's going to be, but it's far more strange that with almost 100 percent of the security service in prisons you have drugs, freedom can be said, more than on the street. And then a man asks himself if it has to be so. It's just a sign that something in that prison system isn't working. I'm saying it's not as much trouble running away as I'm talking about what I'm talking about. What's even worse or just as bad are these spectacular court announcements of "maestro" and then even more spectacular acquittals from one "maester" to also say maestro fiasco. And indeed, because of one roast or one trip to Monte Carlo, someone must end up in custody for 12, 14, 16 months. The same thing is, we all know that, with former Minister Herak and so on. The man was then released, rehabilitated, but what are you going to do? Your life is ruined, your family is ruined, and I'm not counting any further. Such games, I dare say, the State's Attorney's Office are disabling the credibility of the state. They question confidence in the state and the state usurps itself the right to play with someone's integrity and the legal system then we can say turns into a cartoon. These data are interesting, too, "Closed included in clubs of treated addicts during 2007, now I don't know if I can quote everything, "the purpose of security measures as a criminal factor of crime is to remove the dangers and conditions that allow or encourage the perpetrators of criminal acts because of the state of reduction of numbering" etc., so it's about treatment and so on. I repeat once again, a drug addict should come back from prison as the one behind whom this tragedy is, not that our prisoners are on drugs how to express themselves in prison. He's doing drugs in prison, it's my court, he can only smuggle in with guards, not without. At least that's what I think, I don't know, let someone deny me. But what we will do when we have such a prison system, when convicts say there are prison war crimes institutions going away whenever they want, who have time to conclude a marriage or whose prison guards are guarding and washing a car, is giving them gasoline because why would someone decod themselves when they go on leave such little things. Now there's a question of how to restore trust in the system. I said, the prison system is filled with guards, the missing doctors, it's an absolute problem and it needs to be solved but it shouldn't be a problem that there's no such thing as a proper number of administrative staff. On page 38, there is talk of the work of prisoners, and then they are said to be employed as followed by 565 in a prison workshop on moving technical, physical affairs 869, outside the penitentiary 60, in the trade societies of Lipovica and Orljaj them 18, etc. There's a question why someone wouldn't work in prison. Well, not all of them are convicted of political delicacy or a part of their opinion, so someone should pay for their maintenance. A total of these 4000 290 prisoners for all of them a thousand 512. That's 37.43%, that's incomprehensible. I agree that we need to find funds for new squares. I also agree that at this point, we do not have adequate conditions in prisons, but we also do not have adequate conditions in the vast majority of our hospitals, so I have such an impression in this country that we are more talking about prisons than hospitals. If we had built hospitals and prisons instead of these grand halls, we could have had more humane conditions in both hospitals and prisons, even though instead of hospitals and prisons, I would always normally opt for hospitals. However, it is clear that prisoners in my court should be more involved in the work. On this side, between the other 40, we're talking about a state of security here. However, what is most tragic that no one has ever talked about in this report is that five prisoners in 2007 committed suicide, more specifically suicide. Clearly, this can never be completely prevented, but I think that future debates should be described in what circumstances you have happened and all these cases should be listed, taxed, and also entered. The prison system as we have it I'm sure it can get a passing grade, but as it's possible not to replace it and Petraca, for example, moves from Remetinca to Pula with an explanation for his safety. Well, that's just an absurd explanation. So it turns out they're closing up in some of the cities run by prisoners, not the principals appointed there by the Department of Justice. Because if that weren't the case, then it wouldn't have happened if, say, prostitutes were brought to prison, that they could be smuggling kilos and kilos of heroin or cocaine and nobody would say anything about it. Prostitutes normally visit some prisons, do a clean job, and maybe that belongs to some psycho as they say physical treatment and then nothing to anyone. It's happening again. But everything began to be talked about, and there is at least a little truth in every such story, and it is a good thing that it does not stop afterwards. Maybe you should also put this naked island into some function without being harassed there as it seemed in '48. Or '58. but in order to clearly restore the capacity, I joke, but before preserving the property of the country of Croatia that is being destroyed, alienated, I do not know how to stretch out in all possible ways and nothing to anyone. So much when we talk about the work of those prisons, we might be able to rebuild the island in some way. And just before I heard it here in the benches one original suggestion, that if someone didn't know how to put these arenas into operation, maybe temporarily until they held large competitions could turn them into prisons. As far as the report itself is concerned, the IDS will clearly support this report. What is also interesting, he mentioned just before the minister said that by 2012, nearly one billion kuna should be provided by the action plan for the construction of the penitentiary in order to solve the problem in full, meaning at an annual level about 400 million kuna. Whether Croatia has money for something like this, clearly there is no, no for pensioners of the second pillar, let alone for prisons. Capital, i.e. The foreign-owned banks must have broken the idea that those from the second pillar return to the first, which is clearly logical, because large-scale capital controls foreign-owned banks, these are controlled by pension funds and these are no longer buying shares, privatised companies, with money from the poor. And the media are also privatized. They're all fine and the savings aren't much and they're gonna get worse. And it's going to be bad for these young people who are up there, as they say to the stage, the gallery, it doesn't matter. And it's not true that those who have fewer pensions lose more, the most lose those who pay the most in that second column, etc. But I don't want to talk about it right now. But I will say that there will be no happiness in Croatia until the revision of conversion and privatisation is carried out because all evil in some way has come out of it. I hear, Mr. Vice President, that in England, private partnerships are being built by the penitentiary. [[Aggressor: On the subject, on the subject!]] It is good that no one has come to such a brilliant idea in the Republic of Croatia yet, so let us not repeat what we are, or what happened to us with the Zagreb arena or Split, however, an investment of 640 million kuna, eventually through this public private partnership will grow to a billion 850 million kuna. What I clearly stand for is this house arrest and not having someone in custody spend, I don't know, 12, 14, 16 months or more. But let's let it go now, that's another topic, as far as this IDS report is concerned, clearly supports it. We advocate as much humane conditions as possible in prisons, but I will say one more time, between hospitals and prisons, the opportunity in hospitals and prisons, at least at the IDS club, will always be determined to fix the conditions in our hospitals first.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27241	Thank you. Two corrections. Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27242	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's Agent Cain said that prisoners convicted of war crimes are going on vacations, walking as they please, it's just not true. Prisoners all convicted of any criminal offence use benefits in accordance with the Penal Code and sublegal acts on the use of convenience. And I must say that just in the past term, the government has changed the law in a way that it has allowed the state's attorney's office to also file a complaint about a solution to the judge's execution. Likewise, it was adopted in this mandate, the minister adopted a new rule on the use of convenience for the sake of maximum transparency in approval. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27243	And another correction, Mr. Representative Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27244	Mr. Vice President, this exposure of dear colleague Cain simply lurks inaccuracy, inconsistencies. Although it was useful to learn that he solved some of his life's dilemmas, prisons, or hospitals, he chose a hospital, it's his right. But I'm obliged to correct the incorrect allegations that, he said, it's easier to get drugs in prison than on the street. A few years ago, he said that about the Croatian Army. As the colleague continued, we'll find out maybe this whiskey house is some kind of dealership. That's just not true! It is not possible from an individual case, as unauthorized, socially unacceptable, to create one general picture of a Croatian social institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27245	And the third correction, Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27246	Mr. Vice President, I'm sorry, but I didn't raise the plate to correct the incorrect allegations, I did. A colleague of Cain injured Article 210 of our Rules of Procedure because in his discussion, he was, in effect, the least involved in the subject that we should discuss. He's, uh, almost there, I expected him to return to World War II. And I would ask him here in this High House not to return to the themes of the Golog island, because you insult the families of many who remain in one negative form and memory without talking about any other topics you've talked about. Well, this isn't a topic here today to talk about neither the second pillar, nor corruption, I don't know what to do. Here we are talking about a topic that has its exact place, Mr. Cain. You're constantly breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27247	I warned him. I warned him to stick to the subject. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27248	Mr. Vice President, distinguished government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. I will try to shorten my exposure, not repeat myself where colleagues have already warned of certain shortcomings, and to warn of what has not been touched so far. I am pleased that the minister himself noticed the inability to analyse the situation in the prison system in 2009, it is absolutely deplaced. But what we must say in front of the HNS Club, we would like to commend the minister and his associates that they have prepared for us an additional material with an overview of the current state and with an action plan pro futuro which is very good and very correct. But I hope that, Mr. Vice President, even though that supplemental material is not on the agenda, it is understood that we can discuss it. Here I go in order to touch some elements...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27249	What, I'm sorry? What material didn't I understand?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27250	This action plan. He's not on the agenda. We have a report for the year 2007. It's been added, but it's not on the agenda. [[Intruder: He's added.]] So you won't correct me, I hope. So we have one supplemental material, but it's not on the agenda...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27251	No way, it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27252	Yeah, I don't know if he did. Here, let me now, look at what the headline of the agenda looks like. Let's start by looking at the officers. It is not only prisoners who depend on the functioning of the system, but also clearly officials. So far, we've only talked about numbers, lack of employees, but no one's tried to look back on why these people are very often sick. Look how often you get sick. Over 1,000 employees were in the year we analyzed on sick leave. That's certainly not good. I'm afraid I have to say that it's similar in other public services. I tried two or three years ago in the Primorje-Gorski County in one day to ask how many of those days were officials on sick leave. And unfortunately, the number of people who were on sick leave was 20%. So we have to ask here whether these are working conditions, whether they're human relationships, whether they're wages, so people have to go to some extra activities to deal with. That's not good. So not only do we have a lack of people, but we have people who are very often on sick leave. Then, responsibility for the violation of official duty. It is not a negligible number of those against whom certain procedures are clearly being conducted. What is the procedure of these people's admissions, by what criteria are these people received? This should also ask a question and try to answer that question. We didn't do that. The standard of accommodation was word enough, I'll skip that part. As far as health services are concerned and their functioning in the prison system, as a doctor, I must say that I am appalled by what I read, that this is absolutely not good. A colleague, Anticevic, warned of some diseases, mentioned hepatitis among other things. I, as a doctor, will add, hepatitis A occurs due to poor hygiene conditions, hepatitis B most often due to intravenous drug intake. My colleagues and colleagues, choose as nice as possible, which is better. Inmate education. Every third prisoner interrupts his education while serving his sentence. Why? We didn't get an answer. It was about the financial report or the financial part of the report, so I'll move on. About this supplemental material, page 3. "Representation of the increase in the number of prisoners." My colleagues and colleagues, no one said anything about it. In 8 years, the number of people sentenced to prison has increased by 80% in the Republic of Croatia. My colleagues and colleagues, what is happening in Croatian society? 80% increase in just eight years. I'm appalled by that data. My colleagues and colleagues, now look at the crimes that people serve prison sentences for. Of the 17 groups shown here, 75% of those who serve a prison sentence fall into three groups. Life and body penalties 20%, against property 34%, values protected by international law 21%. So 75% in those three groups. Against life and body, therefore one great aggression, an increase in aggression in society. Why? We didn't get an answer. Against property, there's a huge increase in the number of crimes. So get to certain values past work. Is that a sign of an absolute moral crisis of society? We didn't get an answer. That, colleagues and colleagues, is not good. We have to read reports like this between the lines. We have to take measures not to do it again, to reduce these indicators that we have here, because what we have is absolutely not good. We at the HNS Club will support the action plan and agree with it. We also agree with the conclusion above all that it is necessary to bring the criminal law of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union as quickly as possible, that the conditions of enforcement of the prison should be improved, that one national independent observer body should be introduced in accordance with the proposal of the Council of Europe to monitor the implementation of all these measures. We think it's very good and it needs to come up, to come up with a conceptual modernisation of the way in which you serve your sentence. Therefore, here is our support for what is promised to do, of course we expect that this body that will be formed and that will observe the implementation of these measures will be formed as soon as possible to actually come to terms with all these promises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27253	Thank you. Individual debate, Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27254	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, I'm personally in the dilemma of what we're discussing today. counterpart Doric also said the action plan, i.e. the updated information on the state of play in the prison system is not a special item on the agenda. We received it as a contribution to the report on the state and operation of the penitentiary for 2007. But it doesn't seem to have much to do with each other. In the beginning of 2009, we are discussing something that was happening, or a report that refers to 2007. And personally, I find it almost impeccable to discuss this report, because in the last year, however, some things happened that could simply give an assessment of both the situation in the work of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions, even for this year 2007. Well, we're last year, there's been a minister's shift. We have a new minister. There has also been a shift from the director of the prison system, and it is my assessment that this House should give both a negative assessment and a one-off report, even in that part of what is being said about the action plan, i.e. the current state of the prison system. Or we've already said it, we've all been together and we've given that negative assessment. Just a report on the work of penitentiary, prison and educational institutions actually doesn't know what to say except that it's one set of clean statistics. So something that we can possibly compare to a year before or before, and that actually shows that we've been getting statistics like that for years now. We have been discussing these reports for years in a row. We always establish the same thing, and what we establish can be said in one sentence, that we have an extra prisoner and everything else we have is missing. We've got a shortage of equipment, we've got a shortage of employees, employees of professionals. We've got a lack of space, we've got a lack of equipment, we've got a shortage of everything except a surplus and a huge surplus of prisoners. But it's not since yesterday. It's years old, it's been showing up a few years in a row. And what is now proposed in the action plan, in fact, we have received promises every year very similar to what it says in this action plan about what we should do, that we need to hire a number of employees, civil servants and tenants, that we have to build a new prison, that we have to expand certain spaces, that we have to get equipment, that we have to get this, that we have to get this, that we have to get that. And this year, through the proposed action plan, we have to do this, and at the same time you haven't delivered the deadlines when you're going to do it. This year? My colleagues and colleagues, you don't think everything inside is going to be done, or that we have money in the budget or that it's going to be in the budget tomorrow, to do it all these years. If we don't do it this year, when are we gonna do it? What are the deadlines? What are you going to do right now, urgently, promptically? What's going to be done next year, some behind, etc.? The action plan is working on some kind of work. So we can say that we all agree on what's inside, because we're aware of everything we should do. But if you haven't set exactly the deadlines and means of funding every year, then unfortunately, I'm afraid there won't be anything left but wishes. When we talk about the functioning of the prison system, then today, during this debate, we cannot and cannot talk about the abuses of that prison system. I've already said, in the meantime, there's been a minister's shift, there's been a shift from the director of the prison system. So, you should say something is rotten when it comes to the prison system. In addition, it has been shown in recent months when all irregularities that have been supported by the greatest peak of those responsible for the prison system have actually emerged. So today we should seem to be talking about privileged, less or more privileged prisoners, privileged permits, vacations, dates, walks through Zagreb's cave or licking ice cream in malls. And we should talk about this today, because this report applies to 2007, and don't tell me that these things didn't happen in 2007. There's not a word about it in this report. There's not even in that addition to the current state of the prison system, so that's something I expect if we get anything else in the 2008 report. I don't know when we'll get it, though. We may get it very quickly, but I'm afraid it's actually going to be declassified to talk about it when in the meantime we're already talking about the current situation and we're talking about an action plan for the next period. But when it comes to this action plan, I just want to ask one more question, maybe it can be answered. The Action Plan proposes the establishment of an independent prison system surveillance body. In fact, an undefined formulation is that members of such a body will be appointed by persons with confirmed professional qualities and reputation in the field of protection of human rights. Otherwise, when we talk about human rights, then I must warn you that this is the only mention of the terms of human rights in this document called the supplemental information and the action plan. However, what is the mandate of this body? What are the criteria for selecting members of that body? The weight of their proposed measures that they will propose? There's nothing about this. We are just saying, here according to some of the recommendations we have received and from the European level, we will go into the formulation of such an independent body, and at the same time we have not set ourselves up at all in the 2007 report on the recommendations of that same body of the European Committee to prevent the torture of inhumane or humiliating treatment or punishment which, their delegation visited our prison system, made a series of remarks, a series of proposals and recommendations. In the 2007 report, it did not refer to a single word, not that it did not refer to what the Ombudsman said in his report and the recommendations he made, nor did it refer to the recommendations of this European Committee, but here is the only mention, we are now going to form an independent body and I guess we are going to solve our problems. So, because of what I've said, I personally simply don't absolutely see the purpose of giving a positive opinion at all about this report. I repeat, I think this House has already given a negative opinion when it accepted the minister's shift and when the new minister arrived, and the new minister has also replaced the director of the prison system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27255	At 11 o'clock, it's time to report for a ten-minute hearing. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27256	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, when we talk about the 2007 report, it's always a question of the meaning of this whole debate, a year has passed, a year and several days have passed as the year has passed. The question is, could we have gotten this report sooner? On the other hand, I fully agree with my colleague Sobol when you change the secretary of state because of the dissatisfaction of how the system worked and how many failures there were in the system, you can hardly have a positive debate on the report, or you can hardly give support to that report. It's a bit deplaced now to raise your hand and say, this report is good, there are no failures, in prisons it's wonderful and beautiful, and only a few months ago we were replaced, or not us, but the minister replaced the secretary of state who is the most responsible for the work being done there. The fact is that this whole report is just one set of data that doesn't show a clear picture, or all these problems that happen in prisons, and the only thing we can see from it is the fact that the prisoner has more and more and more, and that all other resources and what would be needed to make the system work well, we don't have enough to deal with it adequately. When we see that the number of prisoners has increased in 6 years from 2006 to 4300, that capacity has not increased significantly, when on the other hand we see that the number of employees in the system itself is only 10% higher in that same period, it is clear that we need to change something. This action plan, mentioned by the minister, could be a step forward. Of course, if you were a little more precise and you were perhaps numerically shown already in the budget for this year, but there is no such thing, so it is doubtful at all whether this plan will be both feasible and what support within the budget itself is possible to achieve this plan. What I would particularly point out as bad, not in a report that only lists what is going on, but bad in the prison system, it is certainly capacity, that is, the conditions in which prisoners serve their sentences or detainees are waiting for the investigation to take place and the trial to begin. When we look at all the prisons and see in the report that capacity is 144%, and when we look from prison to prison, the only prison in Dubrovnik had a capacity that could justify the number of prisoners or detainees who were inside. All other prisons are far above this average, it may be a prison in Karlovac that was at 200% or in Split, which was at 170% or in Varazdin 203%, meaning re-paced prisons for the number of prisoners currently serving or in custody. All of which, of course, says that the situation isn't great. Of course, the capacity that's in the prisons, we could read in a report by the attorney general, doesn't even fit these standards. For example, prison in Split is shown as capacity for 200 prisoners, and if you applied 4m square per prisoner standards, it would be 150. So many things are not even in line with the standards that apply today in the world, and Croatia would also have to apply them. What I couldn't, I couldn't, and I would be glad to have contained in the report, which is that there's a little bit of an actual situation that's in prisons and I'm going to take advantage of the opportunity to read a part of the report by the Public Attorney for 2007, which had 139 applications for violations of fundamental human rights in prisons and had several reconnaissances. Here's an example from the prison in Rijeka where they say that during the execution in the basement room in total darkness, although it was about 2:00 in the afternoon, there were 12 prisoners and convicts without air. When we entered the room, we turned on a light of two light bulbs because one did not work, and the prisoners peeked out of the bed. There are also those who are 21 months away from prison until the end of the sentence, thus slightly shorter than two years. The question of the purpose of serving the sentence is raised in such a way. There were 13 persons in the room of 25.7 square meters in the prison in Karlovac. So less than 2 squares per person. With six beds upstairs, so two people each, one person didn't have his own bed. So there was no room in the room for all the people who were supposed to sleep there. There were only 10 beds in the prison in Varazdin in room number 20, and two slept on the floor. Namely, on the day of the examination, there were 7 people who did not have their own bed, and some had no mattress. So there is also a direct violation of the law that speaks of the maintenance of a punishment that says that each person must have his own bed. On the other hand, that room had neither a sanitary knot nor a drinking water, so the guard had to take a person to the toilets when hitting the door. Since he can't hear them in all cases, it has happened that people can't even fulfil their basic needs that every man has to be able to do. So here are these three, four examples of what conditions are in Croatian prisons. I'd say there are two worlds in Croatian prisons. One, which I have now cited from three, four examples, is that it is all in the report of the Ombudsman, where people are said to live in almost inhumane conditions, reminds more of that film "Grof Monte Christo" than about the conditions where people should be able to support their punishment and repay debt to society and eventually be rehabilitated to return to society and restore all their rights. On the other hand, there is one world that, if you have money, influence, etc. you can be very comfortable in prison. And that's what several articles we've seen in the paper last year, where one weekly came up with information that parties are organised in the largest Croatian penitentiary. Well, prisoners enjoy all the benefits of life as if they weren't in support of their punishments. If there was evidence, they even took pictures of their cell phones of that party, they were very comfortable and showed these pictures as evidence here that it wasn't so bad for everyone in prison. So there are two worlds. One is the real one that says that there are no basic conditions for the execution of a prison sentence, and on the other hand there are those who have money, who can provide themselves with a variety of benefits, which nothing is missing in that prison. I am not satisfied that there are such two worlds, and I believe that on the one hand prisoners who endure punishment must have the most basic conditions of a man's decent life, and on the other hand those who are, and most often those who have money and on the maintenance and long sentences and serious violations, must not be allowed such things as I have now stated. And finally, I'm going to say that I support any change that will go better in the prison system, and that's where I'm going to give my support to the Minister for the implementation of this action plan. The only thing I'm asking is, I've read the detailed budget for this year, the funds don't exist planned, and it takes a lot of funding for these activities that the minister planned. And I think it might be necessary to indicate within what time limit this is considered possible. And on the other hand, he would call on the minister that perhaps one of the actions would be since we now still have a VD director to finally appoint the person responsible for the system and to move there from having the person responsible in the system and to establish the person responsible for the whole system after a few months of being replaced. And on the other hand, that these funds are being planned, I don't know if this year's rebalance in this budget or next year, but that these funds are being planned to significantly improve the conditions in Croatian prisons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27257	Thank you. Honorable representative Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27258	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. What can't be heard. So, what the minister said is that he is aware that this report, which is somewhat false and inaccurate in front of us, is relevant to 2007. I have to say that for me he's still kind of fake, but that's not what I'm saying because now I'm trying to trouble that report. It's what I'm saying in the future. So I think that this report is and that future reports should be such that, in fact, other than the drying-out of facts and data that are very valuable, things and relationships are problematic. So let's see exactly what's going on, let's see how interdisciplinaryly we're doing, so back from the aspects of legal, psychological profession, medical, sociological, etc. I'd say a more general but useful insight into the state of our prison system. Of course, a better plan of action can then be prepared for such a better analysis and conjecture. I feel so much that I also said to the Justice Committee that the plan for me in that part was asked, but not because it should not now be accepted as such, but in order to be even better. We could've done even better, but I'm saying it could've come from a better analysis. I understand the minister wants to change things as soon as possible, but in that changing things to make the analysis better. The other thing I'd like to point out, which is what I already objected to the minister. There are many problems in Croatia. People have nothing to eat many. The government must, except as one whole of the executive authorities, have priority, so ministers must have priorities. I think, Mr. Minister, that you're still putting emphasis, and you've already put on corruption and organised crime, and that you're even more committed to the organisation and work of the courts, that the judicial administration is still working so that the perpetrators of the crimes that are supposed to be in prison today are found in prison. So, let me finish around this thesis. I don't think this is an irrelevant question, it's important, but yet in a particular priority, it has its place. As far as the prison system itself is concerned, let me say a few words. First of all, I think the smart executive government is always looking at what was good before. It removes what's wrong with that class. When the coalition government left its post in 2003 we got, you have today in the archives, many commendations for the current conditions of the prison system especially with measures to be implemented. However, there has been a deformity, in the meantime these last ones I will not say for six years, five full years when there has been an increase in the number of prisoners by 40% and exactly the number that is now excessive. And the reason for that is two basic things for me. First of all, what Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic was talking about was not precise enough, I would even say a somewhat wrong criminal policy that stimulated the entire apparatus and police, and the State's Attorney's Office and the judiciary to really prosecute small criminals and offenders. Now I'm going to tell you an example of very interesting. The other day, I got a call from a pensioner who had a thousand $600 pensions. And since he's this wonderful traffic safety law on the roads that repressive nature caught him by cops trafficked in a misdemeanor. The violation consists of his driver's license expired for two months and that's a violation. You know what his punishment is at the end of the Criminal Court? Six thousand, 700 kuna. And now look, he's forced on account of the fact that he can't pay for it because he told him what a pension to do time in prison. And now that's the second measure I think is the cause of overcrowding in prison, which is that he's forced and others are forced to pay in our terms to replace fines with prison. And that's also a picture of how we normally act as efficient as a society when it comes to those who usually commit violations. But let's not, people, so let's not do that. Now let me tell you another example. I may not be able to get a chance to say some important things, but he's very handsome. One police officer in the area of Sinj, the defender of the Homeland War, two children, indeed committed a violation in a way, a crime of pardon, that he took a bribe of about 50 euros in value with another colleague. I don't know the details now, but I know this for sure. And now he's got a year of unconditional imprisonment, and before that, of course, he's been fired, confirmed by the Supreme Court. Please nice, we're efficient here, we're the most efficient. And it didn't take much care that a man had two children, that he was the defender of the Homeland War, that now his family would have nothing to eat. And that's our relationship to reality and to the perpetrators of crime. These are individual cases. There are a lot of these individual cases, please investigate. And I'd like to ask the government to let us know how many of these individual cases are. Here, I accept that we see how many of these individual cases are and how many individual cases are closed with these from "maester" on, let's see. Here's the thing, I'm about to say some deformities. And I'm going to answer to Mrs. Caparin right now because I haven't had a chance before. You said by speaking to Mrs. Antičević Marinović that it is not true that we stand badly in that prison system, that we are as country as any other. Look, I'm just going to say one deformity, one example, but there are still not so few of these individual cases, they're not the rule, that the prisoner by the name and last name of Ksenija Test in Pozega couldn't get to the prison to the doctor and she had chronic hepatitis C. That's why the European Court of Human Rights assigned her to the burden of this country 18 thousand 200 euros that must be paid off. And you know what the consequences were? There's a consequence not only of that case. That's Mrs. Caparin's answer. That the European Committee, Mr. Minister, knows what I'm talking about, for the prevention of torture and inhumanity or humiliating treatment or punishment of the Council of Europe, wrote to our government about two months ago, quote: "The authorities are required to send a clear message to prison staff that the physical and verbal abuse of prisoners will not be tolerated and will be severely sanctioned.". It's a message to our government, and that's Mrs. Capara's answer to you. Of the problems that are currently in the prison system, I'll just mention a few in a hurry. The employment of 25% less but overtime is as much as you want for 2007 who knows how much for 2008, 25 million kuna has been paid for 4.5 million overtime hours. It doesn't make sense. I don't have time, so I can't explain it right now. Discipline of prison staff. It's the best data they've got. Of the 28 procedures carried out, only one person has been fired. Everyone else is kind of freed. I forgot to say, and that's what matters. From the prison staff, we're the most troublesome with the medical profession. I already said that, Mr. Minister, over there on the Justice Committee. We need these doctors, psychiatrists, etc. Maybe pay better than the executives because we have no other choice. At the very end, I mean according to what I said before.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27259	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27260	Then I don't have time anymore. I respect the order. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27261	Thank you very much. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First of all, she's an esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27262	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President. Namely, I'd fix a colleague. I wasn't correcting my colleague to stand up badly with the prison system, but I corrected her in the quote because she said Strasbourg was a horror in Croatian prisons. And it simply downloaded it from the Internet of an article of the newspaper, not that it supported the document perhaps in one piece as you supported. And secondly, it's incorrect to solve the system by paying for more psychiatrists or psychologists. We're not going to solve it because we can't find it on the market at all. You can't get a psychiatrist after two or three years. So we need them... Specializations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27263	Thank you. Second correction by the distinguished representative Susana Bilic-Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27264	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman. My colleague, I will refer to this quote that was corrected by my colleague Caparin and it refers to what my colleague Marinovic said. It is an incorrect allegation, and I am correcting a fellow who referred to this allegation because the true truth, which is true, in 2007, when the Parliament discussed the report on the state of the prison system for 2006 was used, I read here. The title of the fifth month, says colleague Marinović, one of our daily newspapers: "Awesome in prisons, Strasbourg terrified of the situation in our prisons and penitentiary.". As the colleagues in the opposition stated that it was declassified today to discuss the 2007 report, I do not know how the paper is published all the time and know exactly when the Croatian Parliament will debate and the same titles will be published every or every other year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27265	Thank you. You did not report for the replica, you did not report for the replica during the basic presentation, and you must report until the end of the basic presentation, you did not report, you do not have the right to reply according to the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on with the debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27266	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Minister Šimonovic said immediately in his first sentence that he felt a certain discomfort in submitting this report, and I fully understand the discomfort. First, he presents a report before the Parliament for a period when he was not minister for 2007, and second since the minister, since being a non-partisan person, has led this portfolio, he has taken some very concrete and very noticeable measures in the prison system that are going towards improving the prison system. What we congratulate him on and give our support to keep doing so. Indeed, as has already been said, we here now need to discuss a report on last year's snow, about 2007. The government submitted the report in December 2008. And the report is actually a set of statistics. He's even an extremely slow and lazy clerk, and I don't think he needs more than a month to put together a report like this at the end of the year. So I suggest that the Parliament here draws one conclusion that such reports must be discussed in the first six months of the following year for the period for which they are submitted because it only makes sense. Discussing what was two or three years ago a little pointless, we feel a little silly like that. I have another methodological recommendation, Mr. Secretary. I think it would be a good idea for such reports to be discussed in parallel, together at the same session, point by point with a report by the Advocate General for a period of time. Why? Because in his report, the Advocate General made concrete remarks, he made an inspection, made some conclusions. And since this is not up to you, but to the President of the Parliament, then I suggest that the Ministers include a methodological report by the Ombudsman in that section, include this report. Just copy the copy paste, copy it, and we'll discuss it here, it'll be a useful addition. The MPs are now like my colleague Maras, and I myself went to the 2007 staff attorney's report on the part relating to the prison system, and I can tell you that the data I found there is unusually useful, so that the overall situation can be seen. For example, only four prisons, the one in Gospić, Pula, Sibenik and Zagreb have established prisons for more than 6 months, but because of lack of space, employees are also referred to other prisons that do not have their own departments. It's not in this basic, fundamental opinion, it doesn't say that sentence. It is therefore important to note now that such an anomaly exists and see if it can be corrected. A legal minimum of 4 square metres per prisoner, or a prisoner or a criminal, is not respected. It's a serious problem, good, overcrowding problem. In Karlovac 200%, in Bjelovar 181% overcrowding. Now, what does that mean when we say overcrowding, what does that mean now? It actually means that these prisoners are sustained under humiliating conditions, which is important, these conditions are humiliating. They stay in the room 22 hours a day, have the right to two showers a week. Now, if they, as counterpart Maras quoted this report from the Public Attorney from Rijeka, if they 12 live in the basement room in the full darkness of 22 hours, in total darkness, there's no outside light, two light bulbs come in, only one works, these... from the bed of prisoners. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now the question is how to comply with Article 69. A law on the execution of a prison sentence that says: "A number of pedagogical work, health, psychological, social and security procedures, appropriate qualities and needs of prisoners."that law says it should, but how, what are these measures now and which can be implemented at all? When there's 12 of them out there in total darkness in the basement room with no air, no light. How if they don't have a sanitary node, if they have to do all the needs in that one room. It's Carl's. 72 people are on support, of which 8 are given safety precautions for psychiatric treatment. And only one person employed in the treatment. However, this one person in treatment may lead them in an appropriate manner and in order to comply with provision 69. Law on law enforcement? Not for all prisoners the conditions are humiliating. But not for all the humiliating conditions is humiliating for this society. Some, as we had the opportunity to see, order food from the hotel, from restaurants, throw parties in prison, have organized visits to people who are not scheduled to visit. I know Ministers that you've replaced a number of people and that you've introduced order, or at least you're trying to bring order and that such benefits stop. You have support here, at least in these benches. And keep going that way. But the fact itself, the fact that in the prison system some have to sleep on the floor because they don't have a bed, or mattress, on some time-consuming sponge is written by a public defender, and others order food from the hotel every day and receive inappropriate visits and organize entertainment, which says that in the prison system the situation is much worse than described in this report. They complain, of course, on health conditions and length of detention. So one complains to the occupier that his detention was set in July 2006, and no debate was held until 12 months 2007. Since you're the minister of justice, this comment by the attorney general is important to you, and you have to consider it, because, look, if you spend a year and a half of a day in custody, and there's not a single debate, and in the end it happens as in "Little Maestro" because of the guilty work of the State's Attorney's Office, some kind of a ridiculous charge, for some kind of roast, to get out of custody after a year and a half, then we have to ask ourselves, what kind of fair society we are, is that a society of justice where some year and a half of a day is in custody, and finally released. Action plan. The action plan comes down to one thing. That's where the money's needed. There needs money to expand capacities, improve conditions, employ more staff. That's quite clear. Three billion kunas I think we're missing in that system. Now, where'd you get the money? It's hard to believe we're gonna get him. Only yesterday in the stock market did citizens lose three billion kunas due to a reckless statement by the prime minister. And now you expect that in a budget that scratches at the bottom, and for a prison system money, it's not real. So that action plan is unrealistic. Three billion on the stock market yesterday lost. Citizens who were forced to buy shares, to earn on them, eventually lost. They lost because the prime minister says the second pillar is a failure. And it's not a failure of the second or first pillar, it's a failure of this government and the prime minister with such statements. But we're not going to talk about the first and second pillar now, but we're going to conclude that we support this report, which is what it is, and I'm going to ask the Ministers that in the next reports that you're going to be in charge of, you should respect these well-meaning remarks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27267	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First of all, she's an esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27268	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I can't resist without commenting on a colleague who's prioritizing everything that comes from this government is negative. But I'm correcting his claim that this report is extremely bad because it's a data set. Well, some he gave me our one non-data report, because if you know a fellow Stazic, based on that data, you can draw certain conclusions and even this action plan. And what's the data...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27269	Don't throw it away!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27270	Don't throw it away, don't be rude to one lady toss it, come out on the ring... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27271	Here you go. Finish it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27272	And on the quality of the report I can read you about my profession. Out of the 103,000 98 medical examinations carried out during 2007, the majority refers to a 75% general review. During 2007, a significant number of 11000 54 specialist and health checks was observed.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27273	Thank you! Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27274	So, it doesn't look that bad in health.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27275	The second correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27276	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting the misquote of fellow Stazic who said the weight of this action plan is three billion kunas. Apparently, the colleague did not listen carefully to the opening statement of the minister, who said that the weight or financial need for the implementation of the 2009-2013 action plan amounted to a billion and a few million kunas, of which a billion relate to the construction of a completely new prison and a penitentiary capacity of 500 prisoners.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27277	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27278	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Minister. I will look back at only one point of this report in my debate, which is what it says about sanctions, work for the common good at large. Although the figures are old in 2007, it seems to me that relations or parameters will be similar in 2008, which I conclude from the action plan in which this problem is yet to be mentioned. This report shows that in 2007 the measures or sanctions of work for the general good at large were imposed on 446, i.e. when it started in 2002, a total of 962 sanctions. Of the 108 municipal courts, such measures were pronounced only 63, and of the 21 county courts 18 of them. So it is obvious that county courts have more frequently applied the right to give such measures, while in municipal courts everything is somewhere above the half. Personally, I believe that it is too little that the courts have used too little of the possibility to impose such sanctions, the more visible it is that the ministry has managed to train 232 commissioners to monitor the enforcement of these measures, and it turns out that in the past year, one commissioner was able to oversee two convicts. They're the penitentiary? I don't know the expression, but they probably are. So, if you express a measure of work for the common good on the loose, then the only term I found is the penitentiary. Therefore, on two convicts, one Commissioner has been trained to monitor the implementation of these measures. So from that aspect we have prepared, we have trained people, we have commissioners to monitor the implementation of this measure. The first problem, therefore, is that clearly courts rarely impose such sanctions and the other problem that I am suggesting from this, that the ministry has so far concluded 111 contracts with legal persons, I suppose, where this work for the common good can be carried out. 111. It seems extremely small to me, I don't know what those legal persons are, but it seems to me that it would be good if the Ministry of Justice, the Government and all those involved were to give more incentives and incentives to all who meet the prescribed conditions, accept people, punishers to process or perform work for the general good, especially public institutions, state-owned enterprises, local self-government and humanitarian organisations. Because traffic offenders are not suspicious, they shouldn't have a reservation against them if they're going to work in a humanitarian organization, if that's okay with you. Following the experience of Western European countries, the European Union, they have long established and claim that this is the cheapest sanction for the state because it doesn't cost almost anything and the most mature especially when it comes to young people where, instead of closing down and putting into prison, work for the greater good really seems educational and educational. Talking to several judges of municipal courts, I asked why they rarely use the measure. They told me about the next one. We've given 15 such measures, but we have nowhere else to send the prisoners to do the prescribed time of work for the common good, and now I'm asking. It seems to me to continue that if within two years the court does not refer someone to work for the greater good that the sanctions cease to apply. And what's going on? Of these 962 measures, how many are truly done, for if this is an execution or just an execution. Then there's one slight correction. Therefore, if the judges warn that there is no place to refer, and that the measure ceases to apply after a certain time because they have not provided for the execution, then it would be really good to see if there are any more interested legal entities in this country who would receive such people for the execution of this sanction, but also in the context and action plan, it would probably be possible to achieve additional savings in the ministry's budget, to make a new step towards not going to jail for these minor crimes or offences, but that the sanctions were raised in terms of that because most of this is being done in contact with other citizens, people, public buildings, institutions or areas. And I have also seen in some countries that when they work, they carry that sanction and special uniforms that can be recognized as fulfilling the sanctions for general good as a new message. Not in all, in America for sure, I'm sure it would be directed to publicly see that they're carrying out this exact sanction. Therefore, it is recommended to all of you and Mr. Ministers that the work of the action plan, where this measure is mentioned, is not indicated whether it will enter into moves or campaigns or stimulate legal entities to open up. Therefore, to conclude contracts may be a problem in the rulebook or conditions to be met in order to have the conditions to conclude a contract with the ministry. So I really don't know, you see what it's all about and I just can't believe that there wouldn't be enough or more of them interested in it this way, especially telling young people to serve a measure, a criminal measure, or a sanctions of work for the greater good. With the savings in money, with the savings on the number of staff that should otherwise be somewhere and in space I want to believe that you will pay attention to this and upgrade the action plan in this. Or find the reasons why only 111 legal entities agreed to conclude that contract. So, with these recommendations and my thoughts, there's just one more thing I want to say. Besides colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, I still haven't received an answer to Prime Minister Sanader's question of privileged pensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27279	Patience, saved! Whoever's waiting will be waiting! Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27280	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. An important segment of the functioning of the prison system is health care. A few colleagues and colleagues talked about it today, so I'm going to try to cut my share as much as possible. It is necessary for all detainees and prisoners to provide comprehensive health care, but this is not the case for the simple reason why around 20% of health care staff are missing. As a member of the Medical Committee of the Croatian Medical Chamber for Other Activities, I am familiar with the problems of doctors working in the prison system who simply have much worse conditions than their colleagues at the Ministry of Health as regards education, as regards progress, as they pay. So I am therefore interested in what is intended to be done because it cannot be read from this action plan to ensure to all healthcare professionals at least the same conditions as their colleagues in the health system within the Ministry of Health because it is an answer to why you cannot get doctors in the prison system, why go to the prison system when under the conditions of lack of doctors have much better conditions for professional development and, of course, for their existence in the system of the Ministry of Health. Of course, it is very important that doctors are educated in a prison system that is inadequate and that, given the character of their work, should be much more specific than colleagues, for example, in a public sector hospital. The following report, which specifically prompted my thinking, states that there were 104,000 medical examinations, of which 1% of specialists include dental, laboratory and psychiatric examinations. So, only 1% and at the same time it's said that every fifth prisoner, and that's 20%, suffers from some kind of psychiatric disorder. We also heard five suicides that happened. Thus, it is absolutely incomprehensible to have such a disproportionate attitude toward the number of psychiatric cases and the number of those who have received adequate psychiatric care. This has already been discussed today, so I reiterate that the area of psychiatric care is also something that should also be in the action plan when we consider the number of drug addicts in prisons. Finally, 3640 prisoners on hepatitis B and C were tested. 22% were positive, but only 7. So, what is being taken is that all those who are positive for hepatitis B and C, especially those who are long-term in prison, are being taken to allow adequate treatment so that after they get out of prison, they have the possibility of resociating not only in terms of their health, but in order for their getting out of prison to be permanent and not only to be a temporary part of their living and after they return to the prison system. And it has already been said that the action plan is not the subject of this debate, nor is it in the agenda. However, one who has been working on an action plan does not know the basics of the methodology for drawing up an action plan. This is a wish set, and the action plan must have carriers, it must have deadlines, it must have financial resources and indicators of implementing measures. None of it's in the action plan. And I suggest to those who made it to do it again but respecting the methodology of making an action plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27281	Thank you. On December 12, 2008, the government sent the Croatian Parliament a report on the work of the penitentiary, prison and responsible institutions for 2007, so 2, 3 days before the end of the assembly session, and this Action Plan for the improvement of the prison system of the Republic of Croatia was submitted by the Government as part of the debate and information on the current situation in the prison system and the Action Plan for the improvement of the prison system of the Republic of Croatia so that it is on the agenda and we are discussing it today. Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27282	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable Director, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to say a few words, but I'm really sorry that I have to realize that on this very left hand side of the assembly come such comments, but I'm not surprised because we haven't passed any laws yet, and there's no criticism that's not good and here, so this is also today, your exposure is absolutely no wonder. The truth is that there are problems in the prison system today, but I ask you where and in which country there are no specific reports, and TV shows that many countries have a lot of problems in the prison system and that our prison system is really quality, but that there is certainly some things that need to be done, and I understand that. But you've had a chance to do it before, too, so you've done what you've done, but this action plan and everything this government has predicted, of course, with the security of the funds will certainly be far better than it is today. I will deliberately tell this public today who is watching us say a few words and those good ones, but certainly also those maybe a little critical where we should definitely touch each other because it's never ideal, but it's not how you show it. So when we talk about the prison system, it is important to say that the work of the prison system administration and the execution of the prison sentence, as well as the measures of detention by the law on the execution of the prison, have been identified as tasks of particular interest for the Republic of Croatia. The sentence of prison is a social reaction in terms of special and general prevention. A special prevention other than the issuing of perpetrators from the social community represents its training for life on the loose in accordance with law and social rules. In order to enable the perpetrator to live in accordance with the law and social rules, i.e. to achieve its rehabilitation and rehabilitation in the prison system, various useful activities are organised and specific programmes are implemented, taking into account security, primarily the prison system and with the obligation to enable all fundamental human rights of prisoners prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the laws and international legal rules. In order to rehabilitate the perpetrators of a criminal offence, it must be such that prisoners are encouraged to develop personal responsibility for their own actions, which will continue to apply on the loose after a sustained sentence. For this reason, the prison execution organisation must be implemented in a way that supports the conditions in the social community. The prisoner must be motivated to participate voluntarily in the implementation of an individual punishment programme, i.e. to carry out all activities. In the conditions of lack of space for accommodation that we have today and in which we are convinced, prisoners and the pursuit of all activities in order to resociate the perpetrators of criminal offences and the insufficient number of professional staff to carry out all activities in the prison system, or officials, the recognition of the results presented in this report must be given. Namely, the Internal Order of the Ministry of Justice provides for 2802 officials, so I speak for 2007, and the furniture, and as the report shows, at the end of 2007, 2572 employees and tenants were filled, which is 230 and 8.21% less than planned, respectively. Also, although this percentage may not seem large and does not seem alarming, it is just an illusion. It must not be forgotten that the prisoner is a man who is temporarily deprived of liberty, so in this sense he is socially isolated and is therefore limited to the ability to exercise certain rights such as parenting and the like. When we compare in 2008, we also see that from 31.12.2008, there were 2576 employees, 639 less than anticipated 3215. When we talk about caring for prisoners, it's clear that through training officers for specific tasks that are being done right in the prison system, and I'm going to name just a few. It is a communication of skills, prevention of suicide, treatment of alcohol addicts, treatment of drug addicts and prevention of drug abuse, treatment of PTSD prisoners, treatment of AIDS prisoners and any other preventions taken. Also, when we talk about the quality of the service, then we can also present certain data, and they say that the non-injurious relationship between officials, judicial police and prisoners is 1:2,81. Reduce the number of use of coercion funds, reduce rejection of prison food, reduce physical conflicts between prisoners. There was no escape from the closed conditions of maintaining the sentence, although here we were in Pozega and had two escapes, but it was an open system and of course it could always be counted, but the officers had fully dealt with all the rules, so no one came into the prison system and was on the open system, and there was no reason for that. I could, of course, list other things there, but I'll move on. Due to the insufficient number of officials and the continuing increase in the number of prisoners, the work and performance of a large number of overtime hours is difficult, resulting in dissatisfaction and stress among officials and is reflected in health skills. This is why, in cooperation with the Zagreb Faculty of Educational Rehabilitation, a project called "Good condition and combustion at work of prison staff", aimed at identifying sources of dissatisfaction and stress, and to develop a professional strategy to improve working conditions and to take appropriate measures, to reduce or eliminate stress causes that affect the ability of employees to perform jobs, and to raise motivation for work. You saw for yourself that in the report, we read that 25 million kuna stands out for the overtime. And of course I could talk about a lot more. I will only say as far as the action plan is concerned that the Government of the Republic is indeed planning to increase accommodation capacity, build new facilities, etc. I would just say that this is an opportunity where I would say that there is a prison system in Pozega with all the elements, or people who act there and that building new capacities in the same area, or in the same place, would be good, because the system is organized. The construction of new facilities would certainly lead to a new employment of hundreds of people, etc. I'd be done with this. I would especially like to thank and congratulate the prison system and penitentiary in Požega on the public recognition of Minister Šimonović as well as the best system and director for recognising good organisation and good work. But he would also congratulate Minister Shimonovic on his activities so that they have even better conditions in the prison system as soon as possible. But of course the Government of the Republic of Croatia supports it and will do anything to make the prison system far and far safer and better than it is today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27283	Thank you very much. I just remembered how I forgot '86. For years to congratulate the prison system of the Old Town Penitentiary. With a little late, I now congratulate that. Replica, Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27284	... There's a radio show if I'm not wrong about "Wishes and Greetingss" or what it's called. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A fellow Lucic just finished his presentation, and of course it is his right. I listened very carefully to you, and you were surprised at the beginning of your debate that we do not accept something from this side. We accept almost nothing that comes from your side. But don't you really think that the debate at all about one report for 2007, after all that happened last year, isn't that debate actually groundless? So this House gave a negative assessment at the time he voted to replace the minister, that is, when he voted in favour of the appointment of the new minister. And this new minister, meanwhile, we all know and replaced the director, the former prison director at the time. And now we should be talking here about some kind of praise or I don't know what, about the 2007 report, which is what it is, which has statistical data repeated year after year. And this action plan, it has wonderful things written in it. I can't deny it. It's got everything in it that needs to be done. It says what we've been saying all these years, and here in the Parliament, we're saying we should do. But I will believe that this will be done at a time when the action plan has determined exactly what will happen and what means when it is done and who is responsible. There's no such thing in this action plan. You deny me. It has the only amount that writes 25 million kuna, approximately the cost of equipment that should be obtained for the prison system. And that's the question, and nobody said exactly whether or not that 25 million kuna was secured this year. And of which the money will be redeployed to the basement and attic rooms in new prisoner rooms and the like, there is no question of that in this action plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27285	Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27286	Well, fellow Members of mine, when I was speaking in general about successes, and then I was thinking about the people who run the prison system in Požega. And in the end, the minister publicly commended the people in the system. But at the same time, you're throwing trees and stones at the same system today, and we've been reading and listening to the 2001 report also on the prison system. So don't be so critical. And the government of the Republic of Croatia will indeed do what it said about the action plan. Because so far, no program that the government has drawn for itself has been unfulfilled, but has been achieved in any segment, so it will be here and in the judiciary of colleagues. Don't forget that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27287	He said in one foreword of my book, that they shut down the mirror of society. Honorable representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27288	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, after a series of corrections of incorrect allegations, I can't and since we're discussing this report today in 2007, I can't say that in some ways I have to say that it's too late, since we're already in 2009. But I hope 2008 comes sooner. If we compare with past reports, then we will really see that some data is constantly repeated, from lack of staff, from lack of furniture, which is further about increasing the volume of work leading to 408 thousand 366 overtime hours of work, which means doing work for about 200 new employees. All we know is that there are no doctors, psychologists, social workers, defectologists and pedagogues missing, and that out of over 2,000 576 employees in that system 16% waste on care staff to breeders, doctors and psychiatrists. So, in the system, we have little professional staff. However, all praises are given to those who are working today in view of the specificity of the work, given the entire prison system of which I kind of despise myself. The report and after all of this data remains visible that the database is insufficient and of course it cannot be sufficient if we do not have enough information system that you are talking about yourself in this report. In addition to increasing inmates from the report, the tendency to increase the number of prisoners with relatively longer prison sentences of almost 15% is evident. Almost every sixth prisoner endures a prison sentence of 10 years and longer. The fact is that the number of women in prison is not only in ours but also in Europe in a steady increase, but fortunately these women are a minority compared to the male population. If we compare to one Netherlands over the past ten years, the number has increased from 385 to 25, so by 166%. In addition, the majority of the population in the most vital period of life, therefore the most productive, is that it is not inescapable in our prison system. I will look back at the women of the prisoners during 2007 in the prison system were 822 women or 4.6% of the total prison population of the various formal legal statuses. So the largest number 32 was held in prison for property crimes, 27 for the crime against life and the body and 26 for the value of protected international rights. Cases against official duty 16 followed, as well as crimes against marriage, family and youth. Most of them are being punished in a penitentiary in Požega. I must point out that these women are mothers, that they're usually the only ones in charge of children, they go far from their families, relationships break up, and you should definitely think how to mitigate the impact of prison on the inmate's family life. Unfortunately, in this report, I have no record of how many prisoners have children. I ask that in the following reports we have this information on the age structure of children etc. Besides, how many children his parents are in jail. It's not a small number, some say it's supposed to multiply by 1.3, so when you multiply it in our population, then there's really a lot of kids to worry about. And the third thing, how many children were born in prison that we can't really see from this report. The Council of Europe recommends that children of prisoners be allowed to visit prisons taking into account the rights of the child. Children whose parents are in prison are a particularly vulnerable group, and we need to keep that in mind. These are children who were born during their mother's sentence of imprisonment and can stay in prison with her for three years. When it comes to the lack of a doctor, then I must also mention the lack of pediatricians who should really do a supervisory work and talk about the health status of these children, what kind of diet they have, etc. We have children whose one or both parents are in prison and they are located in institutions, with family members, foster parents. The Ombudsman for children not mentioned in this report warned after visiting problems related to contact of children and parents in prison, to the spatial and humane conditions in prison institutions, to the willingness of parents or social care centres to bring the child, to disagree with parents and centres for social care or courts related to contacts in prison with the mother or father, to financial opportunities because prisoners and families are limited financial opportunities, and often because of this, children are unable to come to prison and ultimately refuse that contact. The conditions in Croatian prisons, unfortunately, are quite inappropriate for quality contacts between children and parents, and you have mentioned it yourself. Many European countries have very high standards when you look for this contact of children and prisoners, and often these standards and conditions meet the "friend" of a child with one humanized environment. This friendly environment between the mother and the father and the children, so between the prisoners and the prisoner should in some way grow in our prisons. Often the security measures imposed on visitation can be frightening for children and lead to mental disorders of the child himself without talking about transferring from mother and father to child behaviour and genetic and later during development. It is known that there is more difficult communication between the prison and the outside world, between the mother of the prisoner and the child especially in the process of deciding education and treatment when the mother has no influence on it in the outside world at all. And in the end, this may seem really irrelevant to you in relation to prison retrieval, lack of employees, or that it is not good to talk about a prison space where you should invest for children. But please, if we see figures in the next report, it won't hurt our head, but then we'll be able to talk about an action plan where we'll find space for action in this direction because these kids in society are often discriminated against for their parents' status, indirectly punished for other people's misdemeanors, separated from their loved ones, from their parents. Because of our children, we need to improve the conditions for the exercise of the right of a child whose parents are in prison not only for their sake but also for our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27289	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27290	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The Administration of the Prison System was adopted as a single administrative organisation within the Ministry of Justice. In its composition, all penitentiary facilities, prisons, the Centre for the Education of Prison System Officers, and educational institutions as independent bodies under the supervision of the Central Office are entered into the central office. Suspension for the duration of the sentence shall be carried out in six prison sentences of a closed, semi-open and open type and a security measure of mandatory psychiatric treatment when imposed with the sentence of imprisonment shall be carried out at the prison hospital in Zagreb. The sentence of juvenile prison shall be carried out in closed and semi-closed conditions in separate departments of two penitentiary offices. The measure of detention, the sentence of imprisonment imposed in criminal proceedings for up to six months, the sentence of imprisonment imposed in criminal proceedings and the sentence of prison replacing the fine imposed in 14 prisons. In 4 out of 14 prisons, jail time for more than 6 months was allowed. A parenting measure to refer to a educational institution which courts pronounce to minors of criminal offences is carried out in two educational institutions. The report raises fundamental problems that are repeated and growing year after year, which are the overcrowding of the penitentiary and prisons that lead to difficulties in meeting Croatian and international standards. Then insufficient number of officials and professional staff in relation to the increase in the number of prisoners, as well as insufficient and outdated equipment specific to safety. The report also shows that the use of coercion funds as well as prisoner attacks on officials reduces cases of rejection of prison food, escape and attempted escape, self-harming, physical conflicts between prisoners as the number of suicides increases. However, the increase is five cases in 2007, but if we look at it in 2008 it fell to one case. Furthermore, the report contains information relating to the education of prison system officials from areas specific to working with prisoners, such as project of the treatment of perpetrators of criminal offences with elements of violence in penitentiary and prisons, prevention and treatment project... violence, program, joint work with inmates minors and others. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The report shall contain information on the various forms of health care provided within the prison system or institutions... Among the important treatment procedures for the purpose of executing the prison sentence, the rehabilitation of prisoners stands out for the work of prisoners and vocational education, especially if it has in mind the level of training of prisoners. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The education of judges and state lawyers on the subject of the enforcement of alternative sanctions during 2006 significantly increased the number of alternative sanctions imposed in 2007 but not enough to relieve the legal system. In view of the current situation in the prison system, the need for its reform will be imposed, as contained in the government's action plan for improving the prison system in the Republic of Croatia. The Action Plan focuses primarily on improving the accommodation conditions of prisoners, which assumes a rationalisation of the use of re-use of existing capacities, the construction of new accommodation facilities and the establishment of a system of testing or control of freedom whose establishment will certainly reduce the number of prison employees. This should be accompanied by new employment, the organisation of permanent education for all categories of prison officials in order to train for specific tasks in the prison system and special treatment programmes for special groups of employees and their implementation as well as the information and networking of all penitentiary and prisons, the establishment of databases, both inmates and civil servants and substitutes and other necessary records. In order to raise the level of security of the prison system, adequate security equipment and other necessary equipment for the day-to-day performance of tasks and tasks are envisaged. Since there is no independent monitoring body in the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of conducting supervision of the handling of prisoners and respecting European prison rules which are largely based on the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the case law of the European Court of Human Rights and the practice of the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture of Inhuman and Demeaning Treatment or Penalty of the Action Plan provides for the establishment of a national independent observer body whose members will be appointed persons with confirmed professional qualities and reputation in the field of protection of human rights. Finally, the Action Plan envisions the reorganisation and strengthening of the justice ministry's own administration. In order to implement the measures resulting from the action plan, it is necessary to make sure that changes in the legislative system primarily relating to the adoption of the law on probation, amendments to the rules on the enforcement of the law, rules on minors, internal structure, supervision, establishment of a national independent observer body and others are necessary. In my view, I support the report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions for 2007 with information on the current situation in the prison system and the Action Plan for the improvement of the prison system of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27291	Thank you. Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27292	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, namely, I must say that at the very beginning, I agree with all those who say that it is almost pointless to talk about something that happened in 2007, that is, everything that followed as a result of the ministry's assessment of work but also in the prison system in 2008. But since we say that it is still a set of statistics, I have tried a little bit to deal with these statistics more when the whole time you listen to how much the funds are missing from the prison system to make it work. We've also been talking for a few years about how there aren't enough employees and tenants in prison. And you'd also think that there's no funds there, or that these officers and tenants don't have just because they don't have the funds. However, when we read further 408 thousand overtime hours were achieved in 2007 in this particular prison system. 408 thousand or what would certainly be those hours that would satisfy 200 new employees along with the state allocate funds for defenders, for their requalification and here overtime for which 18 million is paid. From year to year more, then statistics again. In 2003, we paid 8.5 million for overtime, 2004. 10 million, 2005. 11.9, or 12 million, in 2006 we paid 18 million for overtime, and 15 million, respectively. Not only is this more expensive work, but certainly this work takes bread and those who are located in 15% of the unemployed in Croatia, it can be less, but certainly we could have done something and higher safety of those employees, because if someone works overtime, it is more likely that it is more exposed to dangers because there is no concentration, fatigue, etc. And if there could be problems for which I'm sure... At a given moment, someone answered. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We were talking about accommodation facilities. I'm just gonna play with words here. We know that the capacity is not available, that almost 50% of the prisons have been re-supplyed, so I think with the existing normative that we should use really the term normative capacity, not the legal capacity, because by saying that 4000 200 people turned out to be illegally located, and I don't think that the judiciary should allow it, and that system should not allow it. The work of prisoners and vocational training has been named as one of the most important treatment procedures in the execution of prison sentences, rehabilitation of prisoners and reduction of relapses. But does only 37% of prisoners work? Why do they have to have overtime too? Why does everything, I think, with numbers and letters, 18 prisoners work in companies, etc. past the system? I think that here with better quality engagement you can certainly do more. Kola Jovanovic had already talked about the appointment of a doctor, about their conditions or conditions, about their low salary, but I must say that, again playing with statistics, it surprised me that in 2007, three thousand specialist examinations were registered in dental clinics and dental clinics. Let's not forget that any such departure costs, has an escort, from a vehicle to a staff member, I didn't deal with that norm. So, one man is being followed by two escorts. Three thousand hits only at the dentist or dental clinic. How much pay could a dentist have inside the system or get there? I wonder if it's not indicative that it might fit the staff that works there, because it might be more convenient to go out, etc., and on the other hand it wouldn't be bad enough to save something. Very often speaking to citizens, they ask me who determines the privileged status and treatment of individual prisoners, their transfer. The answer is right here. But then why is all the guilt being transferred to the directors at the moment, if someone has escaped from the system, if there have been certain strikes, suicides, etc., and at the same time there is obviously not enough coordination and responsibility on those who evaluate and determine the privileged status and treatment of individual prisoners. I think there's room in other segments to talk about some actions that shouldn't be allowed in such a system. Another occupier pointed to problems in the canteens, or shops in the prison system, about what is happening in that. The problem of public procurement has been pointed out, and little does it have to be without all these data, and not all of them are available, people are wondering a little bit if the prison system has become Eldorado for individuals in this system and where we will be able to find those individuals when it is established, if they want to be determined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27293	Thank you. Mr. Representative Sima Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27294	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Vice President, you just mentioned the name of a nice place on the left bank of Sava, called Stara Gradiška. It's very familiar to us, but I'm not coming back, Mr. Vice President in '86, and I know what it's like for you and the other prisoners, the prisoners, I'd be back in today's state, and that's 2009. I'm well aware that the Old Town Penitentiary does not meet standards and regulations and that it is no longer and cannot be. However, it is also known that the penitentiary is now a monument of culture and that the Ministry of Culture is the object, the area was donated to the Municipality of Stara Gradiška. Two plants that are inside the penitentiary, a fuel tanker plant works, a sawmill and a wood production plant, a carpenter's workshop works, and it's good that there are 80 employees there today. However, the facilities, 30% of the objects that were up to the Action "Blash", until May 1995 in office, they are not today. I am not in favour of restoring it there and cannot be, as I said in the introduction, but I think the joint measures of the municipalities of Stara Gradiška, County of Brodo-Posaviska, Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Culture should take care of the facilities or remove them from there, and the Municipality of Stara Gradiška, a municipality with a very small budget of 26 municipalities in Brodo-Posavina County, cannot really do so. They therefore need support. I think you agree with me here. And on top of that, I'm gonna cut my speech short, Vrpolje. Along the D7 road means Velika Kopanica – Vrpolje – Đakovo - Osijek, Ministry of Justice by letter of intent and personal reconnaissance intends to build a prison system, a penitentiary, along that road. Therefore, Vrpolje Municipality changed its spatial plan, changed its agricultural land supply plan, and secured 41 hectares of land for that purpose. I ask and suggest, for lack of space, will Vrpolje start building? However, if this is not due to the lack of funds or any other reason for the representatives of Vrpolje municipality, it means the headship and the council headed by the chieftain there and then changed the programme of availability and put the country for sale, concession or law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27295	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Petar Mlinarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27296	Thank you, Mr. President. I would only draw one parallel if today this was a really nice mother that we Vukovars had experienced in Alexinca, Nis, Stajic, Sremska Mitrovica, that for days we were exposed to physical attacks, beatings, that one thirty people had left their lives beatings there. We were simply starved where somewhere from 35 kilos of every werewolf in about nine months was easier. And besides, that was awesome. Half the night, they take us out, beat us. There are tapes where they kill each other, stronger, says now you're at work. Normally, one of the majority of people died mentally. And today these people aren't able to live alone out of it. But no one saw it, and that's how I have to say that today's condition is pretty normal, where those 20-year-olds are our feet, they're trampling on us. It wasn't man's dignity. Does anyone go to those prisons to watch what conditions they have? I think we can say today and normally need and improve the conditions here. But what we experienced in Serbia I don't think it's ever happened again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27297	Excuse me. It's Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27298	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Well, here I was as a member of the Justice Committee at the Turopoly Penitentiary two weeks ago, and we had a chance to hear about the state of the prison system. But we are also presented with a part of the action plan, which means improving the conditions in the prison system for the next four years. Now what I said there and what I'm worried about right now is money, so funding the whole story. What was not covered by this action plan are deadlines and funding. And the report on the state of the prison system showed, so the figures showed that the capacity of the prisoners, meaning the transfer of the state of the prison system already in 2004, meant in 2003, it showed signs that something should be done to upgrade the capacity, i.e. building new capacities, so that prisoners could be placed somewhere. The one on which the Department of Justice is in the state budget is about 2.8 billion kuna. On average, it grows 6% a year. Mostly that money is paid, so is the prison system. And it was also mentioned in previous discussions half a billion kuna spent on the prison system is mostly spent on wages. As the items in the state budget stand, I've been drawn out for this year, and now I'm going to show you the indicators, so the items in the prison system for this year. The 2008 rehearsal was reduced compared to 2007, meaning something the minister spoke of by 75%. I couldn't find her in 2009. So the prison system itself as regards assistance, psychological counselling and the like was reduced by 20% in 2009 compared to 2008. What's the story in the penitentiary? Emergency intervention in prison system buildings has been reduced from 2 million to millions of kunas. So it's 50%. This year, only 100000 kunas are scheduled for construction and equipment in Sibenik. The prison in Split provides 300,000 kuna for construction and equipment. The prison in Zagreb is scheduled for 150000 kuna. Speaking of the penitentiary in Lepoglava is that item, adaptation of the building at the level of three million kunas. But what is particularly concerned is the adaptation of a building in Varazdin that has been reduced this year from 2 million to 500,000 kuna. So 75% down. And as let's say the worst data in this state budget is prison in Zadar – adaptation and equipment of zero kuna. Penalty in Požega – adaptation of the building to the women's division of zero kuna. Penalty in Turopoly zero kuna. And a penitentiary in Valtura zero kuna. That's the 2009 data. Now you see it's actually quite difficult to find funding and improving conditions in the prison system and I welcome the Minister's initiative and the desire to start somewhere. Because there's definitely a place to go, and if you don't try anything, you're sure as hell not gonna do anything. In this sense, the first step begins, but the first step is usually not the hardest step. It will be much harder to secure the funds next year. What that means is we heard from the previous debate, that if it is included through the action plan all that is provided for by this action plan, means the system of upgrade, the system of equipment, the system of patching up old debts, the maintenance system, the system of testing as well as the equipment that is the only specific item in the proposal for an action plan, we come up with a figure of some 300 million kuna needed to realize it. From previous discussions, we saw that the cost, and from what the minister said was building a new facility somewhere on a level of 950 million kuna. If we share this with an ambitious plan in the next 4 years, we come to the cost of 300 million kuna per year only for the maintenance and restoration of the prison system. What does that mean? This means that the minister of justice will have to convince Shuker, the finance minister, to give him a higher budget of the justice ministry by 10% next year only at the refurbishment point, i.e. improving conditions in the prison system. If we include linear growth every year of 6% for the Justice Department's item, we come up with a 16% increase in the Justice Department item. In the following year, in which many ministers will have to cut their budgets, it is difficult to expect the Ministry of Justice to grow by 16% and that is what the main problem is. When we went to a penitentiary in Turopolje, I did not drive the Zagreb-Sisak highway, although that road was announced in 2004 and the works were estimated at 1.5 billion kuna, even the headlines in Vjesnik from May 2004, on the Zagreb-Sisak highway in the spring of 2007. It didn't happen, it didn't happen on the highway, either. Probably not from Zagreb to Sisak in 2010, that's what Kalmeta said in the Zadar list and then the works, so the stock itself is something, something went up their price, so the problem was announced and recorded in 2004, the Zagreb-Sisak highway. What we have today has been announced practically today, means 5 years after and an action plan is presented for which significant financial resources are needed. I really support the minister in starting somewhere and I don't think there's anything in this hall that doesn't support him in going and starting with his first step, but the first step is certainly not the hardest one, because next year I'm not sure that he'll be able to secure 300 million kuna additional funds for maintaining and restoring the prison system. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27299	Thank you very much. Now we can probably say 90% that the vote could be at 13 o'clock, since there is still one application and five minutes for the club, so I ask the clubs to ensure the presence of their members, the key to the vote, because we will propose the addition of the agenda and vote on the points that we have concluded and completed. And yet, here's Mrs. Representative Branko Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27300	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I will refer to the protection of the rights of children whose parents are in prison. A child whose parent, brother or sister, grandparents or other close person in prison experiences the world around him and himself in a special way. It faces unpleasant emotions, different environmental reactions and only shows different reactions. The separation from parents for the maintenance of prison sentences is a circumstance in which, in order to protect the child, more bodies, institutions from the system should be involved. European data suggests that 7% of school children have parents who have been or have been in prison. 33% of minors and 61% of female prisoners are parents, and women in prison account for 4% of the total prison population. There are 4.7% in Croatia. The needs of children whose parents are in prison will be analysed on the basis of European experiences and evaluations of existing standards for the protection of this group of children in Croatia. In practice, unfortunately, we often encounter reactions and minimalize the importance of contact between children and parents in prison. But the children of the prisoners are an unrecognizable group of children in society, often discriminated against for the status of their parents and are directly punished for other people’s misdemeanors, separated from their loved ones or in fear of their own parents. The indicator that the children of the prisoners and their needs are not recognized is the fact that in the Law on Penalty, the child is not mentioned in an article that defines family members, but is referred to as relatives in a flat line. The sentence refers to the reasons for the postponement of the sentence. The reasons for the delay are a child under the age of one year the convict cares about. In an article on the protection of motherhood against pregnancy and a child born during the maintenance of the prison sentence and eventually, related to visits to the prisoner and the possibility of underage children visiting parents and the possibility of equipping a place to visit children. We can talk about kids in prison and kids out of prison. Children in prison are children who were born during their mother's prison sentence and under the Penal Code, up to 3 years of age can be with their mothers. The only birth care department in Pozega Penitentiary was assessed as being pleasant and suitable for birth children, but in a social and developmental sense, under-stimulating, for which part mothers who do not use the possibility of going to a nearby kindergarten are responsible, which they are allowed to do. There are many more children outside of prison who are affected in different ways by the stay of one or both parents in prison. There is no accurate record of the exact number of children whose parents are in prison. In Croatian prisons and penitentiary facilities currently resides 4621 prisoners. According to unofficial data, there are now about 6007 children in Croatia separated from parents in prison or detention, but prison system experts estimate there are fewer children. No children are listed here whose brothers or sisters are in educational institutions or juvenile prisons. One way is also to structure visits so that they are focused on the child and the relationship of parents and children through more humanised spatial conditions and fostering joint activities, not conversations between adults. Professional support before, during and after the visit also contributes to maintaining relations. Some countries are focused on foster care in the vicinity of prison, other children’s services, support centres, place of play inside prison, or there are co-ordinators for several prisons that care primarily about the contacts of children and parents in prison. The involvement of volunteers and supervisors experts is also one option. The most important thing is the joint interaction between both the police and the judicial system, courts, institutions of social care, NGOs with programmes of psychosocial treatment of prisoners and support of children, schools and kindergartens and volunteers who help children prisoners. Since we cannot ignore the experience and perception of prisoners and others, it is necessary to explain how much contact with children is right and how much it is related to convenience. Namely, the rules on the benefits of prisoners define convenience as a set of incentive measures aimed at maintaining and promoting relations with the family and, among other things, consisting of more frequent contacts with the outside world. We are sure that, with clear explanations and transparent practice, not just calling for a standard of ambiguity and misunderstanding would be removed. On the other hand, prison conditions, especially in the case of longer prison sentences, should be treated as changed circumstances, so that the scope and manner of meeting and association should be adapted to new circumstances in the life of the family in order to be in the interest of the child. In fact, there is often no professional support for families whose members are in prison. Especially the people the child lives with. We are sure that the implementation of developed programmes and strengthening parental competences of prisoners would create in many situations conditions for supporting the relationship between child and parents in prison and affect future family life and relations. On the state of human rights in the prison system of the Republic of Croatia, the Centre for Human Rights and the Office for Human Rights of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, held a public debate in April 2007 which pointed out the need to take additional efforts to raise human rights standards in the prison system. Realizing that a child cannot escape the reality of his growing up and that he should be referred to the responsibility of adults for his decisions and conduct, he should know at the same time that because of the conduct and conflict with the law, his parents did not stop being parents, nor should the child be punished for being punished for being a parent. In this he needs help and support from adults. It is necessary to always manage the principle of child welfare and to further improve the spatial conditions for contact between children and parents, so that prison is not a scary place for a child and that it is possible for a parent, despite being a prisoner and a law breakinger, to achieve his parental role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27301	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27302	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Supporting what her colleague said about the need to comply with the standards of humanity, especially when it comes to prisoners and inmates who have children. I would like to point out that maybe the other segment is missing, and I think it's one of the greater shortcomings in our prison system, which is the part that would be meant to especially dangerous criminals, so protect the general public and society as a whole. Because unfortunately, we often have a situation where some who are seriously involved in criminal activity continue their activity in prisons of various types of contact and I think what they call in prisons in foreign countries is specially guarded, special purposes, special security that we lack. And my recommendation is to work on building our prison system as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27303	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, five minutes later, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Otherwise, I'm obliged to notify when they start transmitting, it's being transmitted to another program.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27304	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, let me be very brief on behalf of the club. In fact, we believe that it is very worrying and that I think that the responsible, first of all the Government, the Ministry of Justice must take seriously the messages of the attorney general who literally says that the situation in prisons is a serious security problem and is a violation of the rights of prisoners, detainees and convicts on the one hand, so on the other hand, there are more and more lawsuits both in front of domestic courts and in front of international courts. In fact, violations of the Penal Code are numerous. In certain prisons and penitentiary facilities, it can be concluded under all health and hygiene standards, and completely inappropriate to human dignity. So these aren't the words of some rabid opposition, they're the words of a public defender who has knowingly found what is in our prisons and penitentiary. Of course, here we've heard from the debate that it's not for every prison, jail. When certain people find themselves in prison, they don't share the fate of ordinary people anymore. That's the way it is on the loose. However, this abnormal situation in prisons is a normal consequence of an abnormal policy that is being led here by a completely wrong policy that has led to this situation. So, the wrong criminal legal policy, which then requires that both the entire repressive system and the judicial authority deal with minor matters and that the prisons are re-traced and that the Croatian public, although the prisons are full and full, does not experience that justice is in place. If that were the case, I think the government should be concerned that today's press release has been sent by the most prominent professors of the Law School who have raised their voice and will not be given a silence. Namely, who say they are seriously concerned with the procedures and statements that deny the right to speak about the need to let the rule of law go to some courts independently, without any political pressure as the third power in the Republic of Croatia. They talk about whether it is not a case that courts need to decide on leading political reasons, that it should not be a matter of a case where politics is usurped and humiliated by law. They're saying I repeat that they don't want to judge the law, but that they're concerned with procedures and statements, I repeat, which deny the right. In fact, the case of both the report and the occupier, Mr. Minister, also said that the penitentiary and prisons are filled with detainees who have been incarcerated for years and experienced a liberating verdict. This is because the authorities are pressuring the judiciary, and detention is an exceptional measure to ensure the presence of the defendants, not to demonstrate power and to demonstrate the determination that we are determined to fight corruption and organised crime. Because such procedures prove completely transparent, very, very, very short-term. So those who were supposed to be in custody weren't because they ran away. And those who obviously weren't supposed to be in custody were in custody. And such lawlessness will be paid by the citizens of this Croatia, but much, much more than these funds, we pay for the general uncertainty in which Croatia was found to be responsible, i.e. by the irresponsibility of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27305	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, the State Secretary at the Department of Justice, Mr. Zoran Piculjan, will continue to address the final address. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27306	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs and counsellors. Here I am extremely pleased that this report has caused this kind of attention and active engagement of clubs, committees and a good part of the MPs. We've been listening very closely, I'm not happy it's a 2007 report, but I must immediately state that the 2008 report will follow somewhere in the first half of the year as it will continue to be a good practice for this Ministry of Justice. I thank you for the recommendations and suggestions of the Committee, in particular the Committee on Justice and the Committee on the Family, Youth and Sports, and I think that all these recommendations, we will vote on this later, that all these recommendations and proposals are very acceptable and that the Ministry of Justice will consider and install them in the action plan, fill them out with all those proposals and recommendations that have been made here today and which are most acceptable. What the report contained even if it contained a lot of data and figures did, however, indicate. that that indicator of the situation, which pointed to the situation in the prison system, pointed to the underlying problems of his. These are the overcrowding of the entire system and thus the threat of the standards themselves and the need for greater professional representation not only of the judicial police, the people dealing with the security aspects of this system but also of the number of specific professions mentioned here and the ones that are needed here. What the report also indicates is that the system is flawed, that it has its own problems but that the situation, especially from the point of view of security in that year, was not worrying. What the report has also been a good indicator precisely for its completion with the proposed action plan received here by this Parliament. The action plan will include, as the minister said, the actions of this ministry and the Croatian government in the next period, and we think that the situation can indeed be improved but only provided that all measures are implemented in the short, medium and long term as possible. Such a thing will normally be necessary and will complement the action plan and will be complemented in 2008, in a report in 2008, with dynamics, deadlines and financial indicators that will indicate how much this system will need to be invested within that four-year period to be at the level that we all expect. It is absolutely certain that these funds are not small and how they will be found you will see them and at least try to find the most you will see in the implementation of the 2008 plan. Just two more, three sentences about the action plan. In the short term, we plan as the minister said to reorganise the entire administration for the prison system, open it and turn it to prevention, education and supervision, it is possible that, in the four coming years, as an independent institution, it may care for this specific part of the judicial system. By the 6th month next year almost certainly will be built a penitentiary in Glina. There will be an expert teaming that has been recommended here to team up a professional array of penitentiary, a series of prisons, and the administration itself. And what seemed equally important to us and what one of the MPs and MPs mentioned is to ensure effective, independent external surveillance. It will be done, the legal mode will be found. Whether it will be a law or a regulation of the Government we will see, but it is independence by the standards of the Council of Europe of the European Union. In the next few months, that job will be over. The public and this Parliament will be informed. What seems most important to us is that the digestive system begins to live and that in three or four years it replaces this system and complements it with one activity that seems to be very important and it is controlled, supervised freedom. This will require legislative intervention. But what is extremely important seems to me that there will be neither reform nor modernisation, nor repairs in the prison system unless all of this is followed by strong intervention in the entire judicial system. And that's the point of the measures that are proposed and tied up, and those measures that are indirectly and directly now seem to be made by the Ministry of Justice in fact will also affect the quality of the prison system very directly. Thank you. And I'd like you to accept the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27307	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide later.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27308	And the report on the work of penitentiary, prison and educational institutions for 2007. I am voting on the first conclusion in line with the proposal of the Parliament's early bodies: The report on the work of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2007. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 70 for, 10 abstentions, 22 against. This report has been accepted. I am voting on the Action Plan to improve the prison system of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? 72 votes for, 19 abstentions, 6 against. This action plan has also been adopted. The Committee for Family, Youth and Sports has proposed to the Croatian Assembly to reach a conclusion. I would ask the applicant's representative to show himself on this proposal for a conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27309	We accept except for point 5, we accept everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27310	Except for point 5?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27311	In addition to measure 5, keeping records of the number and characteristics of children whose parents are in prison and contact with parents due to technical inability to do so. We accept all five other points as a suggestion.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27312	Proposer representative, Ms Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27313	Look, since the Ministry's representative says they don't have technical opportunities, I don't think it's wise to make a conclusion that you say at the beginning that you can't carry out, so it'll be good if you spend the rest of what you're accepting.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-13-0.u27314	Okay. Then I am voting on all these proposals, except for this point 5. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 104 votes for and 2 abstentions, these proposed conclusions have been reached. The vote is over. The seat's breaking up. Continuing Tuesday at 9.30 p.m.
