ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29088	... colleagues and colleagues. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] In the framework of the anti-recession package, the SDP also proposed the Law on the prolongation of housing loans in 2009 with a desire to facilitate the implementation of the obligations towards banks for citizens of Croatia who are in charge of credit. In my presentation on behalf of the club today, I will try to avoid all the numbers for one reason only so that I do not actually turn to corrections on how many unemployed are, how many citizens are in charge, and how deep is the recession. I unequivocally think that today we can agree that Croatia has been affected by recession and that such a recession, however any one of us considers it larger or smaller, has negative effects on both the economy and the citizens of Croatia. It is evident that the number of unemployed in Croatia is very high and that some of those recently registered at the Employment Service probably did not think they would be unemployed, they entered certain credit relations to buy an apartment and have now come into a more unfavourable position because they simply lost their jobs because employers reduced their economic activities and it was necessary to reduce the number of jobs. It is also evident that Croatia as a country is in charge, especially I would say in foreign currency, and in this I would say that part of the huge number of debts are borne by Croatian citizens, which means that Croatian citizens have a strong burden on the home budget with credit payments. And of course, then we come to a situation where there is no job, there is no income that can be used to service bank loans, and yet we appreciate that the housing issue is so important and that many citizens who went to the equity settlement of the housing issue should be supported. However, we believe that one of the anti-recession measures should be further purchase of apartments, further entry into the purchase of their own living space and, of course, when we think about it, then it is very important that we try to find a quality relationship between the citizens of Croatia and the banking system that primarily want orderly credit service. In fact, the reason for the club to propose this law is because some major banks in their business terms predicted for 2009 if Croatian citizens are not able to service loans based on housing to them in 2009, means even if these two payments were transferred to the end of the repayment period and thus allowed the banks to provide their own business conditions for Croatian citizens to be neat, to serve credit, and that the difficulties from this year moved to the end of the repayment period, believing that we would skip 2009 as the years of negative consequences of the recession in the Republic of Croatia. Also, the SDP Club is aware that this is something that will make it stronger, stronger banks, that its operating conditions will be stronger banks more correct in relation to the citizens of Croatia and their debtors. But we are afraid that a good part of the rest of the banking system will not be able to do so, and then we estimate that there will be an inequality in Croatia depending on which citizen the bank has taken responsibility. We also felt that if the government were already intervening with recession, anti-recession measures that this would also be one of the possible anti-recession measures in which the government would oblige banks to change their operating conditions and thus force the bank, any bank or financial institution that deals with the accreditation of housing building to make its believer care and that the inability of unemployment, the service of loans would move to the end of the repayment period and at that point has regular, quality service, and the banking system in some way relocated demand at the end of the period. At the same time, we estimate that in the last two months, the highest government budget has been in debt to the banks. Therefore, significant funds of the banking system have been employed by the state budget. At the same time, due to a certain skating rate, the level of bank debt has been increased, so now the problem and certain restrictions in monetary policy that do not allow banks to borrow. Thus, many of the banks will have problems in how to comply with monetary policy obligations, how to limit placements, and we believe that such a measure of fiscal authority means the Croatian Government and the Croatian Parliament would simply impose that obligation on banks. There would be no repayment of credit and we believe that monetary policy would also be in line with one of these fiscal measures and that, in some ways, the necessary increase in bank debt would be present since there is no repayment of credit. Perhaps a few introductory words that this is also a general debate on a complete package of SDP anti-recession measures because we estimate that there have been a lot of misunderstandings in the last debate that the whole package is not unique in some way, that it is not consistent because there are certain additional regulations missing. So then I would make it very clear that a package of SDP anti-recession measures has been adopted and proposed to protect the economy, in order to protect citizens and in order to, I would say, save the public sector. So we could say that in that part it refers to major changes in tax or fiscal policy, a good part of this package has already been processed in the Croatian Parliament, unfortunately not accepted and rejected. And if you remember, all those tax laws tried to figure out how to cut the cost of the economy without touching the net salary. And of course, it is always a health contribution and a proposal for SDP laws to move health contributions from labour costs to property taxes and thus to relieve the economy in this difficult situation. Another package that hasn't even been discussed since it doesn't have the government's opinion, one of the eight proposals of the parafiscal laws that we expect to reduce in this year, for the reason that we should re-exploit the economy. And of course, when we talk about fiscal laws and citizens, then the proposals between energy and children's food and shoes to make it easier for citizens to survive in 2009, I would say the drop in living standards and home incomes. We turn this law towards the attitude of citizens and banks, we estimate that after the latest very clear announcements of the banks that they will collect housing loans, and given that I would say flexible interest and, let's be honest with the euro, that it is evident that we should do something in the area of payment or new additional costs for Croatian citizens. And it is also evident that tax laws and taxation, with high taxation of any interest that seems acceptable to us at this recession time, would in some way have to affect the banking system in order not to burden citizens or the economy with too much interest or, let's be honest, to make extra profits in 2009 when both business and citizens will have enormous burdens and enormous difficulties in carrying the negative effects of this recession in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, one of the additional laws is the protection of interest rates and the taxation of everything above what we might expect, and only in order to prevent extra bank profits. We therefore see that fiscal measures in many ways we can control the market and not allow someone to go better in the recession and that all the burden falls on entrepreneurs and on Croatian citizens. When we talk about our measures to the end, I would say quality saving behaviour of the public sector, then there are a number of measures that speak about and companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, but also the entire public sector through the budget of the Republic of Croatia and kill the proposal that we expected the government to deliver through the budget by half this month, try in some way all the packages, the whole package of these laws that have been tabled through the budget. Of course, given that a good part of our proposals has already been rejected, we estimate that only savings in the budget will have no more impact on the reduction of the burdens of citizens and entrepreneurs and of course, it is evident that so far the Government's decisions on recession measures are insufficient because there are no implementations or documents on these measures that are already here, we also record the first negative ratings, the financial rating of the Republic of Croatia. And perhaps a few more words, given the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on our proposal and on behalf of the SDP promoter, can indeed say that we accept the Government of the Republic of Croatia's suggestion that the 11th month or 1st November should not be a date that in some way would divide the citizens again into those who have the right or are not, so we estimate that all citizens who are in the employment office, because this means a certain change in their debt, have the right to prolongation of credit at the end of the repayment period. And we estimate that the government's suggestion in that part and the government's remarks that we should not share Croatian citizens again is a good solution for us, and in our second reading we would really suggest that all citizens who are in the office because it is a change, because those who were formerly unable to conclude the loan agreement because the bank did not give them credit, that now if we allow Croatian citizens to prolong credit at the end of the repayment period. In this way, given that only this remark was made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I believe that we would not make a difference between citizens and that then our proposal is acceptable and that, in the second reading, we could, with these amendments, adapt the text to the opinion of the Government. Always remains a fundamental question, does a recession of such fiscal policies affect the financial market? We estimate that, yes, the behavior of banks that only think about themselves is an even greater confirmation that we have to intervene on that market. And I repeat, the good part of the banks this way of communicating with citizens has already been applied because they have changed the general conditions of business. One part of the banks will not be possible because of monetary policy and also because of their own liquidity problems. And we believe that then the fiscal government must offer a solution for the citizens, however, and that citizens must be our priority to resolve. And that is why we believe it is possible to make a positive statement about this bill. This is also the possibility of the Financial Institutions Act, and I think that these are very clear messages at the time of both the Government and the Parliament on care, about citizens, in order to mitigate the negative consequences of the recession in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29089	Thank you. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Mr. Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29090	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I would just briefly say that, in view of the fact that the esteemed representative Linic has practically interpreted and interpreted, i.e. read, therefore, the government of the Republic of Croatia's testimony which does not support this proposal for the reasons he has conveyed well. However, I would like to say a few more things on this proposal for a bill on the prolongation of housing loans. So, also in the opening statement, and I believe in the ongoing debate that will take place today, there will be a reference to both housing and housing, and in general about social policy in order to mitigate the consequences of this current economic situation if you want financial and economic crises. I think that all of this now that I have listed practically the Government of the Republic of Croatia has already implemented in a new package of anti-recession measures and that there has been only a presentation of these measures and now their implementation that is going on because it is certainly impossible to do and to spend overnight. Certain measures are certainly necessary and require a certain time period but you also know very well that there is a particular emphasis in them, among other things, on reviving the real estate market and at the same time, of course, further housing of Croatian citizens while it is also necessary to say that the whole package of anti-recession measures is permeated so we can say to one basic thought and therefore, in these conditions, everything is focused practically on keeping jobs within the scope of, therefore, as far as possible and also on the mitigation of all possible consequences of the current situation, so that this social component is in any case evident and seen from the anti-recession programme or measures of the Government. As far as fiscal policy measures are concerned, I think there will be plenty of speeches about them. You yourself know and monitor the current course and development of events related to budget rebalancing. Let me just say unbound on this budget rebalancing that we're doing right now, so a whole series of measures that may not have been so soundy and may not be with so much attention and attention seen but, in any case, attention should be paid to them. So, since the end of last year when certain problems and difficulties and liquidity in service not only of the state's debt and the need to refinance but in general of the whole sector, I think that a number of measures are as short-term as we can say in the medium term have affected this one mitigation of these consequences. And there have been several speeches in this House about significant growth and pressures on interest growth, above all, on that overnight and interbank market, because it was simply between the other and the consequences of the current activities, but it should also be said that the government is within its capabilities and that is, within the framework of the fiscal policy which they manage and which has actually been at its disposal just influenced by the mitigation of these pressures because also with the banks that we are constantly working with and with the whole financial market simply within our capabilities we call on them constantly but in fact, proactively acting to ease these pressures. I think the results have been and can still be seen. But it's not a story that's finished, it's something that we have to keep doing and certainly the banks are aware of all the dangers and that banks can say the same thing. On the other hand, banks are, of course, private institutions, profitable institutions whose profit is in the interest but the state is in every way trying, knowing and aware of its opportunities and its measures that it can implement in order to ultimately have the whole effect, the negative effect being as minimal as possible. And finally, what I said and the opening, let me just say it again. So, the whole package of anti-recession measures that we have cited as new precisely for the very reason that it is given an emphasis that it is not something now that is suddenly put on the table and start implementing rather than already implementing certain measures. We also said that it is not even a final proposal for anti-recession measures but it is necessary to consider and further see in the development of situations that can still be measures and general activities implemented in order to actually make this one and I would say very likely and next year passed as painlessly as possible. Thank you very much. So much for an introduction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29091	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29092	Thank you very much. Mr. President, dear secretary of state, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament held a discussion at the 28th session on 12 March 2009 of the Proposed Law on the Prolongation of Payments of Residential Loans in 2009 as a home working body. In the debate on the board, the opinion prevailed that there was no need to apply the state... Since it is exclusively a contractual relationship between business banks and committees and for the application of the prolongation of annuity payments for residential loans to a business bank in Croatia already have a legal option under the general conditions of business but also financially, given their financial potential and profits achieved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided by a majority of votes of 7 votes in favour and 3 votes against proposing to the Croatian Parliament the conclusion that no draft law on the prolongation of the payment of residential loans proposed by the SDP Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament was adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29093	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of HDZ, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29094	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The SDP advocates' club submitted a proposal for a law on the prolongation of housing loans in 2009 suggesting that residents who lost their place of employment and located at the Employment Office from 1 November 2008 to 31 December 2009, that they have the possibility of prolonging the assets of housing loans that they reach during 2009. And as explained in the bill's proposal, the bill was drawn up as a consequence of the global economic crisis that has affected Croatia, and because of the increase in the number of unemployed who, if they have housing loans, would question the possibility of paying off annuities under these same loans. To assume that such a bill has come because of the assessment that banks are able to do so and because of the extremely good results and profits they have achieved and that they are able to do so without endangering their business regularly. The HDZ Club believes that the application of this proposal would undermine many and at least 4 fundamental principles of the legal system. The principle of non-discrimination would be violated, as this proposed law would discriminate on the users of credit, as it would lead them into an unequal position and would divide them into two groups. The first group of those who would not be entitled to the possibility of prolonging the annuity of residential loans, as they had lost their jobs before 1 November 2008 and those who would have the possibility and the right to prolongation of housing loans, as they had lost their jobs after 1 November 2008. It would come with this proposal for a law on the prolongation of housing loans and a breach of the principle of proportionality, as the proposed law represents disproportionate direct state intervention on the market, as it violates constitutionally legally guaranteed freedom of negotiation and ownership rights. On behalf of SDP, counterpart Linic said here shortly before that the banks had already booked funds for the possibility of paying off housing loans and annuity. They have reserved these funds because they have these funds and have the opportunity to do so. Then there's no need to pass a special law that would force them to do something like that when they're already preparing it themselves and they can do it themselves. And it's also said what I agree with, that there are banks that can't do it. Then it would be quite careless if we legally prescribed that they must do so, although they do not have the opportunity, because it would only question the functioning of the banking system in the Republic of Croatia, and we know that the banking system, a stable banking system, is a prerequisite for a stable economy and a basic precondition for the stability of the state itself. This bill would lead to the principle of breach of the pact of sum servanda, contracts must be respected. With this bill, the contracts would not be respected, and we know that in Western developed countries, even in business, the principle of meum ictumpactum applies, my word is a contract, and here we would be in a situation where the contract is not even a foundation that is valid, but it would be changed by law. This guaranteed right applies particularly to private legal relations, and the relationship between business banks and committees is exclusively a private legal relationship. There would also be a breach of the principle of legal certainty, as the application of the new law would lead to retroactive application. And this would result in retroactive application of the law which, according to constitutional legal provisions, is allowed only in exceptional situations. In addition to these reasons, the need to analyse the financial, i.e. the banking sector is imposed in order to take a more objective view of the problem of housing loans and the possibility of prolonging the payment of annuity to those who really need it. It should therefore be pointed out that business banks were also the main source of housing financing in the Republic of Croatia, so 53 billion kunas of housing loans were granted by the end of February 2009. And to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia with an average effective interest rate of 7.8% between 2001 and 2008. It should also be stressed that business banks in the Republic of Croatia do not have private housing lending policies, but that housing credit policy is an integral part of the overall rules and general business policies of banks. It concerns the fact that business banks in Croatia stimulate different forms of short-term lending to the population in various ways, such as non-intentional loans or famous so-called the current account minuses, and that the population is increasingly inaccessible long-term housing loans. There are good indications that there are different approaches, because these days we have witnessed a change in housing policy towards the population of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to housing credits, because some banks have announced and have already begun to negotiate lower interest rates and which will certainly lead to a favourableity and realisation of the sale of large numbers of apartments that have been built and not sold. And also to the possibility of the residents solving their basic need for an apartment. They would also point out that in the Republic of Croatia housing loans account for only 35% of the total lending of the population in the Republic of Croatia. This is the data that suggests that, contrary to the countries in the eurozone, the total share of housing loans in total lending to the population is as much as 75%. This means that in Croatia, the share of housing loans in the total lending of the population is twice as low as in the euro area countries. It should also be pointed out that on residential loans, business banks on residential loans in 9 years earned a profit of 10.5 billion kuna. And when it comes to the fact that they've earned 10.5 billion kuna on housing loans, and in total in nine years, 23.6 billion kuna, it points to the conclusion that banks have space, that it's enough to find ways and places to go to meet or definancing or to reprogramme those who need it most that are not able to regularly repay housing assets. We also think that these results are sufficient, that foreign exchange clauses, or variable interest rates do not need to be introduced. Because variable interest rates in the last nine years are exclusively used by business banks when the situation is used to change interest rates to more, and there have been no cases of change in interest rates to lower ones. The HDZ Club therefore considers that there is no need for certain application of State interventionism and which contains this bill. Because in this case, it is only in the contractual relationship between business banks and committees. The banking sector should be left to the market. And we are convinced that the market will indeed lead to the fact that the offer of money will also determine the level of interest rates. And the very fact that Croatian population and Croatian economic operators save more than ever, which today is only a deposit in business banks worth 175 billion kuna, this tells us that there is a good credit potential that will allow business banks to also reprogramme citizens to pay off the annuity of residential loans, as well as the monitoring of economic projects in the Republic of Croatia that are hundreds and waiting for business banks to follow them with credit ratings. Therefore, it is undeniable that business banks in Croatia for the application of the prolongation, the repayment of annuity for housing loans already have the possibility under their general terms of business but also financially, given all the data we have provided here. It is undeniable that the financial crisis has affected the world, it is undeniable that the financial crisis has come to Croatia, but it should also be stressed once more just to confirm that the business banks in Croatia have the potential and the potential for credit and financial potential to offer a prolongation of housing loans to those who need it because the latest business data from 2009 suggest that even in the terms of the financial crisis, the business banks in Croatia are doing well even better than in the same period last year. In January, they gained 440 million kuna in profits, unlike in January 2008, when they achieved 314 million kunas, which is as much as 40% more than in the same period last year. Therefore, it is also indisputable that business banks in Croatia have room to lower interest rates on interest rates on interest loans as well as on the potentially necessary concessions of citizens regarding the prolongation of annuity, and this is most likely confirmed by the fact that business banks that employ slightly less than 1% of the total population of the Republic of Croatia are taking in as much as 15% of the profits generated by the economy of the Republic of Croatia. Due to all of the above, the HDZ Club will vote in favour of the conclusion that the proposal for a law on prolongation of the payment of housing loans is not accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29095	Thank you. The SDSS Club and Mr. Representative Mile Horvat are on the job. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29096	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. We at the club need to look back at this proposal for a bill on the prolongation of housing loans. We believe that this proposed text of the law in its proposal, in its notation, is quite short and that the whole one, attempt, that one whole problem is put into several articles that has not been effectively done this time. We think that the implications are broader than what we are suggested here, however, is also the feeling that this idea that is going through this proposal is a very good idea and a very good gesture of social sensitivity at the moment and on one such gesture and trying to articulate it in this way should be congratulated on you as an opposition. But we don't think it would be a good idea to just be the main goal of the promoter to draw attention to this problem and without the actual possibility to deal with the problem normably. Why do I say that? Because we think there are a few dilemmas here, more specifically two formal legal natures, a dilemma that we've heard some explanations about and we expect to clarify them by the end of the debate. And the third dilemma is essential, i.e. the content of nature. First, the very credit relationship in the formal legal sense where we have creditors and debitors and who enter clear and clean credit relations, contractual relations, the moment they dispose their will to the public notary, it becomes a strictly formal, formal contract. And that I don't go back to the Latin postulate that's said here and that's actually the basic rule of bonds, that the concluded contracts have to be fully respected. We believe that each and all of these proposed State interventions in such firm contractual obligations, where the parties freely distributed their will in the extreme case to the security of the legal system, the security of the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, and that the expected equivalent of any benefit would not be realised. The question is also whether banks, what is our dilemma, whether banks in such cases have the right to expect and some sort of compensation of damage or some kind of escape gain because they can't earn or charge interest, collect interest, collect payments, or earn all the money invested at a certain and expected moment that they expected. So also the danger of being also possible, if the state intervenes through this law in such a relationship that the state is then possible and responsible for the damages of such banks. Since it is mostly foreign-owned banks, it is realistic to expect that they will certainly know how to show such damage to the intervention or to the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Our second formal legal dilemma is that Article 1 of this law states that the obligation of credit institutions is to prescribe in their general terms the possibility of prolonging annuities for housing loans to natural persons, etc. etc. We believe that this definition is as most of the definition of commitments for banks pro future, so for some future time and that it could not be retroactively related to the target period from 1.11.2008 to 31.12.2009. We think that part, that first article, which is actually the very saying of the law, should be no-technically arranged, that it would actually make some kind of formal-legal sense. The question is also whether this bill makes discrimination and some other social groups located outside this proposed date and which are without a job or are in some unfavourable working-law status that not only have to be cancellations. The same question arises: What about their guarantees and their judges? What is the fate of these bailiffs and judges, because no one can convince me that the bank won't reach for its insurance instruments and charge for it from the judiciary and the bailiffs. You can see that in the end today. Today, banks are so agile and up-to-date in the collection of their claims to debitors, that they have already activated and engaged all means of insurance, debtors, etc. within 30 days. And we're afraid that the banks are in a mood to help the public at this point is not standing. I don't know how it's gonna be in a while. It also raises the question of what about peasants as a category that went into business through the OPG, which owed all its private assets, mortgaged them to obtain loans for re-promatter machines, for reproduction of production, etc. What about milkmen who are in charge of raising mini farms, and now through some more unfavourable situation on the dairy market or stimulating milk purchases, they can't pay those loans. What about cattlemen who give their breeding herds into guarantees, and the state does not allow them to export cattle, i.e. sheep specifically, so they have a problem with paying off their loans. Why do I say that? Because a large part of the population is like alternative employment the moment he was fired before this date, which is listed here, he founded the OPG and sought his own way of living through the OPG. Therefore, we believe that such a form of work, so the family agricultural economy is also one another, under quotes from another labour market in this country that should also be taken into account. What about pensioners who come in bigger, increased interest rates and can't pay off their pensions long ago, because interest rates are so much that they've almost doubled their assets for loans. We think, therefore, that it might be to think that this text is done in a way that, as intervention measures towards bank business policies, there are also mostly some measures that would force them not to increase already agreed interest rates, to make more flexible use of these means of credit insurance to debtors, debitors, or credit users. And what I think is very important is that banks should make them do business according to this time and not leave the impression that the most important security is their profits. Finally, banks should, in any case, operate on the market of the Republic of Croatia on the same principles on which they operate on the market of their countries of origin, on the same business morality and on the same business rules, and this would be in some way a correction that could intervene here according to the business policies of banks. And let me get this straight. We think this idea of the promoter is good. However, better quality, content, or nomotechnical work needs to be done. If we're even gonna... We think that the aim of the promoter is clear, but it is not comprehensive enough, it does not cover all social categories. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I must point out within the Serbian community that we have significantly more credit-related people based on agricultural production or significantly more pensioners as debutors than the working-active population who lost their jobs in one period. I'm afraid so. Unfortunately, the Serb minority still cannot boast that in a good part of it it can exercise the right to work. Therefore, there is no possibility of her being in charge. Therefore, much of the Serb population in the Republic of Croatia will not come under the pressure of positive measures of such an intervention law. The issue of employment, the implementation of the employment action plan, etc., is a serious issue that is certainly seeking debate and we will not open it now. But it is important to stress in the context of these measures proposed by the Proposer. So here's the idea we take as very positive, but with a reserve that it's arranged as we think it should be arranged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29097	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29098	I thank Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, a brief review of the exhibitors of the previous two clubs. When we talk about the debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, I would say four problems this law would cause with regard to the market economy of citizens and authorities, then I would just like to say the following. The inequality that has been expressed in the law, the SDP club has seen it, accepted the remark, and we do not think that on 1 November we should be sharing the date on which those who have lost their jobs or not but to be unemployed. So it's those who are at the Employment Service, and that's why we're not going to get that inequality of people who are affected by the crisis, they're not and what's the start date of the crisis. So I think the amendments to the final bill would remove that inequality. Now we come to the next inequality. The assessment that large banks will change their standards remains very clear that there will remain small banks that will not change that. We also heard from the HDZ Club debate that some banks can't change that. And we now believe that, that's why state interventionism needs to protect citizens regardless of the possibility of a bank, regardless of the bank's ability, because at this point it's ours to define ourselves, or we're going to stay through market economies and respect for contracts, or we're going to protect citizens that if the bank can't do that, we're on the side of the bank. So here's a very clear SDP message. We want state interventions to protect the citizens, and let the banks manage. So all we have to do is give the next answer. Is recession something that requires state interventionism? We say yes, the recession is that. We too must feel who it is that will have negative consequences. We say citizens and entrepreneurs, and therefore it takes intervention by the state government to side with those who will experience the most difficult consequences, which are citizens and the economy, and the banks will not feel so much of the problem. Therefore, they will have to be organised slightly differently, and so I say that we are violating some market freedoms, but we estimate that the recession requires it from the authorities and that it is the behaviour of the authorities to turn to those who suffer negative consequences. The HDZ Club says we won't respect the contracts that have been concluded with these measures. Well, you see, the main problem is that a citizen who lost his job and didn't think he'd be out of a job can't execute a contract. So we're assessing a citizen won't be able to pay off the war. He won't be able to honor the contract. He won't respect him, it's unequivocal. And now with a proposal like this, what are we doing? We make them conclude a new contract with state measures, State intervention and pay off their inability to transfer to the end of the repayment period. So we're just forcing them to renegotiate the contract and respect the contract. Because if we don't, the citizen can't pay, there's no respect for the contract. The citizen will not be able to implement his obligation. When we talk about legal certainty, there isn't, I'd say, legal uncertainty. We only regulate the market, because we estimate that the recession requires it from us, by State intervention we try to balance the market. Why? Because our goal is to protect those who suffer the most from recession, because we estimate that the housing problem, problem number one, and we can't leave it without a solution. And because we appreciate that further investment in housing is both the interest of the banking system and the citizens and the government themselves. That's why we're assessing, there's no legal uncertainty, there's no legal uncertainty. As far as the SDSS club is concerned, I'd just like to point out that the strongest insurance the banks have is fiducial property. Thus, the bank's fiducial ownership is owned by the apartments, the banks are the owners of the apartments. What's going on now? One non-payment gives the bank the right to take the apartment. He gives the bank the right to take the apartment. Now, shall we talk about the problem that will arise? The citizen is left without an apartment, the apartment is not worth as much as it was valued when the bank loaned. Prices of living space have dropped, new buildings continue to lower housing prices, banks will not be able to fully close their claims. We'll also have a balance sheet problem at the banks. We think this measure is good for the bank too because she won't close her loan. He won't close, even though he owns the apartment. So we see so many problems in this field that we estimate that this is also a measure that is good and for banks, if you understand, because simply by fiducial property many will not be able to collect their claims. But something else will happen. Whoever paid 80 percent of the loan now won't be able to pay off, the bank will take his apartment and go sell it. You can imagine what this will mean for a Croatian citizen. And that's why we think the reason we're trying to preserve housing and this law of ours is about housing, and that's the answer. It's hard to talk about peasants and their investment in both equipment and in, I would say machines, because it's just a problem of the economy and how to find solutions is the problem. But the suggestion is in place, we think the villagers have huge problems, huge problems, and the production on the ground is important, and we'll try to see what we do. But I was already speaking in the opening statement, for all of them the biggest problem is interest and the possibility of changing interest rates, and that's something that we should settle by other laws, which is by taxes on extra profits. If we estimate that this recession of the bank on interest is making extra money, it is evident that the huge taxes on this particular profit can reduce the bank's pressure to change interest rates. And here, based on your suggestion, we're going to try that bill, but not in this, it's a completely different law, it's a law from the domain of fiscal policies. So I estimate that we must try to figure out what a housing loan means, how much a problem it is for Croatian citizens who can lose their apartment, and how much a problem it will be for banking business if they fail to recover their funds through insurance.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29099	Thank you. One notice before further notice. The chairman of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget convened a meeting of the Committee at 13:30 today in the board president's office, room 244 on the second floor. It's Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29100	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Given that here we have, so far, heard the very clear position of the government, the HDZ Club and the SDSS Club, I will have a slightly different approach in front of the HNS club on this issue because it seems to me that there is no point in repeating the same data and that we are now losing ourselves in this, in my opinion absolutely irrelevant detail. Comrades and colleagues, the tidal wave of crisis has not yet reached our shores in full effect. I hope we agree on that. We've got a front here, what? One attempt to prevent concrete measures from harming one area where the damage will be evident, so I understood my colleagues from the SDP, I hope I understood that well. On the contrary, we heard from the Secretary of State that the government is not accepting your concrete proposals and that it will address this issue with its anti-recession measures. What's the difference between two proposals? One proposal is concrete, I say neither good nor bad but concrete. Other colleagues and colleagues are virtually proposed, it is talked about, heard about by the cults, but no such measures have been adopted or realised in practice. Therefore, there is an attempt here to point to the seriousness of the situation, to attempt concrete measures to prevent damage. And to whom does this potential damage affect a colleague and a colleague? Who took home loans? Mostly young families. Remember when you were 25, 30 years old how you solved your housing issue, how you equipped your apartment, how much trouble you were in. ... Mr. Cain is throwing it at me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I can agree with you only in one, that a large part of the people sitting here 15 years ago for a few thousand marks came to the apartment, that I agree with you and young people today can't do it and that's why we have to stand in their defense and we have to help them in every way. Last week we discussed young people, we talked about 150 new study groups, we talked about a very large number of young people who today have more and higher education, we talked about the need to keep them in the country, we talked about the need to get those who left the country back. But with these measures here we want to at least do something to make it happen. Unfortunately, there seems to be no hearing from the majority. Do any of us outside this assembly even care about the collapse of the real estate market? I don't think so, not the state, not the banks, not the economy, not the individuals. That's probably where we agree. So let's at least find some touch points. SDP colleagues therefore put a proposal ahead of us. On this proposal, I will read one more sentence of our Finance Committee. The colleagues say, "The discussion on the board prevailed that there is no need for the application of state interventionism since it is exclusively a contractual relationship between business banks and committees.". Who the hell are your clients? They're Croatian citizens. Aren't we here to take care of Croatian citizens, especially those in this case who are really going to come into a very difficult position and it's not about one, two or five individuals, it's about hundreds and hundreds of young families who are likely to be in this situation. Therefore, my colleagues and colleagues from the HNS wouldn't intervene here at all, nor would they oppose this or that attitude if it were a suit loan, a new TV set, but it's about colleagues and colleagues about an essential existential problem. I repeat, the fundamentally existential traffic of young people. That's important. That's where we have to have hearing. I'm not saying that this or that proposal is better or worse, but the hearing we have to start to solve and prevent. I agree with the government that it should not be tied to the deadline proposed by the SDP here but also the SDP colleagues have made it clear that we also accept the proposals to amend it. Then why debate in the House if we do not hear each other, if we do not suggest solutions that will be better, which will be accepted by the Proposer and the Proposer shows good will to accept our proposals. Therefore, I ask all colleagues who really believe that some of the elements in this proposal can be improved, improved, improved, accepted, agreed, let's just not leave everything at the level of virtual measures we hear too much about these days but unfortunately nothing in practice is being implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29101	Thank you. SDP club Mr. Representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29102	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, respected ministry representatives, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today, in Croatia, the GDP is growing with a negative sign for the first time since 1999. These developments in the economy are likely to result in job closures and have resulted in job layoffs. Only the gas crisis that should also be reminded of this year has erupted from the hands of the 2 billion kuna economy due to the inadequacy of the reaction. The damage to the economy is moving at 2 billion kuna. If we add this to the official announcement of the devaluation of some of the neighbouring countries that have so far been in tourist destinations throughout Croatia, it is also expected that this tourist season could be below our most optimistic expectations. Therefore, this law is also on the proposal and on the trail of prolonging the anuity of housing loans due in 2009 to persons who lost their jobs and all in order to mitigate the consequences of the current recession. Why? Because 52,000 people in Croatia are working and not getting paid. Why? Because the number of unemployed in the last three months, the number of newly unemployed is over 22,000, according to some estimates, is 35,000. Why? Because the estimates are that by the end of the year between 50 and 100 thousand people will be out of work. Why? Because 42.6% of all loans the banks approve make up 53 billion-dollar housing loans. Why? Because the interest on the housing loans grew. Why? Because staying out of work is not only a bad position for debtors, but also for debtors, guarantees. And why? Because banks deal with huge profits. The banks must be ready to share the fate of the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens and are ready. The only question is whether the fate of the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens is ready to share the government. If he doesn't support this proposal, then he probably isn't. This is what national sovereignty is for, this is what national sovereignty is for, because the banking system is based on trust. If there's no trust, there's no business. And to those who take real estate, it will surely be harder to decide to enter into a new investment, which will derivate all the processes of investment in construction, in housing, in every sense. No one is going to lose this proposal, we're going to extend payments, but we're going to prevent panic, and we're going to protect the citizens. And I think that's the most important thing. As we supported the proposal when the guarantee for current accounts went up to 400 thousand kuna, which was a good proposal, then let us propose one of these proposals that will protect the citizens, and all because this enables us to position our national sovereignty. Why? To protect the citizens, to protect those who have lost their jobs, those whose families will lose their income, those who will lose their roof over their heads tomorrow, the debtors, the bailiffs, the young families, all the citizens of this country. That's why. Here comes the news today that Croatia has reduced its credit rating to Triple BA3 according to the report "Standard & Poor". Gentlemen and I want to say this, it can't go through with politics if we don't do anything, we certainly won't make a mistake. Because every month it doesn't work, inaction costs us at least six months of recovery. And we don't have time. And please, don't run away from the problem, but solve problems, and in this country you should go to the problem once, not the problem. In the direction of the solution, not the direction of the problem. And I'd like to say in the end, that we want to prevent panic and increase trust in this law, we don't want to end up having to solve the consequences and put out the fire. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29103	Thank you. Club IDS Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29104	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, everyone kind of speaks at this current economic moment, I think that's exactly what this law is all about. Let's be serious, the devil has come by himself, and I think someone should be serious about what we've been saying as advocates during the debate on the budget there at the end of 2008. When discussing the budget, I said that the budget is such that it will hold until the local elections in 2009 that what happens after that, no one can predict it anymore. I was saying that Croatia will not avoid the IMF, today Mr Shucker is afraid with it openly. I was saying by the end of the year, we'd be out of one salary, maybe a pension, MPs for sure, if that 10% cut goes. Credits have dried up, there are no investments, the state de facto from banks if not in debt on the ino market will withdraw all the money, companies are left with no money, Krahir export, tourist season will not be as close as we expect, etc. So that's what I was saying in the budget debate, you can check it out, and then answer me that I'm an eternal pessimist, that you organically hate the government that doesn't stand, well, let's ideologically disagree, but today I'm also getting ready to say, the unions agree to those 6% pay cuts and be happy to stay on it, but because by the end of the year there will be 12%, as we MPs should be happy to stay on these minus 10%, because by the end of the year it will be minus 20%. And that's why I said the devil came for his own. And God forbid the IMF comes as soon as possible, so that it will cut not only public spending, but also those who brought us to it. Is the world crisis the only reason, come on for this situation? It's not. I claim that we are mainly guilty of ourselves, the government, the service of the Parliament, and even of citizens who lived in the illusion that nothing should be given up, that they will come by themselves. That's why the former state fell apart. We haven't wanted anything in the last eight years, no factories, no golf, no roads, absolutely nothing hotels. We sent out 4.5 billion euros of foreign investment, lost 50,000 jobs, and in February 2009 alone, 512 employees were out of work. Whether it's 11,000 or it takes 22 times 511 thousand or 512 times 30, now it's less important. Today we see that no one will invest in Croatia anymore. Only Istra has driven one to two billion euros away, and politics is led to all belong to the tycoons and not allow yourself any competition. And that's Croatia for real. And today, what can we say? We can say that the budget will run out of about 10 billion kuna. What do you want me to do? should encourage consumption, should encourage clear trade, construction, production. I'm going to say it one more time, it should stimulate consumption, it should also be made aware that we can no longer be against everything, because we need to ask ourselves where our kids are going to work tomorrow. Who is the only one who can take on the burden of such consumption? So I say, only Croatian banks, no one else. True, they're all foreign property, but aren't those the same banks everyone's talking about today? They earned 20 billion kuna out of interest, and were sold for the 7th net profit after tax last year to banks at about 9 billion kuna. So in 2009, if they don't want to cause social unrest, they're going after government and maybe banking institutions, start thinking about doing business with a positive zero. That's the point. The interest in Croatia must be halved. That's how I'm experiencing this law that's here today in front of us. If the interest in the UK is 0.5%, if in Italy it is 2%, whatever the logic is that the Italian banks then here they tear the skin with citizens with interest of 9.10 and even 12%. That's the point. Are the apartments important? Of course they're important, even though I'd say there's something more important right now, and they're jobs. And a different banking policy needs to preserve these jobs. We have to increase consumption, people have to start spending again, they have to start shopping, they have to start building, they have to trade, one word of people to do this, first they have to have or have a job. Without that, it's all going to hell. In January, it means last month, in this country, trade fell 13.7%, and the government is not allowed to work on Sundays. And I think he'll be smart by the tourist season and he won't get into an ambis from which there's no more turning back. What I also want to say, Croatia could have been so correct, just, fair, so beautifully decorated that we could have been almost uncircumcised from this global crisis. But no, we're, I'm afraid, going to say that out of this "with our pants on the stick." Am I up for this law? Of course I am. Which, as I asked the prime minister as early as the 11th month, I will literally quote this question: "Employers are asking for the formation of an intervention fund for companies that have fallen into a global crisis, are mentioned in the media as many as 15 billion kunas, I don't know where that came from, but whether the government is considering forming some intervention fund for citizens who owe banks at this time 120 billion kuna, today 127 billion kuna, businesses over 80 billion kuna, whose loans in the last 3.4 months have increased by 30 to 40%. So what's going to happen to these intervention funds, that's a question that currently stands for sure for every citizen of this country.". That's the question, I won't tell you what the answer was. What happened? All my fears unfortunately time has somehow confirmed. What's gonna happen? We all know it's gonna get worse. Not as much in this 2009 as it will be in 2010. And that's what I'm afraid of right after the presidential election. I'm afraid it can happen that people are going after institutions. I don't want that to happen, but I'm gonna say once again that I'm just afraid of it. Is there room for that to happen? I personally think that just as the public is constantly discussing Parliament, Parliament, we should also talk about our tycoons. It doesn't matter that these same tycoons, for example, control the media, but let them return what neither human nor God's laws should belong to them. The unions don't talk about it. But the point is, we're gonna help ourselves. We are, almost dared to say we have deprived our sovereignty. What we will join NATO does not mean much when our external debt is greater than gross social product, when this year it will need to pay back $12.3 billion and that is twice as much as Croatian exports in 2009. That's the essence of this whole story, gentlemen. This law, here's a third time I'm going to say that I'm experiencing it correctly, but it's also a priority how to save the job. I mean, the one who's going to be busy, through that job, is being paid by the bank. I also claim that our sovereignty has never been more endangered, which is what remains of our sovereignty when it can be threatened by second-class European or world-class banks. What I dare say at this point, almost disastrously, perhaps even worst, is this statement by the Minister of Finance that there may be no money for the wages I first found on page 3. 14. 3rd of this year at Morning, but it was repeated yesterday 17th. 3. for almost all relevant television stations. I just don't want to believe it. If the public sector runs out of pay, it won't be that they'll be left without government salaries, so will those who work on TV, clearly, MPs, ministers and everyone else, and then it's a small bankruptcy. We're all in credit, banks are good, clearly we need to service them. Mr. Maric in front of the HDZ Club said contracts should be respected,... Well, yeah, but what if the state doesn't give you the salary, and the interest goes up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The interest in this country in 8 years on housing loans, which should have been the most favourable at 7.8% on average. What does a Berlusconi in Italy do to run production and rescue the economy? Of course, they're tearing down interest and it's clear that banks are prolonging loans for the last year so that this crisis can get over what could have been better. Mr. Maric said that in Croatia housing loans are smaller than in European countries. The truth is, I used to throw out the bench why, because Tito had to build 400 thousand apartments in Croatia alone. Tudjman then sold them, unfortunately my Kaids didn't get either, nor could they buy an apartment under privileged conditions. On the other hand. What if we really lost our salary, some ministers, maybe some MPs wouldn't have a problem paying off loans. What does that mean? I'm not going to speculate about it, but the rest of us in this house would also be on a drum. Therefore, I am advocating clearly for this law but also to encourage production and not to have a day-to-day defect remain 512 people as long as every day has no job left in February, that's what's behind us. All in all, I claim that Croatia could have gone through without all of it. Our economy is unfortunately not export-oriented. We only had to carry out the distribution fairly, not allow individuals to carry out an initial accumulation of capital on social property, but the day will come when it will be discussed again in Croatia. So far, perhaps it shouldn't have been because Croatia spent unsuspected, but now we won't be able to borrow in either country or outside the country, in one word we're all on our knees. There's something else to be done, the question is whether for some radical cuts at this point they'll be citizens, but tomorrow they'll definitely be forced to do it. All in all, once again I will mention this thesis that most fears that there may be no money for wages and pensions, it is in some way an invitation to the lynch, not those who decide on public finances, but above all employees in the public sector. This simply must not happen because after that, production and consumption would fall, and indeed the state would then find itself in a situation that could no longer be controlled on the street because dissatisfaction would be transmitted to the street. There's room on the other side for the interest drop at our banks. And it's clear to me that the state doesn't have the money to intervene at the moment. But I will repeat once again that the banks must understand that the time has come for them to start returning the profits they have achieved so far on the Croatian market. One word to prepare for the day and one to do business with the zero profit rate. It is clear that there should be changes in power along the way. It should be understood that Croatia is the only alternative to Europe. To question how anyone was coming to the property. Professionalize the media, too. Let people work, encourage consumption, reduce interest, make people available loans, let them work, let them have it. Without it, I think we're all black and the devil will come for his own.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29105	Thank you. State Secretary Zdravko Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29106	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's the debate on this agenda point went a little bit and wide, not to say too wide, so let me just have a few observations. So I'm not going to go into certain numbers, the fact that certain representatives have interpreted them and presented them, but I want to point out a few things here. So, the anti-recession programme and the exit plan can be said for both mitigation and subsequent exit from this crisis to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in no way is any virtual proposal. Very well, you all know very well that the first point is actually essential and basic and perhaps something seems virtual but let me also say on behalf of my own and the house that I represent here at the Ministry of Finance and the Government and all the people who work there in no way is virtual work but literally twenty-four hours' work on it and finding all possible savings in the budget. Because one is a very clear and basic thing in these terms, so the financial resources are very scarce. If you want to use the color dictionary money, there is no money, and you need to find all possible savings, the measures of rationalization. Just a few cartoons. You know and you follow well through the media. So, at the ministry level, we have already found certain savings that are not negligible but very clearly we have already said and told that they are not even enough, so in terms of totality as we consider necessary. The 2.1 billion were already done at ministry level in the days. More savings are required at a level of between 1.5 billion and 1.8 billion. And then we have one topic here and yesterday was current, and now it's mentioned again, so talking to the social partners first of all with the unions because we think that in these conditions, here's the esteemed representative also said very well, so we're asking ourselves a question, so not only that six percent salary growth really pays. However, there is one thing that needs to be said very clearly. So, we heard Minister Shuker is scaring someone here. I think that should be really harshly denied, i.e. actually give a clear message that Minister Shuker said to both the trade unions and the Croatian public. So, what's this about? It is about saying that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is aware of the current situation and is aware of all the activities and measures that need to be taken and it makes them. Some of these measures can be done unilaterally. That's what I just said. So, these measures we found. Some need to be done in cooperation with others, so social partners. On this agenda point, we're talking about banks. There is a business sector, or private sector. So the whole synergy of individual measures. The IMF as an IMF institution whose member we are and we generally have long-standing cooperation in no way has been mentioned in terms of some fear and intimidation, but simply in the context that the IMF has nothing else to say to us except what we are already doing, or we are trying to implement fully. So there's no talk of any fear, and I mean there's enough here for one, I can say such hard words. There was a word and a bankruptcy and something like that. Let me say, or in some way, if I have the permission to even invite this esteemed House to try to avoid all such terms in some way. Because watch out, the situation as it is, the Croatian Government intends to go with the foreign issue of bonds. I think that, from the next points, what the SDP has also suggested, we try to make our own borrowing needs, i.e. debt service and the need to do on the foreign market. I don't think these hard words, these messages in any way go in favour of it, but on the contrary, in the opposite direction. So here's just for a brief review. And one more thing about the downsizing. Yes, the “Standard&Pur” credit agency has reduced the rating of the Republic of Croatia to borrowing in Kunska currency, however, it should also be said, so for the past week we have, we can say at least a slight optimism because certain events occur on the European, financial market that have been in our favor. And among other things, we can interpret it, of course, that everyone interprets it in their own way, but I have to interpret it the same way because I've also held talks with credit agencies, and with potential investors in Croatia, that they have recognized this plan of measures of anti-recession, and also these intentions regarding budget rebalancing, so that in the last week it is practically this price of the country's borrowing risk, so on. credits... reduced, i.e. dropped for the Republic of Croatia by 90 basis points. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean, that's not something we can say with certainty now that such a trend will continue. But I'm just saying, so this credit rating drop that's mentioned here has one other thing. So these credit ratings houses and generally investors see Croatia as a healthy economy, a healthy economy and potential. And in any case, there is a particular interest in these terms. However, I say this is not a process that cannot be, unfortunately, overnight, in short time and changed in a negative sense. But I think we're all responsible here if I can say so that we contribute positively and in no way negatively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29107	Thank you. 10.56 timed out to report a ten-minute hearing. Correction by Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29108	Well, I'd like Mr. Secretary of State to be mistaken and God forbid I'm mistaken. A program like you said may not be virtual, but it doesn't hold water if it comes down to saving and saving. But it is true that the programme that the government is proposing is the main part of this budget rebalance. I'll do it again. Find the money, don't play with the salaries, because it is not for Croatia to go bankrupt, but for citizens to go to the street and it will go directly towards both the banking and the institutions of this country. And as for the IMF, we know who he's protecting. It primarily protects the orderly service of government, company, bank to their lenders, or better said to the financiers. All in all, I'd be luckiest if I were mistaken, but I'm afraid time will do me one more time, that you won't deny it, but that those words will confirm it, which I wouldn't like.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29109	Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29110	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of my presentation, I must say that this is an anti-recession SDP measure aimed at the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which in any case will help those who are most difficult this year to cope with this crisis year, to a new job, and to a new income with which they will then be able to pay off their housing loans. A measure aimed at citizens, because we also noticed when we proposed these all measures that the Government among its own, I will still say, with intent, because no law except that which is related to the reduction of the salaries of government officials has been seen. So the government did not mention, among its intentions, any concrete intention that would benefit the current help of Croatian citizens so that they could pass this crisis year as easily as possible. So there is neither through wages nor through the prolongation of certain obligations if they have difficulties with their incomes, no concrete activities here in their intentions the government has not mentioned or intended or intended to refer them to parliamentary procedures, at least according to what we currently know. Why is this measure necessary? First of all, because of what we see here, we are witnessing that in the first two months of this year, about 30,000 people have lost their jobs. Many of these 30,000 of our citizens have housing loans and simply come into trouble how these loans pay off, but not only are they in trouble. Many Croatian citizens are in trouble who are then guaranteed by them, the judiciary and the circle is spreading. The fact that banks have anticipated this difficulty, i.e. such a problem and some of them in their business activities and allowed their debtors to extend payments, does not mean that the state should not, with the adoption of such a law, stand behind these citizens in order to know and so that all those banks that may not have been anticipated were ultimately obliged to extend credit payments this year. I'm a little surprised, I'm looking at the past days of Minister Shucker negotiating with the trade unions to eventually cut salaries to state officials by 6%, or return to last year's level, and talking about saving something over a billion kuna, a billion kuna and 800 would be at the level of over a billion kuna, and when we talk about the help that Croatian citizens would get from this law, we're talking about all those who got credits and we're saying that only the growth of interest credit can mean savings, which has been announced now by some banks, they'll probably follow them from up to 1% on housing loans, meaning savings of 300, 400 kuna on domestic budgets. So one such measure and talks with Croatian banks if interest on housing loans were not raised, would be much more effective for home budgets than what Finance Minister Shuker has been trying to negotiate with the unions for several days now. Perhaps unions would also agree to discuss this way if they were sure that their members, that Croatian workers would be protected by government measures towards the population. And through talks with Croatian banks, but also through these laws such as the SDP is proposing today. And when we talk about national interest, we are not only talking about ladies and gentlemen's interest when the problem of border dispute with Slovenia arises, it is absolutely national interest to protect the standard of Croatian citizens. There is no indication by the Croatian government that it does anything in this regard. And why am I saying that I am sorry that the Croatian government did not open communication a little more seriously than that Prime Minister Sanader expressed his concern through the papers? I think that every government responsible and thus Croatian should have opened communication with Croatian banks so as not to increase housing loans and other loans to the public. And on the other hand, that it was meant to establish communication with Croatian banks, not only in the event that it had to patch holes in the state budget. It is difficult then to discuss the standard of Croatian citizens and to open that communication with banks when you have to come to them tomorrow to ask for a billion, two kunas to repair the Croatian budget. Then of course no bank will listen to you in your efforts, which should be directed towards Croatian citizens. And what makes me think I'm even compatriots here with examples from Europe? Because when we look at few owners of Croatian banks, all their home houses, i.e. their home banks in Austria and Italy, do not have the results of Croatian banks in Croatia. For what? Because governments there protect the interest of the economy, the interest of their citizens' standards. They opened a story with banks and eventually reached some agreements that led to it not going in, I would say depleting citizens and destroying their standards. Unfortunately, that's not what our government does. And it is illusory to expect, someone here said that banks should give up their profits, it is illusory to expect that banks will do so on their own because it is, if they are allowed a market category of interest, on the other hand, bank holders are not, do not live in Croatia, they are all foreign banks. Stacke bank holders are looking for profit and it is normal that banks will not go by themselves to lower interest, but on the contrary, to increase. Stake holders living in Croatia are staff holders of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and they expect the Government of the Republic of Croatia to do something about it. Unfortunately, the government is doing nothing. After all, we and the Croatian banks have, and there are Croatian citizens stake holders and I sometimes wonders why the Croatian government does not stand stronger behind Croatian banks because it is amazing to me that, namely, the question is whether the Croatian government has at all the possibility to shake this banking market a little more seriously and it is amazing for me that someone who affects 2/3 of the GDP in Croatia through the budget of the state-owned company, the local community that it cannot affect Croatian banks by any communication that it does not go into interest growth this year. Or in the end, if it stood stronger behind Croatian banks, I believe that the banks that are foreign, or owned by foreign banks, would behave differently. Of course, I know the reason why the government doesn't do it. I already said in my, uh, beginning of my presentation. Unfortunately, the Croatian government is at this point in terms of money on its knees, the minister announces a problem with payouts, pensions by the end of the year. And normally, when you're in position, when you're on your knees that you can't make any demands. It will be difficult to borrow on the international market. Our credit rating agencies are dropping for the first time in years. And in the end, they bring it down because of what the SDP is saying, that the government is reacting late and poorly to a slowdown in the economy. So that's where we get confirmation that what gentlemen of the opposition are telling you is not only us but international financial analysts are saying that, and that's why our credit rating is down these days. And, of course, in that situation where you depend on domestic banks if you're going to be in charge. You must quietly allow that market to do what I do not think should be done, which is to raise interest rates and that Croatian citizens in this year will probably have to subsidise in budget rebalancing the expensive state, an inefficient state through wage cuts and, in part, will subsidise through interest growth because of the fact that the Croatian banks will eventually lend to the state in order to bear and pay their costs. So, specifically that formula in Croatia is worth everything to you to the burden of Croatian citizens, everything. And the measure of any, intent little, measure in the Parliament is slowing down and we are already in deep recession and I hope that from the Croatian government, here is the final sentence of Mr. Vice President, in the next time we get some laws that we have not received in the Parliament so far to start things in Croatia and to help the Croatian economy and citizens eventually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29111	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29112	Honorable Vice President, Secretary of State, fellow MPs. Well, I find this initiative of the Social Democratic Party noble. The problem, however, is that it is being delayed for nine years from the time when the Social Democratic Party played one of the leading roles in the coalition government. I launched this initiative on behalf of the Association of Workers' Unions of Croatia in 2000 and for those workers better say the unemployed who were then jobless not by their own fault. Then in September 2000, I sent a letter to the then Prime Minister and described the reasons for this initiative, and for the representative Bernardic who counted why here I will count the same reason why I launched the same initiative in 2000. The reason was a severe economic crisis and the result was a wave of bankruptcy with a large number of workers who were then out of work i.e. There was a dramatic loss of jobs, there were 400 thousand people registered at the Employment Service, 120 thousand were those who regularly did not receive salaries at the time, 2/3 were those who barely finished to survive, and on average 2,000 were each month newly registered at the Employment Office and then the unemployed received compensation from 700 to 900 kuna at the maximum. So it wasn't a fee that's much bigger today, you'll agree, it's not hard to calculate. And logically, at that time, many people who had lost their jobs were unable to repay loans because they were simply fighting for a naked survival. The difference between your proposal and my proposal nine years ago was that I had no intention at all or tried to discriminate against any group of unemployed. For me, anyone who was unemployed was exactly the same. Moreover, those who have been out of work for a long time at the Employment Service will agree, so they would need more help than those who are shorter even though each other were at that time in an extremely difficult situation and payless. Since then, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not been much help and no hearing about this initiative except, I think I have a memo because we were texting here at the time. In addition to being referred to by the Croatian Banks Association and I have normally addressed the Croatian Banks Association with the same initiative, and then we held a few even publicly recorded conferences and where the Croatian Banks Association accepted this initiative but the Government told me then we can't do anything about it because the banks are private. So we can't intervene in private banks. I don't think the ownership structure has changed anything since 2000 just to this day as far as these banks are concerned. And then some banks went into direct contact with their clients and tried as long as it was possible to extend the payment of the loan. Well, there must be other times today. And the Social Democratic Party is proposing to this government that same proposal that I proposed nine years before them. And logically, today, surely that social sensitivity is clearly far greater than nine years ago, and that's good. I mean, everything changes over time and why not that. I consider what we should be getting out of here and I agree with many who have spoken here. We should send a clear message to banks, banks that have forgotten what conditions were privatised ten years ago, nine to ten years in mass in Croatia, that they were rehabilitated by citizens who were still living in a difficult social situation, and that, in principle, these rehabilitated banks should in some way adapt to the time and place in which they operate today and the situation where people also live extremely hard and not in fact earning huge extra profits on Croatian poverty, and that is completely in agreement. And that's why it's not bad to talk about it, so we're not experiencing this initiative any harm. It is good to talk a little bit about these banks, which I think because they earn extra profits on poor citizens, and most of all on poor citizens, that they are one of the serious Croatian tsunamis, which is highly harmful to human happiness or accident. And in that I would agree with Agent Caine who is no longer here, because when he tells the story, then he leaves, but the only thing he would resent is that when it wasn't time he meant 9 years ago, he was also critical of the then government and he supported this initiative that we have here today, which he did not support as harshly as he supports today as he supports them today. I'm so sorry. This one, by the way, that's what he said about the banks, I totally agree with him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29113	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29114	It is not true that the counterpart that the coalition government in any way led to the crisis in 2000, which he cited as a crisis year, which is linked to collegiate rule. The crisis was inherited then, the coalition government is just coming to power. There's a 10% debt in the budget, so a gross social product at minus 1%. When that government leaves, we have a plus 5.6% gross social product, then the HDZ comes and we're back in an even worse situation now than it was in 1999. Gross social product forecasting minus 2%. The HDZ, of course, is a colleague of Hebrang's.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29115	Replica Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29116	Thank you very much. Mr. Kunst went back nine years in his presentation, I guess, I didn't quite understand from his presentation, but I believe he would support it if the idea was similar. So the law will support it when it's voted. But what I'd say, Mr. Kunst, is not worth your appeals, you won't achieve anything with an appeal. The state has its instruments, the state can open communication like I said with trade unions, but also with employers, specifically here with banks. When someone manages I said with a budget of 120 billion kuna, with companies that still spend and have income of 40 billion kuna, when you put it all on one pile, you can probably open communication with banks and say gentlemen in this year the situation is such and such, you should not go to the standard of Croatian citizens. It is the defense of Croatian sovereignty. You don't appeal through the papers, and you don't speak what I said nine years ago, and now I agree with you that they shouldn't be so long ago. Open communication with banks and tell them, gentlemen, you must have understanding, but also because we as the government that runs the country, stood behind that proposal. You don't do that. You send a message through the media and you hope that someone will eventually respect your appeal, which in principle, given that the market is most likely not going to be. And on the other hand, it's normal for you to have a difficult situation, because you depend on these banks to close the budget this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29117	Replication response, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29118	Thank you very much. I'll try again, so if you can figure me out, I'll be glad to say it. And I wanted to say that nine years ago, the economic social situation in the country was extremely difficult. If you want a whole series of social, economic data that were then, I can copy it to you later so you can see, that you know what the situation in Croatia was then. So what I'm saying is, that's exactly the initiative that made sense back then. Because it was a difficult situation, a difficult situation, especially for 400,000 people without a job, especially for 120,000 who didn't get paid. But then there was no hearing. From who? It's right from the party that's proposing it today. So there was then an opportunity for the Social Democratic Party to do what it proposes today itself. I don't think she'd be resented by the unemployed at the time, or the jobless ones at the time, or the ones who couldn't really pay off the loans and barely made ends meet. I don't know if you get me. If you're not, I can especially... Five minutes apart to try to dissipate you one more time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29119	Mr. Representative Luke Denon, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29120	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Kunst, of course, we realized what it was in 1999 and what it was like in 1999. Just before my colleague Marin Jurjevic found her and what she had to face, and what she had to do to bring this situation into 4 years and the authorities to some relative normal, so that HDZ would now continue to ruin and bring us into a situation that was worse than in 1999. In 2000, if nothing else and difference is 2000. - In 2009, if nothing else, we're all 9 years older. I hope you're smarter for those nine years, so I'd just say that if that government that was back in 2000 didn't have a sense of hearing, I think that government paid for it if it didn't have a hearing, that government is dead. And I'd like to beg you, don't hit a dead man with your foot yet. The government has been gone for a long, long, long time and you're raising it from the dead, but it seems to me that in the meantime there was another HDZ government that has been so somehow undetected, incognito in these past 4.5 years of government. I hope that when that dead government hasn't accepted your suggestions, that's what these good suggestions are that now the opposition is proposing to the government, and you're on the trail of what you agree with, then on Friday or one Friday when this law is voted on, your hand will be in the air for this law proposed by the SDP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29121	Replication response, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29122	Well, my colleague Denon, you obviously didn't get me, because you've been talking since '99. Year, I'm talking about 2000. You're talking about the dead government, and I'm talking, if you're talking about the dead government, I'm talking to living participants here in the Parliament who are. So they're not all dead. And the consequences, the honor of the dead normally, the consequences are felt by many. As for the government in '99. Perhaps if you mentioned once again that the government then had to worry about 800,000 refugees in Croatia, that it had one additional burden. I don't think it would be bad when you talked about it. But to tell you what the dead government says, what the dead government has been saying since 2000 from, quotes from newspapers, says the president of the then government: "I'm not interested in trade unions", so the other "entrepreneur today must cheat on the legal system, tax administration and workers", "The labour law must therefore change to allow entrepreneurs to work legally and easier, legally employ more workers," it's all said in the paper, "The government does not offer social assistance, we offer sea and fish, workers must know how to catch it," so not to say how the rights were then cut in terms of cancelled deadlines, so as regards the reduction of severance, etc. Well, you know, that dead government still has a lot of live participants here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29123	My colleagues, please, no throwing and insulting throws. You can't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't. Proposer, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29124	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Yeah, here's another living participant, 2000. I didn't mention a single number on behalf of the SDP club today. Why? I do not want to correct and joke on matters of protection for the citizens of Croatia at the expense of numbers. And that's why no figures were mentioned. It's sad because it would mean a lot to me. Mr. Kunst is now trying to talk about the past. The problem of Croatian citizens will not be solved with the past. We won't. I'm not here to brag about the coalition government and say she solved the '99 crisis. the years from minus 1, turned economic work and solved the greatest tragedy, indifference, the number of jobless rapidally reduced. But what I do have is that Kunst and I go back nine years and praise who did what. For HDZ, it was a criminal government, so let's keep it that way, we don't have to worry about it. For Kunst, who went from union to politics, he has to prove his crime to the government. And let's not burden ourselves with that, it won't save our citizens from the crisis. So I don't want to compete with Kunsto to explain to him who did what. They also know the citizens, they know the businessmen. Some positive, some negative. We tell citizens how to solve the recession. That's our theme. And all of you who live in the past, have fun in the past know that you will not solve the problem for the citizens. And the SDP club tells us, we don't want to take part in the past and analyze the past because the current moment is brutal, it's brutal and it's looking for our action. He's really looking. We are not talking about initiatives, the SDP and the SDP club have proposed a law on state interventions necessary to protect Croatian citizens. And we think that fiscal policy needs to be adopted, it needs to be done, the moment that we're dealing with citizens, not with elections, we're talking about the past in speakers. At this point, we ask you to try to understand and assess whether Parliament should intervene to protect the citizens from this. Maybe just two figures hoping we don't get into the debate about numbers. In 2000, it was about 7 billion citizens' debts, today it is 127 billion. Are we aware of how huge the responsibility of citizens is and how necessary it is for that figure to warn us that we need to resolve and intervene in the financial market by law. We have to. It protects citizens of inequality because one bank will work like this, another one. The owners of the apartments are not citizens, but through.. banks, banks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A good deal of credit has already been disbursed, but some banks won't be interested. That's why we need to intervene. We can intervene, we've proposed a law on how. But all of you who think you don't need to intervene, that's your right, I'm not arguing, but let's not talk about the past. Let's not. Citizens need today's decision, today's thinking. Our response to the recession, I hope that many of us have it, many of us have it. Therefore, I believe that if you assess the huge debt of citizens, if you assess the inequality of financial institutions and their policies on the market and the possibility of really intervention... No one is defending us, we have the right, and that right gives us the danger of recession. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's use that right.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29125	No one marked and qualified Prime Minister Ivica Racan with the criminal government No! No! [[/Intruder: Yes, it is!]] Correction of an incorrect allegation. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29126	Thank you very much. Incorrectly, MP Linic said that I from... The reason I have to go back, so I have to point out the criminal government, it's completely untrue. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the fact is, all those who are ashamed of the past don't have a future. The fact is that just now Agent Linic is an advocate of the great flexibility of the workforce which is... Law cuts, cut wages to workers 30 to 40% of civil servants at the time, which this government... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] billions of expenses, court costs, and it pays those people back for being cut off by the former government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] About keeping quiet that... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29127	Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The global financial crisis has turned into a global economic global crisis. It is said that liberal capitalism is actually ahead of a breakdown and many countries intervene in the economic and monetary and banking sphere. The question is why wouldn't Croatia do it if big countries do it, if developed countries do it, there's no reason not to do it, and Croatia. The World Bank's latest figures predict that by half this year, industrial, global industrial production will be 15%. We have finally admitted that Croatia is not an island either, and that there has been a crisis in Croatia. We've had a decline in industrial production in Croatia for months. If you don't have production in the real sector then that means recession, then that means losing jobs, then that means an increasing number of people at the Employment Office. Those estimates that were from 10,000, 20,000 newly unemployed, or people who would be out of work now go up to 50,000, and some say that's not the end either. There were said to be no problems when it was seen in January that budget revenues are not being charged as planned. The Minister of Finance has no reason to panic, everything is in line with the plan, an inflow of income cannot be assessed only for a few weeks in one month or in one month, etc. Today, it is good that the Minister of Finance has changed the situation. He is already talking today about the alarming state of the budget and is saying that we are actually missing around 10 billion kuna in the budget so that such planned expenditure as those in the 2009 budget can be covered. That doesn't mean we're in opposition like that. In fact, we're very concerned, and we've been pointing to that for months. For months we have been trying to say that we need to take certain measures and for months we are saying that we need to open the debate in the Croatian Parliament. It seems to me that in time, we also sent legal proposals into the procedure before the state budget was passed. Unfortunately, they waited for months in the agenda. First they waited for the government's opinion, and then there was the situation to discuss it. And the question is, why are we proposing this law on the prolongation of housing loans in 2009? Where the financial institutions' laws also say that banks can establish similar measures under their general conditions of business. And what some banks have already done and done. Probably those who have stronger credit potential and probably those who have more such credits. In fact, out of the total debt of citizens already rising at the end of December to $126.6 billion, housing loans are about a little over one third, which is already a large amount, and the apartment or roof over the head means meeting a basic living need similar to food and similar to the right to work, i.e. to have a job and to achieve income worthy of life. If most of the banks have done so, I don't think there's any reason for us to do so as a legislative body and by law for all credit institutions. In fact, what happens if loans are not paid, i.e. citizens who lose their jobs and without income will not be able to repay the housing loan? The banks no longer have mortgages, but a fiducial right. So they own the apartment. And if you don't pay off the last war, they'll take your apartment. So, you'll be out of an apartment no matter how much you've paid off by now. Today on the market, they say there are about 13,000 apartments in offers that do not have buyers. Which means for banks if they're mass-absorbing apartments to those who have such loans and can't service them. This means only an increase in the market supply, and the bank will sell these apartments exactly in a way that sells them by actually the amount of creditor, i.e. the debtor's debt. In this situation and banks must keep an eye on it, because creditors are also obliged as debtors to realise their claim. With us banks still make high incomes, high profits. They also announce high interest rates, interest rates that cannot be achieved in their home countries. With our tax policy, we don't even dilute interest, because interest is not paid, interest revenues are not charged. We do not dilute either the dividend payment and most of it or most of the dividend and the dividend income is leaving Croatia because we do not charge dividend taxes. So we don't have a capital tax. So, on the one hand, we stimulate high interest because we don't tax it, we stimulate the dividend payment because we don't tax it, and at the same time we don't want to help those citizens who wanted to settle their own housing issue that tomorrow, tomorrow, tomorrow, or yesterday, they're out of work, have no income and can't repay such loans. We say it's state interventionism and it's not good, because banks are private. And I'm going to do it again at the end of my exposure. A large number of countries in the world are currently seeking state interventions to overcome certain problems both in the economy and towards their citizens. That's what responsible countries do. Croatia should be, having its place among them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29129	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. She's gone, she's losing her word. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Under what circumstances does this bill occur, and who needs this law? Why does the SDP club propose this law? Citizens had one promise of increasing standards, reducing unemployment, well-being. They believed that promise. Now whether they were naive, whether they were gullible or not, it doesn't matter. They generally believed it and took part in the purchase of apartments, building houses through residential loans. If they had thought a little bit better about who was making them a promise, they might not have gotten into it. But, well, they wanted to help themselves, they wanted to solve their housing problem. They couldn't solve it any other way than through a loan. They did not count on their life to be reduced to that extent that these loans would no longer be able to recover. They weren't afraid that they might lose their property. It's a series of fiduciary loans. If you don't pay the war, the bank just logs in on your property. There's no special case of evidence about it, no new hearings, no court proceedings. Nothing. The bank is taking over your property. Citizens lose their jobs every day. Last month, 150 of them were out of work a day, over 500 this month. They're out of work without their guilt. There's nothing they can do about it. When it comes to smuggling, all the members of a family are working in the mall. Both husband and wife and adult children if they work, when they lose their jobs, the whole family will run out of income, no swear of income. And there is no such thing to say in the Croatian family that does not have this mortgage or fiducial loans. How are they gonna get that back? Not at all. No, they can't return it. They'll just stop paying the wars. What are the banks gonna do? He will take away their property. Well, the bank has to protect itself and its own interests. So the bank gives loans to citizens not because it's human and good, which takes care of citizens' interests, but to make money on these loans, on interest on those loans. So, what's the bank gonna do? They'll take that property. Why does the SDP propose this legal proposal? So to protect these citizens, to help them, they are our fellow citizens. Why HDZ refuses, I don't know, so are your fellow citizens. Well, it's not the Martians. So we're talking about families in this country. You should be particularly interested in accepting this legislative proposal, because you too have some responsibility, the burden of responsibility that citizens have fallen into such difficulties that they cannot repay credits. Because it's not just a world recession. It's not just that. So the decline in GDP growth began with HDZ coming to power. Economic growth rates were high by then. Then they started to collapse when HDZ came to power. When's the global crisis, a few months ago? But citizens are in such a difficult position among other things because they have such a government. Oh, my God, they chose her. Nobody slows it down, but you'd have to be interested that once the opposition offers a solution to help these fellow citizens, you'd accept it. You say that on behalf of the HDZ Club, and that's the contractual relationship between the party and the banks. What's it to us? You don't need to get involved in this. The party agreed with the bank on the loan, can't repay, will remain property, and my God, what can we do about it? Well, that's not why we're getting involved. That's what you said now on behalf of the HDZ Club. So listen, there are different contractual relations. The election cycle is one contractual relationship. HDZ says we will offer you prosperity, economic growth, better standards, you give us votes. The citizens have fulfilled their share of this contractual relationship, they have given you votes, and you are not your own. So there are contracts that are not respected. You didn't honor your share of the deal with the citizens. And now we want to help you. We're offering a bill that would save these citizens from being left without a roof over their heads, from being left with nothing, and you're refusing to do so and saying, for God's sakes, what did they do with the banks and what did they do with the loans? So what does this have to do with us and this government and HDZ? Listen, whenever there's a question in this House about the position of citizens, about how they live, about their social status, then there's always a Kunst who starts talking about how it was for Racan's governments. And then the trees and the stones on that government and that government is to blame for everything. It's her fault. If Kunstu is guilty, let her be guilty. Let her be guilty. But right now, here and this bill of law, we are not dealing with the issue of the success or failure of Racan's government and going back to it means making fun of these citizens, making fun of those who got fired yesterday, and the next first one has to pay for the loan war. So you laugh at them in the face. Because it's nothing else Kunst does but laughs at their faces. Instead of discussing with us how to help these people, he's talking about Racan's government as if he's on a plane from Mars now, so he hasn't managed to acclimatize himself yet. Because listen, we can shut up, and we can respond to such Kunsto interventions. I don't think we're gonna answer because those interventions just don't deserve it. We will continue to talk about the citizens of this country, we will continue to work in their interest, we will continue to propose legal solutions that can help them. The citizens may have been mistaken when they were gullible and chose you by believing that you would help them act in their interest. And we may be mistaken that we hope that you might accept one of these solutions in the interests of the citizens, but we are tired of proposing these solutions never, which we will not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29131	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, there's only one inaccuracy I'm going to correct that coming to HDZ power began to reduce gross domestic product and that it was then felt a fall, so the tables clearly say that in 2003 it was 5.3 and 2007. 5.6%. This fact probably tells you enough about misrepresenting that the arrival of HDZ authorities has significantly reduced gross domestic product.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29133	Replica Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29134	Thank you very much. Mr. Stazic, it is no concern that Kunst is returning in 2000, nor is it alarming that maybe the HDZ club and this government will not accept this proposal. It is alarming that our government, the Croatian government, has not sent a single proposal to help Croatian citizens at this time. That's what worries me the most. Gentlemen, if you want to help Croatian citizens not to raise credit interest rates, open communication with business banks in Croatia. So I'm telling you, it must be in their best interest to have communication with the government that's spending I said over 160 billion kunas over these business banks. I can't believe they wouldn't take seriously what the Croatian government is telling them, only maybe if you weren't in a position that you needed more banks to patch up your budget than banks would listen to what you say. It's the only thing that can be a problem. But anyway, I think we should open communication with banks not only about when you need money for the budget but about protecting the standards of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29135	Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29136	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. For me, it is the uncontestable positive intention of the promoter to try to contribute to certain legal solutions a more favourable position to the inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia, who have certain difficulties in paying off the annuity of residential loans, and this is indeed undeniable. How important the apartment is, how important it is for every man. I would most like to quote the most quoted scientist, Maslow, who, by his famous theory, is the need to say that food, drink, warmth and apartment are the basic physiological needs of every man. And I really feel sorry for every man who's lost his job. I am truly sorry for every resident who pays off housing loans under these unfavourable conditions, and I can personally say that I feel for them because I've lived through both, and I've been out of work, and I've been paying for housing loans, and at 9% of the interest that has been variable but never gone to lower than just more. And I don't know if any of us here want a more favourable position for any resident who has difficulty paying off their annuities. I believe that's what every one of us wants. And we also use every situation to direct our intention, to criticise phenomena that prevent and lead to such worse situations. And in that context, I'm also looking at this proposal for a bill on the prolongation of housing loans. But still, I can't help thinking that he, as I said, violates the principle of non-discrimination because he brings certain groups into a more unfavourable position than others. The truth is that any man who loses his job is truly in an uninvited situation. But I couldn't say for sure that he's in a more unfavourable property condition than he who works and gets 3,000 kuna pay, I'm not sure, and I think any one of us can be as sure in every single case as anyone in the property is. There are those who have not worked for years and are extremely rich in property, but I do not point to those who have lost their jobs and who are truly in an invisible position. But what I would point out again, and I don't think that I, either, avoids HDZ and some in HDZ talk about negative phenomena, was the first to point out the enormous profit of business banks in Croatia. The results of business banks in Croatia suggest they have space and need and must reduce interest rates. 23.6 billion kuna profit in 9 years is something that violates harmony with the production of the Croatian economy, with the consumption of the Croatian economy, the harmony of the financial sector of the population and the economy of Croatia as a whole. It should be added to this that it is only the profit of business banks from so-called banks. Their weed business. This should be added to at least 20% increase in profits based on company leases which, by analysing their placements, determines that 90% of all placements through company leases have credit ratings properties. There should also be added housing savings and pension funds, so their profits then increase to more than 30 billion kuna in 9 years. Also, this crisis that has affected the world and Croatia has indeed felt both the economy and the population of the Republic of Croatia but the business banks have not felt at all, they are doing even better, they make 40% more profit in January this year than in January 2008. Therefore, their performance is not in line with the environment in which they operate. What would happen if business banks in Croatia made 2 to 2.5 billion kuna a year? Nothing. It would just happen to be adapted to all conditions in the European environment and globally, to achieve business results in line with the financial sector in the euro area. They wouldn't even have to give up their biggest income at the level of the management, they wouldn't even have to give up their bonus, or skiing on Aspen, or various donations, or various sponsorships, they wouldn't have to give up even 32m euros in advertising and advertising investment. And they would also help the economy of the Republic of Croatia and the population, which is their goal as well, because this is exactly where the profits were achieved exclusively on the economy and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I would therefore point out that this law, no matter how positive it is in its intensities, will not lead to the key, the reduction of interest rates and the reduction of profits of business banks in Croatia. On the contrary, they will even increase the profits of business banks in Croatia. And for all that period that is not paid, they shall pay the interest in order. That Croatia has the potential, that business banks in Croatia have the potential to borrow both the economy and the citizens, best shows that credit ratings were 3 months ago, 265 billion kuna, and now 257 billion kuna. Old loans come back, not new loans. Even the six largest banks in Croatia meet, create a cartel, create a seemingly increased demand for money to have an alibi for increasing interest rates, because these results and such enormous profits are not enough for them. Well, regardless of what my colleague Stazic said, he won't get tired of proposing new solutions, and I point out from this pay phone that we shouldn't get tired, and I will personally never get tired of referring to negative phenomena in the economic environment, to economic defects, to market failures, but I won't be able to regulate the conditions of business between business banks and committees. Croatian banks have ways and have opportunities, have potential and have to reduce interest rates especially on housing loans and make it all business banks in the European environment and therefore did not require State intervention, but did so because of their long-term interest. Apparently, Croatian banks view these situations in the short term, not in the interest of the long-term economy and the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29137	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29138	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would correct the assumption that, in my opinion, is incorrect, which is that this bill puts a certain group of citizens in a more unfavourable position. That quote is incorrect. So this bill gives a group of people who are in an unembarkable situation a slightly more favourable position than this unembarkable situation in a way that gives them a year to cope, that this crisis goes on and on and on live their lives without losing their apartment. And it's not about any more unfavourable position, it shouldn't be seen in such a negative way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29139	Replica, Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29140	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. We're talking about banks, and we really need to talk about banks. Last year alone, Croatian bank interest made 20 billion kuna revenue. net profit somewhere after the taxation of nine billion kunas. What time did we get there in the late '90s and early 2000s to sell banks? We sold them for 7 billion kuna, previously rescheduling them for 13 billion kuna. So, for a one-year profit not from 2008, but from 2007, and in 2009, I agree with Mr. Maric, it will certainly be bigger than it was last year. Who's in charge of these banks? These are either socialist directors from before the 1990s, who over time became major nationalists, or the finance minister who privatised them on behalf of the Croatian state so that they could sit in the leading places of these same banks. Who is the head of the supervisory board of the largest Croatian banks? Well, these are our domestic tycoons, from the Istrians to the further. What's the bonus for the chairman of the Economic Bank's Supervisory Board last year? 1.2 million kuna. What are we doing next? We have this second pillar. I am for that second pillar, but to simply change logic, not to have that second pillar owned by the business banks of the Republic of Croatia, funded by a foreign company or supported by the liquidity of domestic tycoons. I also agree with all those that trust should be placed in the banking system of the Republic of Croatia, and that trust should be given to speeches that we went through in the 1990s or I don't know in the mid-90s or later 1990s, and that citizens have confidence and have to, confirms that savings in business banks last year has increased by about 18 billion kuna. The banks, as everyone agreed more or less, will certainly continue to profit in Croatia, but if we want to run this country, they must give up their share of their profits, because the only ones at this time have the money to help both the state and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And I think this message must be sent to the business banks by this Parliament. The state of money is gone, the citizens of money is gone, the money is there normally in banks that are all in line owned by foreign banks, some of them are second-rate European banks and they need to take part of the responsibility for a moment on their own.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29141	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29142	I am truly convinced that our discussions and appeals from this Parliament will come to the ears of bankers or bankers and see how much long-term damage both to themselves and the economy of the Republic of Croatia and to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I would only take the opportunity to say Mr. Cain, not 7 billion, but 5.4 billion euros received the Croatian budget from the sale of banks from the Croatian financial sector and... 5.4 billion, with only ten.5 billion kuna for housing loans. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Only the Bank of Business in 2008 increased the profit 18.8% compared to 2007, and the Bank of Zagreb increased as much as 25.7% of profits compared to 2007. And thank you to all those who participate in the way that the appeal is made to change the business bank policy in Croatia in the interest of the Croatian economy, in the interests of citizens but also in the long term in their own interest, because they can only survive at the expense of both citizens and the economy of the Republic of Croatia. And how important trust in the banking system is that we confirmed in '99. and we will not even have a second chance because we must not lose confidence in the financial sector in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29143	Next replica, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29144	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I think it should be pointed out that fellow Maric has actually touched one of the key causes of this crisis. It's a banking system. And from the banking system, mortgage loans from America, this crisis has started, the world has flooded, now it's overrun by the real sector. But what counterpart Maric said, should be stressed, if we refuse to pay back part of the loan to banks, we will achieve the opposite effect, they will not start to reduce interest rates, but to compensate for their profits and their business, they will start to increase them. Well, I think that's the core of the problem and that's one of the reasons why we explain that we can't accept this proposal. The second reason is that the proposal refers to 2009. Many pessimists, and here is counterpart Cain, and many economists say that in 2010, it will be even worse, in 2011, which we will then suspend the return of credit to banks for 2010, '11, '12. Until there's a crisis? I don't think that would be good, 'cause suffocating banks means cutting off the branch we're sitting on. They are an expression of resources for both the economy and, of course, for the consumption of citizens. And finally. If the U.S. authorities had reacted like this to the mortgage system crisis of banks in America and had suspended the loan to banks whether the recovery would have been monitored, surely not, I think we should appeal to banks, because they are the first link in that chain. They can't suck a cow till it's dead. This means at this stage of the crisis, not to exhaust citizens and the real sector but to give them more favourable loans because the result will arrive very soon for all and for the banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29145	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Hebrang is well aware of what I wanted during my entire presentation to actually potential where the key and the problem is, but where is the key and the solution. For the progress of any country, the progress of any national economy is about harmony between production and consumption, the financial sector, trade. Here's where the harmony's gone. I said just before on behalf of the HDZ Club that business banks in Croatia employ less than 1% of total employees and acquire 15% of total profits achieved in the Republic of Croatia. I'm going to adjust that information a little bit. It's all in total employees, but we know that out of the total employees, not all of them are employed in profit-making organisations. When they are excluded, when only those employed in profit-making organisations are analysed, then the share of those less than 1% of employees acquire more than 30% of the profits achieved, the total profits in the Republic of Croatia... economics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All this points to... All this suggests that banks really have space and that we have reason to invite them to a different business and credit policy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29147	Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29148	Thank you very much, colleague Maric, will this debate of yours and many of the appeals addressed to the banks bear fruit? Here's Prime Minister Sanader made an appeal at the end of the year, and did he bear fruit? It's not. And neither will these appeals addressed to banks bear fruit in the future. You can see that from a simple example. Interests on newly approved loans in Croatian banks are lower than will now be on those already approved in the past. So, in other words, if you take the apartment that a certain bank financed you'll get a more favourable interest rate than if you bought that apartment a year ago when this situation wasn't on the market. If that's correct, I don't think so. But the market is like that, you can't influence if you've defined some things that can be flexible. That banks can raise interest on loans as long as they think it is enough and as long as, after all, those who pay it, Croatian citizens can pay. But what we can do, here's a fellow secretary of state. There are payments to the state budget, at the expense of the state budget every month. We can say, gentlemen who raises housing loans cannot be a bank that will serve the state budget or public company in Croatia owned by the Croatian state. It can't be. And if we open that kind of communication, maybe the banks will think differently. These appeals, I'm sure, although they're good and we're all thinking that way, won't bear fruit. The only communication that would result in Croatian citizens' taxes being paid through banks that today raise interest rates on housing loans. He's got a state of his own state bank, and he's got to pay them through them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29149	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29150	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, colleague Maras, you asked me if it would bear this kind of appeal? And you answered and I appreciate your thoughts and I gladly share with you always thinking and in the economy, where you replied to me that it would not be innate and then you said that there was a reduction in interest rates. Well, they're already bearing fruit if new housing loans, and here we're reading the last days that business banks, some business banks, have decided to cut interest rates on housing loans. I believe that with an even greater appeal, even more attention in this problem will be achieved and an even greater effect will surely result. But I'm worried about the fact that on one side they're reducing interest rates and on the other side they're entering the so-called. a one-way currency clause which is completely contrary to the Law on Mandatory Relations and International Law and that these same commercial banks introduce variable interest rates. I'm worried about that, but I'm sure with the follow-up of the debate in this direction, we're going to have an effect and the banks are going to decide on a different business because it's a long-term unsustainable relationship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29151	And the last replica, Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29152	Comrade Maric, you've mistaken the appearance of the party. Namely, you are part of the ruling majority. The ruling majority and government and government are not acting by appeal. She doesn't need to get tired or tired of warning of irregularities. You have to stop it. You have to act like there's no irregularities. You're not appealing, you're acting, which is our problem. Our government isn't working, so everything happens in entropy. Well, then you have an entropy of appeals, so now you're saying, in the debate you said the appeal, here I'm going to appeal because there are a lot of irregularities, and then after that you say everything has already happened, everything seems only citizens still don't know that they're doing very well. The prime minister should appeal to the citizens to become aware that they are well. Therefore, appeal to your club and warn your club about the irregularities that your government makes, that it finally starts to do something, not just talk about how well we are, and then in three months, it's surprised that we're actually not as good as we were three months ago. Therefore, it is necessary to act. This is one of the laws that goes after it to work, to tell the banks something that they have to do, not to ask them to do it. While you say you're appealing that they need something to do, they're growing profits. While we say this law should be passed, we may be going after a man to save him from being left without an apartment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29153	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29154	Well, your esteemed colleague, first of all, says that I've confused pots, I can only comment on it in a way that in such a dictionary and subjectivity you won't strengthen the arguments you've already made. You're saying this is an irregularity. No one was talking about irregularities. If it's an irregularity, then it's treated differently. There is no irregularity for business banks to decide independently what kind of business, credit policy they will have. This is about a situation that business banks use to their advantage at the expense of those they deal with. Indeed, there is no need, and that is why both the evidence and the countries of Europe where no one intervened with state interventionism and legal regulations laid down the conditions under which committees, credit operations with banks, will be negotiated, but will be left exclusively to the contractual relationship. But it's an unnatural phenomenon that such a relationship results in enormous gains, and that's why I use this situation to warn myself that they have space, that we expect them to reduce interest rates, and I'm sure they will. And I'd like to ask my colleague not to throw the bench, and by doing so, you won't step up your bad arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29155	Proposer, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29156	Here we are trying to discuss this bill also in a way that shows how dissatisfied we are with the business policies of banks, which, under the conditions of recession where many will feel the negative consequences of the bank's recession, generate huge revenues, and other than income, achieve extraordinary business results. Therefore, it is indeed evident that in Croatia we are not all equal, that there are businessmen and citizens in Croatia who suffer the negative effects of recession, and on the other hand, the banking system that delivers better positive results in recession conditions. And I see that, more or less in the debates, almost all MPs are thinking the same way. What makes us different? We estimate that there is a dysharmony where something should be even and now the question remains whether or not we have a skirt and scissors to act on and interventions, legal interventions. And what we say in the SDP, let's not waste time on appeals, because appeals don't affect. The differences are increasing. The SDP proposes interventions, law interventions to slow down the disharmony between the banking system, the economy and citizens. So we're proposing laws. This is one law that we specifically singled out, which concerns housing loans. Because it's not just a matter of citizens and the difficulty of paying the citizens off. It's a question of the entire construction industry and others that have the ability to raise growth rates if they have an area, a market, if they have buyers. And that's why we think this is very important and that we can't miss it with our appeals, but we have to go through the intervention. Very clearly, given that there were several discussions on whether it would increase the interest rate. Well, it won't increase. At the time of prolongation, there's interest, it's earned. Since variable interest rates are made more, as some banks have raised rates on housing loans, already existing housing loans. So the bank doesn't have any negative effects. However, when we talk about prolongation payments are paid, interest payments are paid. But we need to know that there is a possibility in the Financial Institutions Act that the National Bank will prescribe mandatory elements of the general conditions of business. And that's what we have to use to make banks binding. But as I see it, the biggest dissatisfaction is just by raising interest, by really raising interest, that it's dissatisfaction by strengthening extra profits in banks. The SDP Club will also offer the Extra Profit Tax Act because it stems from these discussions. But we'd be happier if the government suggested it. So I repeat again. Don't make an appeal to cut the interest. So we have the right as a fiscal authority to determine that because of the dysharmony, because of the enormous profits of the bank while the rest of the poor, we have the right to tax it and direct it to health care, in whatever way we want, in the needs of the citizens, to encourage the economy. So if the banks don't want to hear it, we're going with a law like that, and today's debate shows exactly that. But if that happens again, the SDP will have negative support. Why isn't the government proposing him? Because if constantly everyone in the Parliament, but everyone in the Parliament points out the extra profit of banks, which is the problem with measures, that by intervention, by laws, because it's the right of fiscal authorities to subtract what's acquired at the expense of another's poverty. Let's not pray anymore, so people, time doesn't allow us to pray. We are here to protect those who lose in recession, not to pray to those who earn. So, one law and the other. And if the government really doesn't make a proposal in the next 15 days, the SDP will offer it to you for extra profits. It would be a lot easier to determine when extra profits are going, but we'll offer ourselves, so maybe we'll open the debate and see what happens next. But you understand instead of the state intervention appeal and the extra profit, and also the protection of citizens for housing loans.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29157	Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29158	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So this law of ours is an intervention measure from the SDP's anti-recession package, which means that the reason for its proposal is this particular situation. So, this recession, according to counterpart Linic, is a brutal recession that has resulted in the collapse of a number of economic operators and consequently large job losses. Of course, the dismissed workers will lose their permanent income and will not be able to serve their credit responsibilities, and the credit responsibilities of Croatian citizens are indeed huge. From 1996 to the end of 2008, wages in Croatia, for example, increased 2.6 times, and credit debts to banks increased more than 18 times. Currently, loans from Croatian citizens amount to 127 billion kuna. It is per capita, so per Croatian citizen, 28 thousand. According to the Croatian family, it is 100,000. According to the employee, it is 80 thousand kuna or about 15 average salaries. Out of this total amount of 127 billion kuna, 50 billion waste on housing loans. When Mr. Maric spoke in front of the HDZ club about this law, he stressed one specific feature of the credit responsibility of Croatian citizens in relation to citizens from surrounding countries. In fact, with total loans from Croatian citizens, housing loans are participated with something about 30%, so with 1/3, while with citizens of other European countries the participation of residential loans is far, far higher, or more than 70%. What does that really mean? This actually confirms that Croatian citizens are most in debt to meet the basic needs of life. So, for the bread of our daily life, so to speak, for survival, and far less for housing needs. Mr. Maric also insists on respecting the treaty, which is something that we absolutely agree with in legally regulated countries. But not in Croatia. Therefore, banking contracts must be respected, and for example the labour contract does not. The worker does the job and doesn't get paid, and he has a contract. He's got a job contract. So the contracts in Croatia are obviously not the same either. The stronger ones make the rules, and the weak, unfortunately, lose regularly. So we think and we are convinced that this bill of ours should have support. This is the more banks as the other party, so the other contracting parties really have enough financial space to enable citizens to make the repayment of loans possible. In fact, the international reserves of the Croatian National Bank are larger than 10 billion euros right now, the banking industry, we heard this in several today's debates, is far the most profitable activity since the daughters in Croatia make 3 to 4 times more profits than their mothers' banks in the domestic European countries, and they earn it precisely on Croatian citizens. The gross profits of business banks made in 2008 amounted to nearly 6 billion kuna. And good bank business results continue to come true in 2009. Their profits, for example in January 2009 increased over 40% compared to the same month of 2008. And these are all actually very strong arguments for accepting this legislative proposal. After all, this is also a more acceptable solution to banks than the implementation of the property of bankrupt citizens. In fact, what would banks with these properties in their portfolio when the real estate market in Croatia was saturated? There's no purchasing power. At this point in the Croatian real estate market, we have over 13,000 apartments that do not have customers. And finally, another important remark. The law on credit institutions in Chapter 24 which speaks of consumer protection obliges credit institutions, including the Croatian National Bank to take care of consumers, i.e. credit users on the basis of general terms of business of credit institutions. Unfortunately, it is obvious from the bank's behaviour that they do not show too much social sensitivity to the problems of Croatian citizens where they earn very well. The profit law actuated every sense of responsibility for the users of the credit. And as many times as yet, banks in Croatia are willing to consume only legal rights, and they are in no way ready to consume legal obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29159	Thank you. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29160	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I support this bill, although I am aware that it has one serious flaw. This serious flaw is that it is addressed to the parliamentary procedure and is not addressed to the HDZ presidency. We were even saying we were gonna do it, but this was sent at the end of the 1st month, and then something before we became aware of the situation. And the situation is more or less clear. They have banks, and these citizens that the law refers to don't. With this proposal, the bank wouldn't lose, and these citizens would get something. It would take time for them to get along, to make general circumstances better, and to continue their lives normally with and without a lost apartment. And how do banks behave when it comes to their skin? They immediately hurried to try to lower the price of new loans by approving fixed interest when it comes to the real estate of the builders they had financed. If you're a man who's been paying off a loan for years, and you've been pushed by the crisis, you're out of a job, and a few bankers will have that kind of understanding. But banks don't need to be resented. They take care of themselves and their profits. And who cares about the citizens? You should be the government. And how? Well, just like the SDP suggests. And, however, these proposals are being prescribed with some kind of two months away, so I expect this proposal to be rewritten soon. Why should this group of citizens be helped? Because they are in a worse situation even from the Croatian government, they are in a worse situation than the famous "banana". In fact, the government's revenues fell by 10.5 billion kuna of about 120 billion kuna. That's about 9%. These people who lost their jobs fell by 100% because they have zero kunas, no more salaries. Now, when the government's income drops 8%, then a contract like this collective union deal is no longer as strong as this loan contract would be. There are talk of freezing, returning, various political and other debates about whether everyone should bear the burden. That's when the government falls 8%. When the government's incomes fall 8%, these citizens have dropped 100%, then it's called grinding the proposal, and then our budget is late coming to the Parliament, not 15 November, but far later. So when he comes to the Parliament at the last minute he changes, so he defends himself in a way that he doesn't get attacked even though we're aware he's not good at holding water, so the rebalancing, etc., is doing a lot of analysis for the 8% drop in income. And these people have dropped their incomes 100%. Those citizens to whom this law applies, and these are those who have lost their jobs because of this crisis, also analyzed their situation prior to the loan and took a certain risk. At that point, they couldn't know about this crisis, among other things, because the government until recently said there was no crisis, and now it comes as a good excuse. So they couldn't have known about this crisis. They took the risk, and it's time for the state to show a certain understanding of them for this year. Unfortunately, judging from the predecessors' statements, this bill will not be supported. Unfortunately, because of those citizens who have lost their income, their budget no longer holds water and judging by how unfortunately this law will pass until the masters leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29161	Thank you. One correction to the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29162	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here, I must correct my colleague's incorrect claim that this law has one menu. It's not true, this law has a lot of faults. Besides the rest, most of the other laws are mostly inconclusive, largely overpriced, and people are glad to hear that they are cared for by someone who has never cared for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29163	Ms. Representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29164	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. Here, I am sure that proposing such a law is not a way and a means that could effectively address the problem of paying off citizens' housing loans, which, for any reason in 2009, remain jobless. First, it is proposed that the law should only apply for a period of one year and only to citizens who remain unemployed from 1.11.2008 to 31.12.2009, so it is selective. The law must not be conceived in such a way as to be applicable only to a certain number of citizens, only to those who lose their employment during that time period. What about those who were out of work before November 1st? I'm sure it's harder for them. Or those to whom it happened after December 31st, 2009? And what do you say to these people, that they haven't had any luck or suggested changing the law? I am unable to understand that such laws are proposed which are not initially applicable, which contain basic institutional shortcomings, failures and irregularities. The law should be a document which provides security, protection or the exercise of certain rights to all citizens equally without allowing the benefit of one group or groups but which legally obliges participants to enforce legal provisions and imposes sanctions on those who do not. This is just a proposal for some measures that may produce some results. On the other hand, even in the light of the law, the proponent did not explain how it would be implemented, who would ensure its proper application, but comment on the ongoing economic crisis and concluded that it would at least partially mitigate the consequences of the poor standards of the unemployed but part of the citizens. I have already expressed my disagreement with this kind of legal proposal before when proposing similar laws, and I still stand at the view that laws must be seriously prepared, that they must have their legal basis, that they must contain all legal elements, that they must be clear, defined and applied in life and that they must be well explained. How do I feel that this proposal doesn't have almost any of these elements I can't accept and I suggest that it refuses.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29165	Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. I'm sorry, replicator Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29166	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, to an esteemed colleague I have to admit, I didn't quite get it when she tried to explain who the law applies to and that the law couldn't be selective. If she read the law right here, it is the law on the prolongation of housing loans in 2009 and as such a law is aimed at people who have raised housing loans and who really when they were raised they could not know that Croatia will not be bound to America but thanks to the very work of this extremely bad government to enter into as Prime Minister Sanader himself said in "banana". I can tell you we're not even in a banana anymore than we ate banana peel. On the other hand, I'm yours. ... I didn't hear you, Coli Solic. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And listen, we'll see how you go in the 17.5th election in that same Djakov. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, it is precisely because of the poor policies of the Croatian government and I appeal to you to support this law in order to enable these people, and this law can be extended, allowing them precisely to overcome this difficult situation and the crisis in which Croatia is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29167	Replica reply, Ms. Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29168	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I'm surprised the gentleman didn't notice it in the law, or he probably didn't read it. The law is selective. So it's about those citizens who are out of a job of one. 11. 2009 to 31. 12. In 2009, which will remain and is selective in this sense that those citizens who stayed before 1. 11, so it wouldn't apply to them. But that's less even important. It is important that this law really touches legal relations and in private legal relations. For that reason he's inapplicable. Such legal proposals are bad because simply touching them in this way would lead to one situation in Croatia in order to bring about a legal uncertainty. What would lead to that? The result would be that we as Croatia would have lower credits... And exactly what this government does, so it makes proposals for those laws that are legally possible, which will not violate that legal certainty in Croatia, because once you violate such real security, it will come to you that financial institutions outside will no longer give you funds, and you know that we still care about these foreign funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the effect on the credit rating, what will it affect? The credit rating reduction will increase interest rates for all loans. Therefore, you must take care of it. And this government, what does this government do? This government is taking measures to combat difficulties in the economy caused by the economic crisis. That's exactly what I'm And therefore, follow this work of government in that part. So it's important for the government to reduce the number of unemployed. That's the goal of this government. It shall apply such measures. And these laws, which touch the one legal certainty of the state, certainly are neither good, reduces credit ratings, and ultimately it will all be broken on citizens. And an increase in their credits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29169	And Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29170	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So today we have here a bill of law which was referred to in the SDP procedure because we were faced with the absolute inaction of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, the governments of the Republic of Croatia could not do anything, because it does not touch that it has the unemployed, or that the number of unemployed is increasing. The government of the Republic of Croatia could not pass such a law because it is separate from the people and citizens. She doesn't meet people who lose their jobs. None of the ministers have met anyone who's been out of a job for a long time. They don't know what it means when someone's out of a job. Now, I did expect from the ruling majority MPs that you were more in touch with the people so that you met who yesterday, the day before yesterday, a month ago, lost his job and who spoke to you and said, "I'm sorry, I'm out of work, I have a loan, I have kids in college or in high school, I can't pay them this, I can't do that. I'm in danger of losing sleep, I'm going to have to move out of my apartment. Well, if you'd tried to think about what you'd do to me, what you'd offer that man as a possible solution. And I allow you to say that what the SDP suggests is not good enough, or that it's not good enough, or that it's as selective as you colleagues say. Although in Croatia we have a light of selective laws. One is, say, the Island Act. It does not apply to all Croatian citizens, so we have selective laws. And that you went with your counter-proposal which is much stronger, which is much more comprehensive, which will respond to all the appeals you make, to all the irregularities that you indicate. But no, you say this is bad. And what are you offering? You're offering that we go out with one polite proposal, that we all stand down in front of the bank directors and make an appeal. Please do not raise interest on housing loans, please do not charge loans to those who remain unemployed, please do not throw people out of their apartments when they cannot pay those loans. But that's not the role of the government and the parliamentary majority. The role of the government is to solve the problem of the citizens, the role of the government is to respond to these demands of the citizens they have. However, unlike that. I have a debate, not a replica. By contrast, not only do you not go on the hands of the citizens, but you take a feather and a fat goose you rub your neck, because in order to pay the salaries to teachers and medics yesterday, you have to issue commercial records, and then you go with a floscul that you find it difficult and expensive to pay 6% of the salary to those people, and to pay them a salary, you issue a commercial record on which you make a donation of 75 and you sell that commercial record of 100 kuna, a commercial record at the price of 96 kuna, so an additional 4%. So in order to pay your salary yesterday, you had to issue a commercial record that cost 12% effectively and in the afternoon you sit down with the unions and talk to them and say, gentlemen, we can't stand a 6% salary increase, it's a terrible burden for this country. But 12% interest on that salary, that's nothing, that doesn't concern us at all. We're not worried that with those 12% of the bank's fat profits, we're not worried that the directors of these banks will pay off the untaxable bonuses of millions, we're not worried that the directors of these banks will pay off the option shares untaxable, that's absolutely not our concern. We're concerned here to make it possible for people to have one year of waiting. I'm thinking that really this law will sort of burden the state budget. But gentlemen, we're not suggesting anything, and we're not asking it to be singled out of the state budget. We're just asking this Parliament to pass the law by which banks will be imposed, so please consider changing the contractual relationship, because any contract may also have an annex. Since you have an annex de facto when you raise interest, it can be an annex in which you're going to say we have one year of beginnings or six months of beginnings, or a start to a certain time. So we can go ask the banks, because if we're willing to pay them 12% to pay people their wages, then I guess we're willing not to appeal to them, not to beg, but to order. Well, we're the ones who are responsible for this country. So we make the rules in this country. So look what some others have passed laws, changed laws in their own countries. To that extent, the day before yesterday or yesterday, President Obama ordered that those who paid their bonuses have those bonuses back. Is that what you do in the market economy? But President Obama allowed it. When someone in Croatia told someone, even in a state-owned company where I see no reason to pay the bonus. Here's your bonus back because you didn't deserve it. Because what you've accomplished, you've achieved by the foundation of that position of the company you run and you've come to that place incapacitated, but by the political will of the ruling majority. Nor was it even an appeal, the need to be made in Croatia. And we today, instead of talking about, for example, the ruling majority's proposal, because I agree, this is not radical enough to introduce what my colleague Linic said, the tax extra profit that's being earned because they interest us in the state with 12% of the cost on commercial records, so that you get some of that 12% back directly into the state budget through the tax. Or, for example, that you have come out with an amendment to our law or amendment of the government that would say that any increase in interest on housing loans will be taxed, thus increasing after the credit is given, because what now increases interest on a credit that is realised. Well, that's the money they got. That's the money the bank borrowed from someone, yeah, she got here, so she gave it to the citizens. And now for that money that's been spent, the bank is raising interest on new loans. It could be a new interest policy. But on realized loans, there's no reason to raise interest. So, give the amendment where we're not going to ask for credit prolongation, but an amendment where we're going to say it's going to be taxed by 50, 70%, I don't know how much. Any difference in interest on housing loans that have already been made. Because, as my colleague Bauk says, the banks were very concerned when it came to the danger that the companies they loaned and who build the apartments would not be able to repay those loans. And what did smart banks do? In order to reduce their risk, according to companies that could be in danger of failing so that apartments are not completed and that these loans are not realised at all, it turns them into loans that it now gives to citizens under more favourable conditions. Because it is obvious that it will be easier to collect claims from citizens than from construction companies. So it'll be easier if it comes from 10, 20, 30 or 50 apartments than if it has 2, 3, or 5 thousand apartments that are incomplete, which they'll have to sell. Therefore, if this is not good enough for you, give your solution, make your proposal, correct this proposal, we are ready to talk, but we are not ready to negative. We are not ready to push our head back into the sand and that when we get our head out of the sand in 3 months, we are surprised at what was destroyed in those three months in Croatia. We are not prepared to be addicted to the political will of the ruling majority where those who are left out of work will have to come, pray for charity so that they can survive and pray for charity to stay in their apartment. Well, fortunately, there has been housing in the last 10 years, fortunately, a large number of citizens, above all young families have managed to resolve their housing issue. So let's not let these people stay and end up on the street not because we don't have a good solution, but because you don't want to have a solution, because you seem to be preventing banks from doing good and profitable business rather than being interested in citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29171	Thank you. Two corrections. First. Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29172	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Mrsic wrongly stating that we can order the banks for what's already happened. We can create some conditions in advance, but I guarantee that all European courts will go in favour of the bank if we change anything now. That's one thing. Another false assumption is that we don't listen to the people, we listen. And the people speak very simply, the SDP proposes this law to protect its mayors, mayors, mayors who will after 17. Five, you're out of a job. There he is.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29173	Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29174	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct two incorrect allegations from my colleague Mrsic. I first quote, "Big bonuses are paid to corporate directors without taxation." This finding is not correct, the truth that bonuses are paid huge, very often unwarranted but that all these bonuses are paid contributions, taxes and taxes as well as regular wages is true. I would also correct the second allegation that, in discussions, representatives of the HDZ Club do not care about protecting the interests of citizens and are more concerned about the protection and interests of banks, that is not true. Because neither one, today no debate has gone nor referred to the interests of the banks. On the contrary, they all spoke against the huge, enormous profits made by the business banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29175	Two replicas. Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29176	Dear Mr. Vice President, here's a moment ago it was said that Obama, the American president, could say "return bonuses". Bonuses in the United States need to be returned to those countries that are the state, that is, that is, that is, the United States has rescheduled with dozens or hundreds of millions of dollars or billions of dollars. Croatian banks that are all listed by foreigners, this state is fortunately not at this moment... So the bonuses are decided by the owners of... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] via Hypo... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And don't let me count on it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But where's the problem now? The problem is that our governments, it doesn't matter, right, left, sold them, sold them, Maric says for 5.4 billion kuna, I insist on 7 billion kuna, previously resuscitating them with 13 billion kuna, which is why we transferred the defacto sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia to, come on, some of the second-rate European banks. It is a crime involving Croatian governments. The crime was afforded by Croatian governments to Croatian citizens, and someone in this country should be responsible, but as we can see, only the overindebted citizens will answer. As far as extra profits are concerned, it is clear that it needs to be particularly taxed, not only by banks but also by some Croatian monopolies, regardless of where they are based, whether in Istria, Slavonia, Dalmatia or elsewhere. Because the monopoly to paraphrase here Skegra is a state evil. Private monopoly is far the greatest evil. It doesn't matter that they have the media, that they'll go hard on us. But what's important is that they've become insecure, not just enough to share hundreds of millions of kunas net profit after tax, but now they want to participate directly in power. E power needs to send them a clear message. That's where I absolutely support you. There, the IDS will support HDZ, any other political option that will be sent by such a law in the process, that extra profits, monopolies should be particularly taxed.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29177	Damir gently with the media! Mr. Representative Goran Heffer, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29178	Dear fellow Mršić, I share concerns with you, especially I come from a place where a terrible lot of people have entered into housing loans especially young people and those who have managed to get a job for a certain time and have managed to realize it. They'll probably be the first to be out of a job, and in the end, it'll be the way it is. I'm also surprised that no one from the government started anything without the interest of the banks being difficult to say until they tried. I'll remind you that last year, at the end of last year, one of the biggest housing savings she offered herself something like that and went out to meet. So let's try to do something, and we'll see if we can. Not everything here seems to reject the bill's proposal without any other offers, and what's weirdest is that here's exactly an hour ago to look on the Internet, so in 11 and 54 it was announced that HDZ's majority rejected the SDP's proposal to postpone the loan payment. So, the story is obviously over as soon as it came from the SDP. This is probably what journalists recognize, and it is sad that such an important topic is being recognised, especially for young people who have barely been able to get a job in this way refuse only because it comes from the SDP ranks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29179	State Secretary Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29180	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Just for a little while. So, one reflection on this final debate now regarding appeals, neappella, act and inaction. And I am also referring to the debate of the esteemed representative Mršić. So I still have to correct an incorrect claim. So, I know it was a lapus. It's not a commercial, it's a vault record of the Ministry of Finance, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but not of 12%. So that interest is still at a level of between 7 and 8%. Just so you know, every Tuesday the Ministry of Finance calls banks, pension funds, investment funds to auctions because it simply has a certain need for liquidity. And you know very well, therefore, that the periodicals of the collection of income and the execution of expenditure within the month are not uniform, so there is also a need for such issues. But at the same time, it should be said that this same vault record continues to be further marketed in the sense that banks can use it as collateral... Croatian National Banks and thus actually the Croatian National Bank has one additional mechanism and instrument of liquidity control. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But also when I've already stopped for a pay phone just to say it. So, you keep talking, and I agree with those who say the government can't just stay on appeal. But I also think it's very clear that we're not just standing on appeals and trying to be on appeals. Let's start at 10 months. As many times as we have mentioned here, so the government's decision or proposal, the government's pardon proposal, the Parliament confirmed it on an increase in savings deposit insurance limit from 100 to 400,000. At the same time, very intense talks and meetings took place. So, so much to say about communication between Croatian banks, the Croatian National Bank and the Ministry of Finance, or the Government. A number of transactions that have happened, you've learned something from the media, etc. through our communications. But a whole series of meetings, I don't think there's any need for us to bring agendas and notes from those meetings. But the government simply with its measures and activities and instruments influenced banks not to go further with interest increases. Just one picturesque example from the second month. You remember very well the 15.2. payment was made by that EUR 500m-euro bond. You know that this was a coordinated action between the Croatian National Bank and the Ministry of Finance, by which the Croatian National Bank reduced the minimum required foreign debt claims from 28 and a half to 25. This opened certain funds to banks available among other things, thus intended for binding. The Croatian National Bank has made it very clear that this, the business relationship between banks and the finance ministry, is being done bilaterally. We have also done this to the public and the media, including many economic analysts, others can say pleasantly surprised that, for example, the price of this unioned loan was below their expectations. So a number of questions were as soon as we blackmailed them, and we made it very clear that the bankers themselves confirmed without any blackmail only by arguments, arguments about how and how to lead economic policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29181	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Zastavnik Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29182	So, just to establish the exact quote, and the exact quote is at today's auction of vault records, I'm sorry, they're vaults. The finance ministry planned an amount of 100 million kuna, while 52 million kuna was reached. The term is 182 days, which means they're half-year old. You've sold 100 kuna per 96 kuna, which means 4% you've given the discount and you've given interest a year of 7.75. At the annual level, that would mean more than 12% of the cost for that vault record. Since it's a semi-annual issue, you gave 4% of the discount. That goes up to 14 to 15% of the cost on that 52 million kuna. That's where you paid your ten-day salary. Therefore, you are the wages where you complain that 6% of you are expensively paid by banks 14 to 15% of the cost of that money.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29183	This was probably a correction to an incorrect explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29184	Now, this was a determination of the exact quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29185	Correction of the exact quote was that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29186	No, that was an exact quote. It wasn't the correction of the incorrect, it was the determination of the correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29187	Explanation of the exact quote. Secretary, make a note of that. Business practices are being enriched again. Very creative. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29188	These days I have seen a questionable optimistic and pessimistic graphite in Zagreb, which reads: "In Croatia nothing succeeds and neither will the crisis." This first part seems to be correct, and this second part, so I'm saying it's dubious, is still something different than the graphite says. Somehow on this trail is on two occasions and the exposure of our distinguished secretary of state, the gifted secretary of state, by the way, be told from Slavonski Brod that the bankruptcy of the state will not be, and also the warnings especially on my colleague Cain that we do not spread or spread or sow panic at citizens by sending black hunches and messages. But, Mr. Secretary of State, the Croatian people are really patient, although the unbelief of statements and appearances of both prime ministers and the Government is breaking over their backs. When I say unbelief, then I think of statements that Croatia will only be slightly bred by the global economic crisis given in November of last year, that it will not grow the unemployment rate, it is growing daily, that we will defend the exchange rate of kuna, and we all know that somewhere two and three months ago it was 7.14, now it is 7.5, round, that there will be no interest on loans, although I have personally received notice from one bank that my war or meal has increased. It is predicted and said that there will be an economic growth rate of about 3%, and here we now have to talk not about the rate of economic growth, but about the rate of economic decline, or as they say the negativity of growth, which is funny to me, so it's about economic downturn. Twice, you go to a correctional exam at the savings ministries, then you send an optional media appeal, a request, or as someone said the prime minister's proposal to banks about non-interest increases, etc. Savings, cutting wages, fearing the International Monetary Fund as a grandmother's horn, not perhaps by the hand of a drowned man. The old Croatian proverb says "In the doings of everything is more, in saving even more." So, first of all work. Work, manufacturing, then saving. What will save one who doesn't earn anything and who doesn't have anything? He can't save anything. Perhaps the independent media, I may have to cross this off like on those posters and those prospectuses for one of our banks, pump fear of the International Monetary Fund, represent the IMF, to shorten as something that is dangerous for Croatia, as something that Croatia doesn't need or is not needed. And why is that? Well, because the feud and the feudal benefits would be at stake. Our state by the structure of the government is actually so feudalized, and then the structure of that feud is manifested and consists of nepotism, clienteleism, careerism and predatory. With the arrival of the IMF, many of these contents would certainly fall off. I spoke to a friend from Slavonski Brod just before, so he told me, MP, tell me that the banks and this SDP proposal are just crumbs, that they're just rags, that they used to be a river cloth in the sea of what should actually be changed. So he told me how is it that foreign companies, corporations, clearly banks can work in Croatia for Croatian citizens more unfavourable conditions than they do in their home countries? For example, the worker, come on, I don't want to advertise some company trade here, but the Austrian firm here in Croatia has 2,000 kuna wages, and the average personal income is 5 600 in Croatia. In Austria, this same worker or employee, however you like in that retail chain, has exactly the average personal income of an average Austrian. So 1,500 euros and he has 1,500 euros. So our worker works in Croatia for 30% of the average personal income, 35, and in Austria it works exactly as much as the average personal Austrian income. Furthermore, how is it that the hair is caught in Germany by people who would use Deutsche Telekom, as it is already called, services, and in our case, a orderly subscription to the damages of Croatian citizens and their pockets is charged? How is it that these services occupy 15% in the consumer basket in Croatia, so telephone services and others, and in other countries from Europe, Europe 5 to 10%? It's a mugging of the Croatian people. It's a robbery, and people or citizens make a state. It is a Croatian state robbery with extra profits coming out of Croatia without any control. And we here today are discussing whether we have instruments and tools to extend or not. So some say we will lower Croatia's credit rating. No, you don't, and let the citizens die. So it's not just about banks, but we have other things here, bigger things to solve, so it's simpler because the truth is deep water. We've actually become vasals, not feudals, bigger feudals. Therefore, this bill, which is generally well-intentioned and good, but we can see already on the Internet that it was rejected, although there was no vote. There are no conditions. So, one, if some crumb were to be realized for the people in trouble, for our citizens, obviously I say it will not pass, although I will personally raise my hand for this proposal and I would only ask for a change of names, that is, a prolongation because it has a Croatian term to extend the payment of housing loans, and not a prolongation, and then I will especially raise my hand for it, but the Croatian Parliament has much more important and much smarter work to discuss some systematic issues relating to the robbery of this country, which is why I would have said so already slowly that it is a banana state, and we don't want to be, we really don't want to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29189	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29190	Thank you very much. I agree with all the statements except for one saying that's incorrect. A colleague, Grubisic, said: "Nothing in Croatia succeeds except...". That's incorrect. I think in Croatia most of the things work. You said nothing worked in Croatia. I'll just say what worked. So this is incorrect because in Croatia it succeeded next. We managed to take down our project of communism. We have managed to defend Croatia's country against a twice as strong enemy in Serbian aggression. We managed to establish a democratic order in Croatia. We have managed to bring gross national income to the highest level among all countries in the region. We managed to bring Croatia ten years after the war to the threshold of Euro-Atlantic integration. So it is incorrect that nothing works in Croatia, most of the important things succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29191	My colleague Grubisic, you cannot react under the company's injury to the rules of procedure to the incorrect claim of an incorrect claim. Don't do that. I see you've picked up the tile and you wanted to react immediately to this claim. ... You can't use the replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The replica has Mr. Damir Cain, so you Mr. Grubisic will wait for Mr. Cain to give the replica and you will... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29192	Boro... I speak plainly. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] I advocate absolute trust in banks and something else that no one has talked about, about returning consumption to Croatia because without it, there is no simple future or jobs. What's certainly good is that our banks are stable. You should trust the banks. I claim the safest money is in the banks. I've been going through the agony of an Istrian bank that hasn't been settled with a single kuna of budget money, and I just don't want anyone. If we take down the banks, the state is gone, but neither the banks are allowed to bring down the state with their profits, ranging between 40 and 50% at the annual level. I agree with you, in 2009 Croatia, I keep saying it has less sovereignty than we had since 91st, because we can be blackmailed by second-rate European banks. Who's responsible for that? This is the responsibility of the Croatian Government and is the responsibility of the Assembly. Governments that sold rescheduled banks and MPs who would sneak off on those intentions. But also one thing we have to admit to foreign banks is that in some way they have regained confidence in these banks because the Croatian banks as they were led until the end of the 1990s were de facto no one believed. But today these banks are also, and we can say, in charge of Croatia, but that is why they are not as guilty as the governments who lived on only imports and never produced. So what do we do now? It is clear that the government needs to be changed, and it is clear that there is a need to continue to have confidence in these banks as well as in such banks, but banks also need to correct their interest. We need to refinance the loans, everything's on the table, the store fell 13.7% in the first month. Let's just ask ourselves how much less VAT is in the budget. 512 people lose their jobs every day. How much less is the contribution to the budget? And so much really needs to be sent a message, the banks are stable but the same thing needs to be done and spending needs to be increased because without it we won't be able to keep our jobs. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29193	Okay. I hope you didn't mean to change me, me as a government. Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29194	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Caine, I didn't say you were panicking, but Mr. Secretary of State once after your presentation warned that we don't send such black messages and hunches here, and that we don't panic with the public, that's what I'm talking about. And then you said on the way, that as a replica, I would call on it, that, however, with these banks, it was successful to increase consumption in Croatia, etc. And everything in Croatia has worked, namely the former speaker before you. We've managed crime, and the mafia, and everything in our country is working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29195	Vice-President Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29196	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The debate has gone quite extensively so I will remind only that the debate on this law is actually a debate on how to act in a very small segment that appears or will appear in an increased number as a consequence of the crisis. Or as one fellow MP said in previous discussions, this law that should be the answer to a situation where the unemployed will find themselves and those who will be in an unembarkable situation to make their situation a little less unembarkable or to provide them with some sort of ray of light at the end of the tunnel. And that is the essence of this law. That's why we need to raise our hands for him or against him if we disagree. And of course it's not the best, nor the only possible solution, nor is it the answer to all the problems that are caused by both the banking system and the crisis, and global financial crises, recessions, uncovered or imbalances between the real economy or speculative financial processes. And let's not forget that. It is only a question of whether we are ready here in this small part of the law without solving all these other issues that have been opened here with full right on both sides of Parliament whether we want those people who are out of work, who can remain and without a roof over their heads to provide light at the end of the tunnel, to give them as a colleague says not prolongation but some kind of delay so that they can eventually solve their problem with the help of the state with their own involvement with repairing the situation in the economy to work again and continue to return credit. But anyway, I won't miss the chance not to take advantage of this debate and not say anything about that banking system of ours. I agree with many debates, critical debates here that went to banks, but I don't think banks are bad guys, or that those who run banks are bad guys who are being boasted and abused by situations both citizens and states. So we realize that these banks and those who run those banks are just being rational and they will always behave rationally for the benefit of their owners and for the benefit of their profits. However, let us also not forget that these banks, however strong they are, operate and operate within the rule of law, a state that should be stronger than their rational behaviour, but behaviours that are not in favour of the development of the economy and which may be some kind of interest in these crisis situations. Therefore, a state which is not because the state is independent and independent, but because it has legal instruments, must be stronger and the sea, except for good and decent talks with these banks, use these instruments and force these banks to behave rationally, but in different conditions. I agree, too, especially with the debate of fellow Maric, who said that one balance should be established there. The balance between banks, economies, states, citizens. Because what else is going on? And the banks are threatened, and they won't continue, and they can go on and on like this forever, doing business like this and making a profit. If that's the case, I'll give you a brief example. Recently, in a conversation, an entrepreneur who employs 300 people complained that a business bank without being ready to talk at all wanted to block a jury account for a debt of about 100 thousand kuna, and that his 300 workers, whose blockades could lead to serious problems, had a 12 million kuna debt bank, raised loans. So this bank is now ready to cut off over 100,000 kunas of small debt for one entrepreneur, ready to cut off and question that 12 million. Obviously, they are still not seriously concerned about the impact of the crisis on their business. In addition, the fact that they are not at all interested in the economy, that they are not at all concerned that even citizens are no longer interested in it, because it is obvious that they still have a country that lends more and more on the domestic market and although we are in the country boasting that the debt of the state is falling abroad, the debt of the state is indirectly growing through the debt of domestic banks, because domestic banks are in debt abroad, the state lends more and more interest money to them in domestic banks, and there is another round being closed. There are many of those circles that can be closed and that can cost us all dearly. And that's why I don't agree at all with those who think they're only decent appeals, even from this assembly, the way you talk to banks and negotiate. I don't agree with those who think that banks should be sent threatening messages, that they should be taken up against banks, but I advocate and support all those who here in the assembly have said that the state, or the government, is obliged to use all the instruments it has to put into frames and then solve many open issues, we will not solve them until the end. One of the instruments is this law. The second is certainly the story that opened here today and will certainly interest banks and bankers, which is that the state has the instrument to tax some extra bank profits, so that it can tax interest growth on certain types of loans. And let it be a message. I don't think we should argue with bankers, on the contrary, I think we should talk to them and as they behave rationally, I think the state should behave rationally in the existing conditions. And these conditions are dear colleagues with this, and I'm going to finish, that in the last month, without a job and at the Employment Service, more than 14,000 people applied. One part of it got a job, but the whole thing was 8,000 more unemployed than there were a month before that. After 9 years of constant growth of the number of employees in the economy, we heard just recently that for the first time the number of employees was reduced, which is the data we are interested in not believing 5 thousand jobs. Those are your terms. It's a constant decline in consumption, it's a decline in gross social product, it's interest growth, regardless of whether we're talking about interest on loans owed by the population or by the state. These are the conditions in which we decide today whether or not we will vote in favour of this law. This law is simply a light at the end of the tunnel for those who have lost their jobs and who can therefore be left without an apartment. Some have lost their jobs and will continue to repay loans because they are otherwise managed, but some have no exits and this law should be. And that is the essence and essence of this other, and all of this is a debate of a broader nature and as far as I'm concerned, I really expect the Government of the Republic of Croatia to use all the instruments to establish harmony between the financial real sector of the state economy and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29197	Thank you. Five-minute debate, IDS Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29198	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. What am I trying to convince you of? That it's supposed to save apartments but it's supposed to be saved primarily in this country of jobs. With what? Good loans. Why? The loans need to be refinanced. It's all right. I'll do it again. Trade had a lower income of 13.7% in January 2009. Come on, let's ask ourselves, how much less of a VAT in the state budget. Reko, 512 people lose their jobs in February. How much less will it be to contribute to the state budget. What should we do at this point? So it is necessary to send a message to the Croatian public. You need to increase consumption. No spending, no shopping, no sales, no construction, no travel, everything stands, everything blocks, nothing just doesn't move. But without spending, there are also no bank revenues, but God has no revenue in the budget, and without budget revenues, there is no development, then wages are falling, pensions are even being threatened to question pensions themselves, or salaries. If Minister Shuker is afraid we won't be paid, then he'll be together, not with Mr. Shakespeare, but the government must leave. If it's true he doesn't have any salaries or pensions, then Mr. Shucker, along with the government, but not Shakespeare, too, should be gone. Mr. Shakespeare will stay until the next election and then maybe someone else will have that place. It's clear that what we've heard here is that we need to tax extra profits, not just banks, tax extra profits and monopolies. Some monopolies are state-owned, like Croatian waters, like HEP, some are private. I won't count them now, but also the parties then of those monopolies, when messages are sent to them, they can't receive any donations. As far as loans are concerned, it's good that the banks are stable. You should trust the banks. I'll do it again. The safest money is to save in our banks. I said just before from the scene, I was going through agony with an Istrian bank, that bank wasn't once remedied by the state. I don't want that to anybody. If we bring down trust in banks, we've brought down a simple state, but neither can the banks bring down the state with their megalomania. And that's why banks need to correct their loans that at this point or get over 50%. Today everyone, every second-rate bank, can blackmail the state and whoever brought us to it, I said, above all, the Croatian Government and the Servility of the Parliament. But we also have to admit to the banks, so whatever they are, that they have regained citizens' trust to save in these banks, because we know very well what happened by the end of the '90s. Banks after 2000, the exception is Rijeka Bank, they are mostly stable, they do not need to be rehabilitated, it is positive, they hire, they earn, they pay taxes, come on, they don't extract profits, they return it through we know what, but they also owe it to the state but still it's not the fault of banks as much as on governments that simply financed the consumption from imports and not through production. I absolutely agree that those who are in trouble have to get a chance to prolong or what I know is what they say, extend the deadline for paying off their loans. Well, it's no original innovation at this point. Well, that's what Berlusconi does, so that's what Sarkozy does, so that's what they do... So that's what everybody's doing, they're going to go for that if the company gets in trouble, they need to get the loans back in five years, and here's the year 2009, it's a tough year, it's a crisis year, so give back the sixth year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, that's the point, that's the point. Equally the point is interest. This interest of 8, 9, 10, 11, 12% in Croatia is too high. In Great Britain, it is 0.5%, in Italy up to 2%, in Germany and France as well. Why is interest important? Well, what I was talking about, to encourage consumption, that's the point. It needs to increase consumption, it can only get Croatia out of trouble, and who can do it, and only one who has money. And the money has banks. In this way we will increase trade, construction, investment, travel, I don't know how to buy cars, but ultimately our banks will have bigger profits.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29199	Thank you. Before the final review, State Secretary Zdravko Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29200	Thank you very much, just for a little while. So, the esteemed representative Cain and I, they say, are collokitally "on the green branch", on the interpretation of the words of Minister Shuker. So I'm going to say it one more time, Minister Schucker neither threatened anyone, nor was he showing anyone any threats, any catastrophic situations or anything like that. So we were talking about a package of anti-recession measures. What's already been said several times. The salaries and pensions have been paid so far and we will continue to keep them that way. That certain difficulties and certain disorders exist. And I think we're witnessing, is, in particular, this month, what day was late. But they are still paid, and we will remain on it, or we will continue to do so. But there were certainly no threats.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29201	Thank you. Final review on behalf of...... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29202	Minister Shuker said there won't be any pay. If Minister Schuker brought this country along with the government into this situation in the country, then he and the government must leave. Yeah, but you're saying we're gonna try to pay the wages, not that you're gonna.../The speaker's shut down./... but the salaries and pensions have to pay off. It must be a priority as well as a priority...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29203	Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec, on behalf of the motionary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29204	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We propose this law prolongat on the payments of housing loans to those citizens who will be jobless in 2009. In fact, the fact is that banks can do so with their general operating conditions, some banks do so, but we think that a certain intervention and state is needed because many countries in the world do so. So they intervene in times of crisis. Since this is the first reading of the law and his first procedure has been removed, we accept the government's proposal not to limit the time limit when the worker is out of work, so that all workers who are jobless and unable to repay housing loans can use this prolongata measure for 2009. I will repeat that banks in Croatia are in a privileged position. They make high profits, they don't pay taxes on capital gains. So neither on high interest, nor on dividends and they must have hearing for both the economy and the citizens of the believers, as they have and, for example, according to these times, to construction companies that can't sell apartments and banks have followed them in this construction. I will repeat that the appeal cannot solve problems or achieve effects. They can get rid of a law like this. Unfortunately, of the 10 measures, the anti-recession measures offered by the government and on the basis of which the budget rebalances only the tenth measure speaks of maintaining the life standard of the most vulnerable groups of society. In fact, nothing can be read out of this measure, as it says in the accompanying section that an adequate level of funding will be provided to maintain the life standard of the most vulnerable groups of populations. What are the appropriate measures? In what sense will the Government in that segment work on budget rebalancing, we won't actually know until the budget arrives on our benches. In order for something more important to be done through budget rebalancing, certain laws should also be amended. One such measure that will not be linked to the costs of the state budget is this law that we propose. That's why I call on my colleagues and colleagues to accept this law in our first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29205	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing at 15.00 hours with agenda item Proposal for a basis for calculating government officials' salaries in 2009. Proposer: SDP representative club. The Constitutional Committee has a meeting at 1400 hours, so it will discuss point 9. The final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State should this be discussed and if the report arrives, then I will propose a merger of the debate of point 2 and point 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29206	Proposal for a law on the prolongation of the payment of residential loans in 2009, first reading, Proposer: I am giving the vote the conclusion according to the proposals of the parliamentary working bodies and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which reads: "The Proposed Law on the prolongation of the payment of residential loans in 2009. A year.". Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. This proposal was accepted by 74 votes to 26 against. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, we continue to work and I propose in agreement with, whether, the representative of the SDP Club, that the 2nd point and 9, so the proposal for a law establishing a basis for calculating the salaries of government officials in 2009, first reading, P.Z. No. 252, Proposer of the SDP Club and 9, Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 299, discuss it unitedly. Because it's actually about the same, as I would say, matter that's being discussed. Any objections to that? I don't think there's any need to increase the number of minutes for introductions to neither clubs nor representatives, but let's discuss two points of the agenda together. Thank you. So we move to - Proposal for a law establishing a basis for calculating the salaries of government officials in 2009, first reading, P.Z. No. 252, Proposer: SDP's club and - Final draft law amending the Law on Obligations and Rights of State officials, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. This first act shall be proposed by the SDP Representatives Club on the basis of Article 129. Rules of Procedure. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading apply to the adoption of this law and second to the first and second readings. You took the materials into the boxes. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. On behalf of the SDP advocates' club, Ms. MP and Vice-President Željka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29208	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. It is before us at the debate on the decision-making of the draft law establishing the basis for calculating the salaries of government officials in 2009 which, in its essence, in its content actually defines a certain reduction in the salaries of officials for 2009. However, I must make a small step into the past because this law was sent in the procedure on 28 January at the time when no salary was paid in 2009 and was directed with the intention to make a decision for all 2009 on which the basis for calculating officials' salaries would remain at the same level as last year. I remind you that at that time in early 2009, as a result of the union and government negotiations, the basics for calculating the salaries of officials and subsistence who are identical to the basis for which the salaries of officials are charged are increased by 6%. Because of this ex post, I would say in relation to the content of the late debate on this law, I had to make this introduction. The aim of the SDP Representatives' Club's proposal was to leave the salaries of officials at the level of the previous year. However, I am obliged to say why we suggested such a thing. In fact, the second half of 2008 was marked by clear indicators, clear indicators and trends that indicated that not only Croatia but the whole world is heading towards a rather economic and financial crisis. All indicators in the second half of 2008 when we talk about Croatia and Croatian statistics showed that we have a stagnation of the number of employees, that the number of employees even in some shorter periods has decreased, showed that the number of unemployed is growing, that each month the number of people newly registered at the employment office is increasing, and that this is not only the result of those who completed education at that time, but that it is simply a matter of serious problems in the economy and the abolition of jobs. In the light of the adoption of the 2009 budget, we have already made this very loud in the SDP club, asking that strict restrictive and austerity measures be implemented within the budget, that the state should waive all those costs that are not necessary at the moment, and that, as a clear political message, as regards how serious the political elite or those who, whether in power or opposition, assume responsibility for the management of the crisis, also retain the salaries of officials at the appropriate level. Since our legal solution assumes the same basis for the salaries of officials and deputies and officials, which is, in principle, good and acceptable, the trade unions also spoke of, it was necessary to propose amendments to the law. This bill of law, which is at the same time an objection that the Government has not accepted or given a negative opinion on this bill, is one of the possible legal solutions. What was likely to be referred to on behalf of the Government by the Proposer on what the Government's proposal was, could have gone to changes to the law, to the existing law in which it was defined today, and could have gone in such a way as the SDP Club suggested. In essence, this proposal and the Government's proposal speak of the same or very similar solutions, some difference, but the big difference arises from the fact that this proposal was to reduce the base by 6% compared to the official, and this proposal today, after the base has already been increased predicts a 10% reduction, is essentially a very similar or the same solution. But what is important is a different time in which these proposals have been made and in this context these proposals should also be considered. This SDP should be considered in the context of any other unpaid salary, in the context of our demands to make the budget rebalancing already at that time and to cut off any unnecessary expenditure including this savings resulting from the application of this law that was adopted on time. Now, for starters, I would not be spreading this story except once again to warn that every lost day at this point does not mean perhaps in a material sense when we talk about a very limited number of officials and the total mass that will be saved, that it does not mean much in this context but in the context of a clear political message, a message that defines us as politicians who assume responsibility and who are willing to share fate with their citizens, with their economies, with their banking, with all segments of society, I think we are losing it. The loss of the credibility of politicians compared to a relatively meaningless element in the downsizing of officials' salaries is certainly too important. This credibility will give us the strength to implement all those measures that should be significant and restrictive measures that should ensure the repair of the situation in the Croatian economy and the halting of trends that are most dangerous, which is the loss of jobs and the decline of living standards. Every missed day that happened in the meantime I will say right here at the beginning we can't forgive the Croatian government for this waste of time, we can't forgive, we can't understand why their proposal or acceptance of our proposal didn't approach the moment it was put into the procedure. We've lost credibility and we've lost certain financial savings within the state budget. I hope that we will reach an agreement and consensus in essence and content to resolve this issue, agree on the basis of a bill proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club or proposed by the Government but ask that we do so as quickly as possible and see how to restore lost credibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29209	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter for this second law proposed by the Government, Mr. Secretary of State of the Central State Administration Mr. Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29210	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I have to rely a little on the presentation of the distinguished Vice-President of Mrs. Antunovic's Parliament, which is an explanation of the SDP bill, which is similar to the objective of the government's bill, said the government had lost credibility because it waited too long. The government is responsible for the conduct of the current economic policy and the government has analysed the state of the economy, the state of charge of the state budget, and the government has also conducted social dialogue. We know that in Croatia the system of payments is arranged by coefficients through several laws, though, but from the President of the Republic to the last official in the state administration office throughout the country and that this structure of coefficients is multiplied by the basis that we get as a result of collective bargaining and that if collective negotiations do not occur, the result of the agreement is not determined by the Government. The government analysed budget filling, analysing economic developments, launched trade-offs with trade unions to remain at the same pay level in 2009 because it was assessed according to the situation at the time that such economic opportunities are such and that it would manage to balance the state budget with wage retention in 2008. Unfortunately, the situation has deteriorated. It has deteriorated because the global crisis, which has produced dramatic consequences in the world's most developed countries since the collapse of banks, pension insurance companies and which has become overrun by the real sector and means the losses of millions of jobs are felt in the Republic of Croatia. Our exporters have difficulty, export orders are dropping, and it's clear that then they lose jobs and that it's all felt in the state budget. The state and state administration, state officials will share the fate of the Croatian people and, according to the government's view, state officials must both be ahead of them and, as a positive example, give up the most and save the most. The SDP proposal was such that officials remain 6% raises and the officials are reduced. It is a beautiful gesture, however economically and mathematically, or however you want it in the general state budget is a very symbolic figure and in no way can improve the financial picture of Croatian society. The Government therefore proposes to amend the Law on Obligations and Rights of State Officials in order to separate the basis, so that the basis for civil servants and subsistences remains the result of collective bargaining. And as we are all witnesses and yesterday the government negotiated with the unions, and will continue negotiations on Friday, wishing together in agreement, we all take responsibility for the situation in society because it is not possible for the economy to have difficulties, that the economy is firing people, that there is no talking about an increase in wages in the economy and that at the same time the state administration is raising wages as if it were not concerned. The government has taken strict austerity measures within all resors, on the results you are familiar with through the media. The government has also taken steps to save public companies to keep that money in circulation for projects that are of interest to the Republic of Croatia, but it is obviously not enough, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to this Law on Mandatory Rights of State officials, the Government adopted in today's session a draft law on amendments to the Law on the salaries of judges and judicial officials and continued collective bargaining with civil servants, with the belief that Friday will reach an agreement on the basis of the salaries of civil servants. Unlike the SDP proposal, which envisions a 6% reduction in wages and not a 6% increase, the government has announced it will go with a more drastic reduction, a proposal for a more drastic reduction. How long will that be, after all? We will see this after further analysis, but so far this has not been possible until the law is changed and the basis for the calculation of the salaries of government officials is divided, from the basis for calculating the salaries of civil servants and subsistence. The thesis was imposed on committees, and I'm going to answer immediately, Mr. President, so it doesn't happen again in the debate, and then I don't have to intervene, how is it that the government determines the salaries of parliamentarians? It's not the idea of this government, it's based on a law that says it's a single basis, and the 2001 Law on civil servants and tenants that still apply to wages, clearly states that the base for calculating wages is determined by collective agreement. Furthermore, Article 108(4) states "if the basis for the calculation of the salary is not determined until the state budget is adopted, the basis shall be determined by the Government". So, in 2001, the government made a decision on the height of the base, so it's up to 2002, so if you want, I can quote "The People's Newspaper." Furthermore, the collective contract in 2002 set the basis, the collective contract since 2003 set the basis, the collective agreement for 2004 set the basis for the government and the union of state services since 21 November 2006 also set a basis, until the date of collective speech of 19 September 2007, the basis was established, so the whole time it was a collective contract, either by the government's decision to establish the basis and there is no speech that the Government is now adopting any right that has not been based on the law. Of course the coefficients remain, the coefficients are established by law and will continue to apply. Ladies and gentlemen, I am asking on behalf of the Government that this law be passed as soon as possible, so we have proposed the first and second reading of the united, urgent procedure so that a decision on the height of the basis can be made much more significant than in the bill proposed by the SDP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29211	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. They're clubs first. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29212	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. What bothers me the most is one way to deceive us from telling lies. Before 30, let's make it 40 or 45 days ago the prime minister of one of my parliamentary questions was about to answer like this. I give everything but pay and pensions I don't give. At that time, I was portrayed as one who would therefore reduce the wages of public servants. No, I don't. I said then, gentlemen, it's not time to think about providing an extra 700 million kuna for an increase in salary. I don't know 30 or 40 days or 45 days, and Minister Schucker's orders again, and in the coming months, there may be no money to pay or even pension. I'm telling Minister Shuker once more, don't play with it, you can't, you don't have the right to scare employees in that public sector, so people who live off their wages. If you're unable to secure your salary, then you'd better leave in time, so you can back off, 'cause everyone's gonna get better. And in this House, I'm also going to say that, and I want to believe that in the government across the street from this square or this building there are also those who live on wages, not what they've acquired from dividends, from rents or something like that. The secretary of state told me earlier that there's no one right here to frighten anyone. But I'll say it one more time. If Minister Shuker scares someone, then he has to leave. If what he's saying is true that we're in a situation where wages or pensions can't be paid, then he and the government that led us to it must go. Fifteen days ago, we were told that the state budget would be reduced by 1.5 billion to 2.5 billion kuna, so ministers proposed something between 2 and 2.1 billion kuna. Today we're told, I don't know, maybe he's afraid of us, that the cut in the state budget in the year ahead will have to be between 10, 11 maybe and 12 billion kuna. 12 billion kunas, man is really asking himself the question, how do 12 billion kunas. So we can cut all capital investments, they're about 7 billion kuna, if we do, we cut the gross social product not to zero percent, but to a few percent below zero. So we can only cut in the area of pensions, or wages, and that is how I dare say bankrupt health care. If this is what we are told here, as the Secretary of State Mr. Palaric had just said earlier, then the employees of the state administration might be happy that by the end of the year they are taken not minus 6, but minus 12% of their salaries, and we can be happy that by the end of the year we are taken not minus 10, but minus 20%. Just to keep the pay regular, that those who have obligations to commercial banks, families, etc. who don't live on dividends, who don't live on I don't know some other income can support their families. What we have to ask ourselves is, who's responsible for all this? Who brought us to that? IDS certainly isn't. The SPD law speaks of these minus 6%. HDZ suggests minus 10%. It was clear to all of you, it was best to make it clear to the unions that minus 10% of MPs, ministers, president of the state, the Prime Minister means minus 6% in the state administration. But about that later. Now, the question arises whether these minus 6% at this point refer only to public administration, or whether this applies to other public services, from Croatian broadcasting, from public companies such as. HEP, Croatian waters and what I know is not everything. In these services hundreds of people get far higher salaries than ministers, we all know that and personally I have nothing against it, but I'm bothered by the calling, because the easiest thing to do is to hang on to the Parliament, the government is already much harder to attack because media owners and they are capital exhibits often depend on the behavior of executive authority. The Parliament can be called normally, the Assembly can be chuckled because everyone knows what and how much we decide. Because clearly, it is not good to question the integrity of this House, because the weaker Parliament is then, the stronger the executive power, the weaker Parliament is the tycoons and these are the parallel centres of power in this country. It would be enough to ask only our mayors sitting in this House whether they are more lucrative, more powerful, more representative, let's say the mayor or the mayor or the representative. Well, they all, if they're honest, will say, well, clearly, the mayor. There they are in a position to share a job, to finance not even some local media, there have some logistics, from a secretary, phones, cards, offices, some representation, the Parliament has nothing, and let's just say it's okay. I argue that everything would change overnight for the better in this country if MPs were elected directly, not on the list, however, it obviously will not happen so soon. Okay, the parliament should also show the gesture, it's probably going to be this minus 10%. A short time ago, Mrs Antunovic mentioned trade unions among other things. I am now asking myself whether union leaders and many are in a better position than ministers will also show, say, a gesture, a reduction in their salaries. He won't. For example. in the Croatian Railways where at this time you have about 400 so-called Management Contracts, as many as 120 unionists are on the manager's contract with an average salary of over 12,000 kuna. Okay, I got nothing against it, let it go on like that, let it pay the MPs down those 10%. Okay, I'd be happy to say one more time if we'd stay at that minus 10%. But I'm afraid that's not going to be the case after all. I don't scare anyone here, but at this point, it means to make a cut of minus 10 billion kuna in the Republic of Croatia's budget. Does this mean that at this time Croatia can no longer be in debt on either domestic or foreign markets, today, I dare even say capital and Europe is affecting the change of government in the Republic of Croatia far more than the opposition itself. And the question is, did the country's revenues really fail that much by over 10, maybe even 15% if we were to go down 10, 11, 12 billion kuna? You really need to ask yourself a question, is our economy breathing out, if that's the state. Then we have to ask ourselves the question of who brought us into this situation. What we know about January, January's revenues in trade were minus 13.7% and then the government doesn't let us say he's doing trade on Sundays, and soon the season, better said first Easter, etc. How much those minus 10% means, say, for the Office of the President of the State. I'm not sure I'm going to say the exact data, but here somewhere, 1.2 million kuna, for the government, it's between 4 and 5 million kuna, for the MPs, just before I counted 150 times 1500 kuna, that could be about 13, 12 to 13 million kuna. 6% in the state administration, that's between 700 and 900 million kuna. Why? Because that law would apply defacto for half a year. However, what the union must not agree to is that their foundations are reduced. Not because our base would be lower than on the simple principle that this foundation at the state administration must no longer fall. I know that the intensity that this spending side in the government budget rebalance is down by at least five to six billion kuna, that would mean that the deficit would be around 2% of the gross social product. If the deficit is greater than 2% of the gross social product then it definitely goes into a non-refundable credit rating that is already on trial, it is already mentioned that it is falling, and then it really means that the country will hardly be able to obtain loans based on which it will finance this single social consumption. So, minus 10% of the MPs by the end of the year, that means the MPs are left without another salary, but what I'm afraid of is just as much, is that the rest of this country in the public service will also be left without one pay. Just so it doesn't happen that with this 10% management minus 6%, at the end of the year, we all lose another salary or another pension. If I were to make a joke, clearly opposition solidarity, I would rather support this SDP proposal, although I understand, I'm joking, understandably, that this second bill will pass. The question is, who knows, they yell at HDZ, come on, deny me, ask me if I don't know, see if I share fate with citizens, if I got a social apartment, if I got some managerial credit, if I don't know, etc., if I've urbanized myself. Now there's something urbanized in Buzet, all the parcels around my father's plot and he's happy we have heroes at home we'll be able to drive a shadow. Wait, but what, you don't have anything to say to anyone, but it's just like that. But let's let it go now, Mr. Palaric spoke earlier, told the story of the economic crisis, talked about the European loss of business banks, jobs, etc. He said it all, it all stands. But he did not tell one great truth – who brought us into this situation in the Republic of Croatia. I claim, so replicate to me as much as you will, the HDZ government is not Mrs. Bush, but the HDZ government is, and I certainly agree with you. That's actually the point. Someone needs to be able to handle the conjecture. We'll see what the local elections will make, see if it'll be some kind of change message in the next I don't know about presidential parliamentary elections. But if something in the country needs to be changed to get better, then I say that we need to change the power that simply led us to this. Here lies the nation's primary problem. The other problem is normally our business banks who do not know where they will hang out in their boasts, and the third problem is this redistribution in the Republic of Croatia where they are taken all the time by those who are still creating and sending something else, who, I do not know, support this or that option, so I can count on certain funding from the state budget. And one more thing I want to convince you of that I spoke of several times today. Clearly, you need to save apartments absolutely, but you need to primarily save jobs. And what's that possible for? It's possible at this point only with favourable loans and that's why banks here play a crucial role, because we just don't know from trade to production, so all the way to construction is falling apart. Without this, the state is left without VAT, without jobs, the state remains without contributions as well as local self-government. One sentence if something doesn't change for all of us is just bad. Anything in everything you say? It's clear. It's about solidarity with the citizens. The IDS will solidify, however, I claim that the problem at this time of this country is not in those minus 10% or minus 6% or the next day minus 20% or 12%, but the fundamental problem of this country is who brought us to this.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29213	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. The first is Honourable Representative Boris Matkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29214	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of Cain's from this morning, who knows which time he repeats the same sentence, as the minister said he wouldn't be paid. It's his claim that I want to kill anyway, because he added it to the public sector and to the pensioners. So I'd say that my colleague Cain actually got it out of context if he followed "Open" last night, so this is all the same thing that's going on in the conversation with the unions. Namely, the minister said this applies to counterpart Cain's 6% increase, so insisting on them. So that would be true, not what you said. So you don't have to carry it the way you carry it, because you actually sow panic, not the ones you call here. But it's nothing unusual to you. It's also your mission in the opposition, but we're trying to understand that. What do we do?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29215	Thank you. And the correction of the incorrect allegations by the distinguished representative Frana Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29216	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it is incorrect that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is the cause of this crisis. It seems that colleague Cain does not have satellite television, he does not follow the media, nor does he know what is happening outside of Croatia and in the world. Comrade Cain, the crisis has started in the United States, primarily in financial institutions. The Republic of Croatia did not issue kunas from its state budget for banks, for example, as did Switzerland, from which UBS one of the world's strongest banks sought 60 billion euros to save what was being saved. We didn't even give the kuna. I can tell you that I heard that in Istria when IDS came that the financial crisis had begun. We can also talk about a colleague, Cain, but it is certainly not the same as the fact that the Republic of Croatia, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is the cause of this crisis in the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29217	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, Honorable Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29218	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, there are two draft laws in the parliamentary procedure proposing a reduction of salaries to the Prime Minister, ministers and other state officials. One is SDP, the other is Vladin. However, it is surprising that this issue has been discussed in public for several months, and the government has only just now reacted, it seems to me that it has been offered as much as public comments, as much as the SDP proposal itself. To be clear, this is what we're talking about, so the reduction of salaries to the prime minister, ministers and other state officials is not, can't be or can't be called any anti-recession measure. Because the financial effect of these maneuvers will definitely not have a significant impact on the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia. But he is at a symbolic level very important signal, because he speaks of the solidarity of those who rarely forget that their pay goes out of wages and pockets so-called. ordinary citizens. It is becoming more and more common, therefore, that the prime minister, ministers and other state officials are forgetting where their pay comes from, and so treats these people and treats them. But if they forget citizens, they won't forget. Citizens know very well when they get what the Dalmatians would say to each first or every 15th, depending on what luck they are being followed, how much money is missing on that well because it went into the pockets of the Prime Minister, the prime minister, and other state officials. I will not be ashamed of the fact that the Prime Minister, ministers and all other state officials, including you, Mr. Matusic, are actually getting paid out of funds. You're talking to me, that's the problem. Mr. Vice President, can you get in line?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29219	I can if you're having an argument and I'm asking you, it's not good that someone's money is in somebody's pocket.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29220	How is it not if we didn't get paid?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29221	Pay is one thing, and your insinuation is another.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29222	No, no, no. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29223	I ask you to conduct this debate, and all other participants here in the Assembly, MPs and MPs, to refrain from commenting from the bench. Thank you very much, let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29224	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry you don't understand the metaphor that every time we get paid, that pay goes into our pocket. I don't know where you're going with your salary.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29225	Sorry, metaphor, what you said wasn't a metaphor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29226	I've been having trouble with literary and stylish figures lately when it comes to communicating with my HDZ colleagues, but, well, I don't think that's my problem. We have been listening for two months to the reasons that the Prime Minister, which Vice-President Kosor, is impossible to access the reduction of the salaries of the Prime Minister, ministers and other state officials, including parliamentary deputies, because this area is closely bound by one regulation that does not allow for a change of base. And now, all of a sudden, it turns out that's not the case. So it's possible to do that, that there are even more technologies that can be achieved. One is proposed by the SDP, the other by the government. The SDP proposes that this be resolved by a special law in a way that determines the basis of the explicit set out in the 2008 law, which means that Parliament would then, at its meeting each year or every other year, or more often or less, establish an explicit basis for all state officials. The government is proposing something else. It therefore proposes to separate the wage system from public officials, so it acknowledges that it is possible, but suggests that the future decision on how much will be the basis. So two things here are very important. The first is that it is not about any anti-recession measure, but about the obligation of every public official to realize that his salary goes out of citizens' salaries and that it is about solidarity which is a moral category in this case and our moral obligation, but we must not agree to the demagogue that we actually share the fate of the people. So you can't share the fate of a people who have 4 or 5 thousand kunas from a position when you're 15 or 18, it's not sharing the fate of a people, it's simply solidarity because speaking in terms of the Turopoly frameworks, it doesn't matter when this practice is applied to a school teacher in Vukovar and the finance minister. And secondly, this is the principle of separating pears from apples, separating public officials from public officials, and that it is established by regulations in a way that will not make us hostages, or political games, or individual public debates that are sometimes launched to disabling in that basket all the eggs, and not just rot. So HNS will support these two principles, hence the absolute solidarity of all state officials, primarily prime ministers, and all of us, and also the separation of these two systems, although the government has been claiming for months that this is not possible. Now, now we see that the government sometimes makes mistakes, believe it or not, sometimes it's in error and for months it believes one thing, then it comes to other knowledge, but let's just say it's a positive trend. It would be a bad trend if it were different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29227	Thank you. And we have 3 corrections of the incorrect quote. The first is Honorable Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29228	Just for the sake of the public, I'm correcting an incorrect assumption because otherwise it's unnecessary to correct a colleague. But says a colleague, the government has done nothing so far, this is the first move of the government to make in terms of anti-recession measures. So I'm just going to repeat one fact that's extremely important, about banks, about trust in banks. It is the government's move to increase the secured part that the state guarantees in banks from 100,000 to 400,000 kunas has strengthened the confidence of Croatian citizens in Croatian banks and thus did not happen what happened in some other countries as a crisis generator, and as a crisis generator, as one of the crisis generators.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29229	Thank you. The second correction to the incorrect allegations is the distinguished representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29230	Mr. Vice President, I am also correcting the incorrect allegations of Mr. MPs in the section where he says the prime minister forgets where the money for his salary comes from, so he supported it with a completely inappropriate description that the money for the prime minister's salary was taken from the well, as he called it, those who receive a small salary and that the pay goes from citizens' salaries. The pay comes from the taxation of citizens, this was pure demagogy and manipulation of language figures and metaphors, as you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29231	Thank you. And the correction of an incorrect quote, they wouldn't believe it, Damir Cain. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29232	Okay, here's what you might not believe now. I don't think it's like paying a prime minister who at this point is about 23 thousand kunas big pay. This is equivalent to 3,000 euros and higher than anyone who holds a position higher than the job position, engagements, etc., it is not a large salary. I don't think it's a big salary or a minister who makes 2,500, 2,700 euros. Are we on the other hand obliged to solidarity with citizens? Yeah. Do we share the fate of the people? That's why I want to replicate, or correct the wrong quote. And yes and no. It's not the same gentlemen if someone, say, got an apartment of 100 square meters there in '92. And bought it for 7.8,000 euros or you didn't get anything. I'm saying whoever got lucky and got that social apartment back in '92. The year and bought it for 8 or 9 thousand euros or then marks, it's far more than that and it's in a far better position, even if it had 6.7 thousand kuna than the one sitting in this House for 16 or 17 thousand kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29233	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29234	But that we have a duty to solidarity, we have, but then maybe in these categories we should say something just as clearly. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29235	Thank you, Your Honor, it takes two minutes to correct the incorrect allegations. It only takes two minutes. In one minute, then yes. On behalf of the SDP club, Honorable representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go. Mršić, your Honor, you have a word on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29236	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Indeed, today's wage reduction debate has more political character and character whether we really understand what the situation is with citizens, are we ready to look at what is currently happening in Croatia, what is the situation on payment and non-payment in Croatia, what is the state of employment or unemployment. We're here today talking about whether or not we're going to cut wages to 6 or 10% of government officials. But today, again in Croatia today, an extremely large number of citizens do not receive salaries, because their employers, even though they would like to pay their salary for it, do not have the opportunity. They don't have the option because a large non-proliferation cycle has been restarted and the non-proliferation cycle has been launched because, above all, the state does not fulfil its obligations. About a month ago, Croatia's roads and Croatian highways owed 80m euros each at the Zagreb Bank's loan. In this way, the total capacity of the credit potential that Zagrebačka Banka has for entrepreneurship has almost exhausted today, everyone, today. ... You've got plates that say "correction of an incorrect quote." [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Also today, when an entrepreneur addresses Zagrebačka banka to get a loan for current liquidity in Zagrebačka banka, they tell him he can't get in line until July 1st. So he can't pay his salary today because, for example, the state owes him, even if he wants to have the works done, he's got the invoices out, he paid the state's value added tax, but he can't pay his salary because the state hasn't paid him. Address the bank to obtain credit, however, it cannot get a credit either because the state or some of the state-owned enterprises have taken the money that would take the private company to pay the salary. What's going on now? Workers remain without their salary, local self-government is left without its taxes because the state is wise to charge VAT, the state does not give up its VAT, she said VAT is paid by the invoice. But income tax is charged according to paid salary, and when paid the state is not paid then it does not say that instead of unpaid salaries, it will pay income tax in local self-government but must wait for the salary to be charged. So today we're talking here between 6 and 10%. It's too small for both of us if we have a situation that really people have done their entire working month and they can't make it today, I can't get paid. Today it is very little and immoral of us to bid on whether it is 6, is it 10% because everything is too long until we are able as representatives and parliament and the Government as the executive body or most responsible for managing this country to ensure the collection of claims in the Republic of Croatia. And to me, so long as the prime minister and ministers and, above all, the finance minister do not ensure that bills in Croatia are paid within 60 days should not be paid at all. When he makes sure that the cash flow in Croatia is the way it should be so that employers can function, so that taxes can be paid, so that wages, taxes and contributions can be paid, only then did the finance minister earn the salary, only then did the prime minister earn the salary. The prime minister did not deserve salary if he pays the state administration this month for more than ten days. They say they've been late paying MPs. We'll figure it out. We've got a lot of pay. But this month's salary was ten days late for people who work in the kitchen, drivers, people who war on the port here, secretaries, many other people who work here in the Parliament. She was late for school teachers' pay, she was late for nurses' and doctors' pay, she was late for railways. All of them were ten days behind. In the morning, we discussed the need to postpone that loan payment because someone had lost their job. Has anyone considered at the Ministry of Finance or in the Government how much our citizens to whom she has been late paying the users of the state budget are going to pay a tight interest because they couldn't pay the annuity because they were ten days late. Who's responsible for that? Did he get paid? Did he deserve a salary? Whether the finance minister and the prime minister earned their salary at a time when they did not ensure that salaries were paid regularly and on time. They did not ensure that the salaries were paid to a large number of users of the state budget and therefore, I repeat, it is not just about the state administration, it is about a large number of people who receive salaries from the state budget. These people couldn't pay for the loan, those people couldn't pay for the utility, those people couldn't buy something for themselves, for their family, couldn't pay for the kindergarten. Can't you see what cycle of indifference was launched in the Republic of Croatia? What cycle of indifference is it if for each other or every third employee in Croatia he pays ten days late? And the minister says he'd only cut 10% of his salary. So why does he even receive a salary if what he is for is to ensure stable incomes to the state and pay the wages he does not provide in Croatia. Therefore, I really think that the debate should turn to the story of whether we are able to secure for any pay what citizens expect of us, and that is, above all, that the state is doing its duties properly and in time. Because if the state does not perform properly and in time of its obligations, then everyone else will be late with all their obligations and then these big problems that we currently have in Croatia and in payment and in any other transport, and above all we have a problem with citizens. I am convinced that a third of those who have been fired today have been fired or whose job has disappeared and because they are not employers or employers of their employers have a problem with their business with the state. And then the ministry, or the HDZ presidency, bids and says it's not enough 6% that the HDZ suggested, and here we're going to cut our salary 10%. So instead of receiving 21, we will receive 19 and 500 and today, several dozen in Croatia have already lost their jobs since this morning. and we return to the story of even paying wages in Croatia, is it true or incorrect that the Minister of Finance said that the good news in Croatia is when you say that the pay is late, and that the bad news is when you say that the pay will not be at all. That's not far from the truth. Because already today in this assembly, it was said how much the total payment of salaries from the state budget was made. For this month, it was the release of vault records at a price of 7.75% and at a discount of 4%. Something's been issued for six months, something's been issued for a year, which means that it costs taxpayers somewhere between 12 and 14%. And today we are having a debate on whether a collective contract should be cancelled and whether the salaries of state budget users should be reduced by 6%. Even when it is reduced, and the fact that the government will go on unilaterally cancelling the collective agreement and when the pay is cut by 6%, the problem of the finance minister will again be to find these remaining 94% of the salary for paying the users of the state budget. And on those 94%, the finance minister will pay more than 10% of a year's interest to pay for it. And instead of ensuring the normal functioning of the cash flow in Croatia and spending on the interest that we pay to get the money for the payout, we are now asking to again save on people who do their job fairly, and it will not matter to us at all at what price or will be important to us but since the credit rating on domestic payments has fallen in kunas, so it will be even more expensive and expensive. We will therefore give a lot more for you for interest and for contributions on these loans than for the cost of credit than it actually is for the increase. Today, more expensive money is for the salaries of ministers, prime ministers, presidents, parliamentary representatives, users of the state budget, than is one of these proposals for wage cuts. And when we cut our salaries, it will be even more expensive for the state budget and for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia than to pay for our salaries, to collect and then pay the wages from the current income of the state budget. And instead of breaking the spear and wasting time on whether it's 6 or 10%, we should counter all our potentials to see how, to create a new value how to increase the revenues of state, city, municipal and county budgets and not to be in a situation where we don't have to borrow. Because it's not a problem, you know, and when you come to an ordinary citizen and you say the problem is 10 thousand kuna, it's a huge problem for him. When you say that with 100,000 kunas is a problem, it's already something terribly big. When you tell him that the problem is 100 million kuna, he can't even perceive it. And today, the problem of the state budget is 10.5, 11 billion. So we're not talking about something that can even be seen, which is possible at this point in time. And today we are discussing whether 6 or 10, instead of getting to the bottom of all our potentials and finally having a Croatian assembly discussing what is important, which is therefore the plan to get out of this crisis. But the Croatian Parliament is probably one Parliament in Europe that has not discussed it. And who only discussed the opposition proposals to get out of the crisis, because until today the government has not sent a single proposal to the Croatian Parliament on an excessive proposal, not a single proposal, because this is not about the reduction of wages, it's not about the Anatresian law, it's about one of those laws. She didn't send any laws, no suggestions on how to get out of this crisis. Yeah, if we tell the citizens anything else, okay? It's hard, but if we do that too, then we have a chance to get out of this crisis and then we guarantee that in six months, in a year, in two years, we'll be much better. Unfortunately, we only have a debate on opposition laws, we have only a debate on the HDZ presidency's proposal whether 6% is enough to cut salaries or not, whether it is necessary to cut wages 10%. But first of all, I think that the government and the ministers in the morning see if they've earned any wages at all, at what point and at what amount they have the right to pay at all. Of course the SDP club will support and is ready to discuss and agree on the amount of wage cuts, but we are above and above all and above all to see how to get the state out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29237	Thank you. And we have two corrections of incorrect allegations. He is the first respected representative, Nedjeljko Strikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29238	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a correct quote from the distinguished representative Mršić who, as usual, deceives the public, and that's a few times and I've been saying for almost five minutes that the salaries were 10 days late in, so he tells doctors and nurses. Well, I have to say, if the salary bill is paid by 15. All clinics in Croatia received a salary of 16 because it was 15 Sundays, and county hospitals 17. If it's 10 days, then really math is not good. If you're in your town only taking care of your salaries, then you've probably paid off the first one. Those who behave responsibly could see that in a year, the long hospital did not increase a single lip, but was reduced by a billion kuna. So you keep accounts rationally, but you pay the wages on time. You can't say she's 10 days late. It's a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29239	Thank you. And a second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29240	Well, dear fellow Mršić is the real truth that the collective contract was signed when the gross social product grew almost 6% and it was logical that the public sector wages in civil servants and subsistences grew 6% When the decline is forecasted and even minus 2% then there is no country in the world that would trouble the growth of wages 6% and that is also recorded in that collective contract when and when wages can be raised in the public sector. So it would be very good to say that you in your town of Koprivnica share the solidarity of your salaries as mayor and these, to see how much you've aligned your incomes with the social sensitivity of those who fill and your budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29241	Thank you. It's no longer a correction. Thank you very much, thank you very much. We have one notice, which is that a session of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development will be held tomorrow on March 19th at 8:30 at the Eugen Quaternika Hall, second floor, room 233. And one request to the MPs and the MPs. So far, I have not warned about not sticking to the subject, or agenda, so I would ask you to stick to the topic that is on the agenda in your discussions. Thank you very much for understanding. And now it's on behalf of the HDSSB's Club of Representatives, the esteemed representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29242	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, fellow MPs and fellow MPs. At some point or in the first wave, this debate seems to me like that debate the other day when we discussed reducing the toll for motorcycles and motorcycles, that's right. The SDP proposed a 50% reduction then and HDZ to be 60% of the current price. And then we also argued similarly in this way and actually the core of the problem wasn't that 6 or 10% as my previous speaker said before me, but it was quite something else. Same for these motorcycles, 50 or 60% reduction. Well, I personally was a state-run deputy, I worked at the hospital as a surgeon, and then I became a state official, as a parliamentary representative. There we may have lost a little thanks to ourselves, but also by the actions of some others, and a lot of the media, say doctors or doctors themselves are guilty of falling reputations, of losing dignity, and we are reduced to one by saying to a group, this kind of unwanted, especially when the media on the cover is writing murderers in white or something. It's a similar media hack and the same drop in dignity in this other business of mine. We are witnessing a media ring against the Parliament and parliamentary deputies, starting at the height of the salary, and then the ignorance in terms of card possession. And then that famous parking and parking lot as if no one had a free parking lot from journalists and further ahead of Croatian TV, then from a lot of lunches, etc., which they don't have as parliamentary representatives. And there's Parliament's dignity, too, and the parliamentary deputies are also in one downfall. We are also witnesses to this, or I am a witness to both, that on both jobs as a civil servant and as a state official, it applies to me... All specialists, regardless of the weight of the job and the conditions of the job, etc., generally have the same salary here in the Parliament as well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether someone's been in a year and three months as long as the Parliament's been established two months three times here, half an hour or every day here, how active in this is nobody measuring. How much it contributes to the parliamentary debates and all that makes the growth of the parliamentary representative. So by what standards, I don't know. That's how it was when I was a state deputy. This state deputy or doctor he had as a beginner a salary twice as much as a beginner judge in a municipal court. My colleagues know. We're talking about government officials' salaries here right now. No one's saying how many local officials there are, say about 10 grand he doesn't mention. There's an official... who have a higher salary than the vice president and president of the Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Are they just gonna save the state or are they gonna save the locals, or are they part of the state? Are they part of this country? Are they completely isolated? Insensitive? I don't plead that because I'm touched especially by this reduction planned, either six or ten percent. We know we should do more. And if I had to, and if I knew that giving up the entire salary would fix the situation in the state, they'd give it up. We gave up a lot in '91. Years and '92. When it was supposed to be, it's not a big deal either. But I'd like to know, and I have a mistrust, and I have to say, I also have because of a large number of untrustworthy statements and actions taken by the government where these savings will go, in which direction, who has the savings. If we're going to help change, are we going to help fight recession and crisis in the country or are we going to go back to some kind of truck or Brodosplit or don't know where I'm going. So, I'm expressing my mistrust with the availability of saved money. I don't have faith, I'd rather personally give than that 10% of any institution or anyone who needs it, to a special school. Some kind of facility to help children with developmental difficulties tormenting with resources. I'm ready to do that, I'm willing to give up and more than 10% for that kind of purpose. That is why I believe that this debate and this sort of, some kind of virtual conflict between 6% and 10% is actually irrelevant and that especially when here in the article that it proposes, which the Government is proposing just to find, that it will decide, therefore, by a special decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the basis for the calculation of salaries will be laid down. This means that the Government of the Republic of Croatia actually determines the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia at any time that it can do whatever it wants. It'll be 10, 10 later, 20. As much as he wants a percent reduction. There, I was talking about the dignity of the Croatian Parliament and parliamentary representatives, and this proposal made everything clear. Therefore, in this paragraph, it states, starting with that of the law, etc. the salaries of government officials shall be determined by a special decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And you see, when a collective contract was concluded, that is, when a collective contract was signed before the new year, about how all civil servants, tenants, officials would have a 6% salary increase, I was very surprised by it. I was very surprised especially by the unions, because watching 6% of the salary of £30,000 is 1800. 6% on a salary of 5000 kn or 4000, let's go 4 is just 240 kn. So the difference in material incomes, in wages is actually growing. It grows in favour of those who have a higher coefficient and the union has agreed to it and signed such a contract. The government has agreed to this, and here we go, as you would say in Zürick, so the termination of that contract is most likely unilaterally by the government and 6% is deleted. Eat the cat, it's gone! I point out once again how she signed that contract at all I say if you take the coefficients and that amount of linear amount in percent of 6%, then I say the salary of about 20,000 kuna is an increase of 1200, and by 4,000 kuna only 240 kn, which is why we increased the gap in incomes between officials and officials. Since it didn't occur to anyone at the time, I don't know, but here's when it's really being analyzed. In any case, the HDSSB as a party responsible for both its voters and the Croatian people and citizens will agree to discuss and agree, in discussions on any proposal in connection with this. Because I'm saying, this is only about government officials, and here in government and union negotiations, it's been left to agree on those unfortunate 6% that were agreed on before the new year. And there's one more thing I wanted to say, that someone here was saying that, I think Cain, that parliamentary representatives really shouldn't be members of the boards of directors, or they could be but without reward and without compensation. So their only activity is working in the Parliament and that pay. True God, is not small in relation to or is not small in relation to others in the country of Croatia. But we have to say here that many government officials, especially from the executive or mainly from the executive, have prizes or fees in the supervisory boards, in the boards and in a number of other places, so that we should also look at it from that point of view. Furthermore, we are talking about institutions from, therefore, owned by the state, so Croatian electricity, Croatian water economy, Croatian forests, Croatian railways. Is it really possible that even management teams in these state institutions have significantly different salaries? So, importantly different I don't know the coefficients or what or what all have management contracts. And who has allowed it in the first place from members of the government and MPs, and it's about tens of thousands of kunas. Here, I don't mind that, not only that nothing but I'm in, to do as we agreed. So the reduction in salaries to government officials regardless of the amount we agree here and which one we determine. But I'm saying, let's just think that the money is not only with government officials and salaries, but also at the local level of mayors, mayors, mayors, etc. And I believe you have to trust me without speaking individually because there are mayors who have bigger salaries than the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29243	Thank you. On behalf of the Government and the legislator under the regular number of the 9th State Secretary, Honorable Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29244	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So I have to respond to the claim made that parliamentary representatives have no income other than pay, and that officials in executive pay receive various fees and in the boards of directors, it is not true. State officials shall not be entitled to compensation for membership in supervisory committees and administrative boards and shall have no compensation other than wages. And in the introduction, I immediately said there isn't, the government doesn't determine pay. The government has determined the basis as it has done since the adoption of the Law on Civil Servants in 2001 every year. If it wasn't agreed by collective agreement, then the government would have set the basis for pay. However, the government on two occasions achieved as a result of social dialogue the conclusion of long-term collective agreements and we concluded a collective contract published in the "National Journal" No. 93/08 and applicable from 31 July 2008, the four-year collective agreement concluded on which officials were guaranteed growth. So, we're talking about the time before the economic crisis when the gross social product grew at a high rate, when the state revenues grew, and we took care of civil servants and public servants, so all the users of the state budget guaranteed wage growth, and before the end of last year, by responding to the situation in public finances, asked for a change in the collective contract and started a dialogue with the social partners again. The unions did not agree then, which is why the government decided to respect the collective agreement and raise the salary 6% precisely to respect what it signed. However, since the economic situation is what it is, we continue social dialogue and expect both state and public officials to be responsible for reviewing the provisions of a collective contract concluded in other times, in other circumstances when circumstances have changed. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29245	Thank you. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29246	Mr. Secretary of State, you didn't deny what I said at all. So I would ask you specifically. And who's on the Croatian Security Supervisory Board? Parliamentarians or members of the government? Who is on the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund? Parliamentarians or members of the government? So that's what I'm talking about. There are no MPs, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29247	There's no fee, no parliamentary representative, no government member. Neither. Thank you. And on behalf of SDP's promoter, Honorable representative Zeljka Antunovic, vice president of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29248	Thank you very much. Here, after this round of debate is over on behalf of the clubs, I would like to thank you for all the debates, but also on the proposals put forward which, in a certain sense, mean the extension of this proposal. And I can indeed say on behalf of the club, i.e. on behalf of the promoters, that the gesture that I have called among other things is the gesture of safeguarding the credibility of those who decide at the political level and their solidarity with the problems of other social groups in Croatia, which we also meet, and that the economic crisis should also be applied to the levels of local authorities, at the level of those who decide on public funds, which are done at the level of municipalities, cities or counties. It's an absolute proposal that is consistent with the idea and intensity of what we've been proposing and trying to achieve. Share fate, solidify with ups and downs of those who fill, both state and local, or county budgets. What I do not wish to solidify or agree with on behalf of the promoter, which is to mix or try to mix or withdraw certain comparisons with the government's negotiations, with trade unions as social partners, we simply think that these are two completely separate areas. One is the area of decision-making on the salaries of those who earn their salaries from the budget, and the other is the negotiation of the salaries of those who are made out of the budget, but who certainly do not belong to officials, but fall within the area of the social partners' negotiations. We think that, if we are already talking about social partnership, these social partners should take care of the state of the economy and pay each other according to different criteria, but should in a certain way relate to the movement of the economy and the growth of wages in the economy. As far as our position is concerned, we remain in the presence of what is valid for officials and tenants, which is some kind of automation and comparative of this growth of wages in the economy doesn't always have to be valid for officials' salaries, and we think there should be an exception. Similarly, we cannot support and agree with the the thesis that the Government is deciding on all the officials' salaries, and so on the salaries of parliamentary representatives, but not because we think we should be vain representatives or that we should exercise our constitutional positions and rights in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but because it is simply not a good way to do so. We think that under normal conditions and normal times when we talk about standard law, these salaries should be tied to exact criteria, with no decisions by the Government or the Parliament. It's simply annoying, it causes dissatisfaction to the general public, completely unnecessary dissatisfaction. The criteria must also be clear when it comes to the salaries of officials and employees, those who make them out of the budget, but certainly we, as top-level officials, still need to show us a certain tendency and a higher level of solidarity with the situation in society.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29249	Thank you. Before we move to the debate individually, I would like to inform you that at 16, 23 hours is up for individual debate. The first in an individual debate is the honourable representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29250	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, sir, Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. When we talk about the salaries of officials, the topic is always interesting and the media are always interested in the topic because officials in this country decide how Croatia will live and what the situation will be in Croatia and are most responsible for how every day the Croatian man lives. And then when you have results at the end of the year negatively means the last quarter of economic growth, when you have results that we are 30 out of 41 countries that have been surveyed in Europe, when 44% of the surveyed households have a worse financial situation than before, and when a whole series of economic indicators talk about living worse in Croatia than it was a year earlier, normally causes at least discomfort when at the end of the 1st month, at the beginning of the 2nd month, the public realizes that, with the increase in the salaries of civil servants, 6% went up the salaries and government officials as if it were identical and that at the end of the union when he negotiated with the government about civil servants, as if he had thought about government officials. And of course, those salaries were raised on average by state officials by a thousand kuna and by those who work in the state service perhaps 200,300 kuna. And, of course, it causes one discomfort, one feeling of injustice that normally bothers those officers. What I would say and it is good that this debate is united, but in the end, the SDP and SDP Representatives Club also referred to the procedure of a law that would actuate the 1st month increase this year, and it is good that the government of the Republic of Croatia reacted on the basis of that law, noting which injustice was done. And why are they most often mentioned also advocates like those who, lo and behold, get high wages and don't work too hard. I think that's part of the reason why they're pulling the position of this home. We gentlemen should ask ourselves as representatives of the Croatian Parliament whether this has contributed to the situation when we pass one law, such as the Law on Trade in the 7th month, and then a month later during the annual vacations along with the constructions and the black wine from the yacht, this law is changed on the phone, a regulation being put outside the power of the provision of that law and then legitimate citizens of the Republic of Croatia are wondering whether our salaries are too high when those laws that bring this home are able to change in a month's telephone session of the Government. And normally, from the position in which this Assembly is today, citizens are pulling parallels and saying that these salaries may not have been earned. In this regard, what I have set out from several examples, or one example that I have set, and there have been more and more of them, I will say that they are not far from the truth, or that this House should have greater powers and responsibility and not that the laws adopted in this House are changed by government regulations at telephone sessions. Perhaps then Croatian citizens would think differently and perhaps then that work would be treated differently. On the other hand, it absolutely does not contribute to this and what we presented here at the debate and on the round table that was dedicated to this subject, and when data is shown that are not such and contributes worse let's say so to the public about these salaries as if this home too wanted to display information that is not real or that is not standing and compose with other representatives in Europe. What someone mentioned earlier and the question is whether or not we are even state officials who are planning the budget when, I don't know, someone mentioned Minister Shuker, three months after doing the original budget and doing the rebalancing, whether it is essentially a quality job and whether someone can ask if such a salary is earned. I think so. However, Minister Shuker and all officials in the government of the Republic of Croatia and in parliament are going to the elections. And finally, the citizens name them in those places, and by that logic they deserve those places and the wages they make. On the other hand, what I think might be unfairly done by this law, which is that there are a whole series of officials who will now have less salaries in the ministries than they have as directors of the administration. I think that should be taken into account because there is still a pay gap at the level of responsibility between civil servants and management directors. And in the end, I will say very little about what is said or spoken about once a year when state companies submit reports, which is paid in public service, or not in public service, but in companies owned by the state where wages and bonuses are made, someone talked about it just as quickly as they were in millions of dollars, and these people also came to these state companies not through public tenders but through the political will of the majority and most often their work is very difficult to measure because how to measure the work of a director of a state-owned company who loses a share in the insurance market from year to year and he has a large salary and large bonuses and nothing changes from year to year. Or, how to valorize those companies that are at a loss and their directors make twice as much pay as the President of the Republic of Croatia does. I think that the same state should deal with and more realistically determine according to these salaries or place those places on the market or that, through public tenders, really professionals appear, that they are then adequately paid. What I'm going to say here is absolutely necessary for state officials to show that this year that is going to be difficult for Croatian citizens and when we talk about 30,000 people who lost their jobs in the first two months of this year normally has to show that government officials have a certain part of solidarity or that in that year they can't grow wages and that they have to have a say and a sense of responsibility if things don't go the way they're supposed to go in the country. I agree that, now, the question is whether it is 6 or 10% not crucial but a dose of responsibility and a dose of solidarity in this crisis year must exist and therefore I support going in that direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29251	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29252	Well, colleague Maras, you said it turned out to be the unions negotiating this 6% increase in the salaries of parliamentary deputies, state officials. They're not. But, you know, wages are accounted for because the pay base has increased by that, and it has automatically increased salaries and state officials and parliamentary deputies. So they're not unions about it, they're discussing what's about their collective contract. But otherwise, I think it would be good to make one analysis of salaries by local self-government units, even by companies owned by these units of local self-government, and even by state-owned companies, and then to talk fully about the problem of pay in Croatia. This is just for me now one populist measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29253	Thank you. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičevi Marinović. She's not losing her right to debate. And it is up to the distinguished representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29254	Well, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's what I'm holding, like the rest of my partners before me, that all of us who are here, and the other officials have one unique goal, and that's finding a way out of a crisis that certainly none of us can deny and not see around us. However, at first I would like to say that I will support whether this proposal is the government's intention to proceed with an emergency procedure for one reason, because I believe that the government and union agreement will also be of pleasure to both sides, but by this we will certainly try to resolve the crisis as soon as possible. However, they cannot agree with those who say the government is not responsible. I claim that the government is responsible for policymaking, the government has carried out an analysis of one overall state and it is certain that this proposal is also a measure that goes in the direction in which we all really agree and that we need to support. What is important is that the government has launched negotiations with the unions and for one reason only, and that is to keep the salaries at the same level as they were in 2008. The previous finding on whether this 6% increase occurred clearly that the government had to honour the previously signed contracts. Clearly, the team must have made it clear, considering now the overall situation and the analysis, therefore, and the measures that some things will have to change compared to the time when the 6% contract was signed. Why am I saying that? So it's clear to all of us and the known crisis is of world scale, we can't stop it at our borders, it's there and it's especially present when it comes to exports and exporters. This also leads to what we all know, which is that this problem has created a problem with the disappearance of a part of the job, and the disappearance of a part of those jobs is the category of people who are actually struggling to keep their jobs. Accordingly, officials and civil servants and tenants should share the fate of all. So I think that's what we'll all definitely support, especially those who are currently struggling to keep their jobs. What I also want to say is that the government has launched austerity measures at all levels. However, it is clear that it is not enough and it should in any case be encouraged and we will certainly support it in this Vishko home. Now, this difference between the SDP proposal of 6% and the Government's proposal whether the division of the basics of officials on one side, i.e. the substitute and officials on the other side, is what we will wait for, but in any case, the sooner we have ahead of us it is clear that we will solve the problem sooner. I also support a proposal here that could be heard in part, which is not only for officials to share the fate of all people, but also for officials at the top of the state, but for all who are on various units of local self-government and mayors, and for the mayors, and for the mayors and all the departments to share the fate of all. And that's what we can say as a kind of solidarity, or call it equalizing all of us. Certainly, those who follow can see that there are already units of local self-government going in that direction, which support the rebalancing of their budgets of measures that the government has as a clear policy-making body has also passed on to local self-government units, and I think local self-government is going in that direction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29255	Thank you. And now it's the honourable representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29256	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I was away for half an hour because I attended a session of the National Committee, and I hope I won't repeat something that has already been said, but I would immediately move on to both bill proposals and be very specific. I would talk less about solidarity and more about the solid elements of the foundation that should make these decisions. First of all, I agree with you that I have no objection to the separation of clear bases for officials and subsistences in relation to state officials, but I do not agree with your proposal in two elements. First of all, the lack of regulation is when the basis of state officials is regulated by law, that every year we will have to clearly amend that law and that we will deal with ourselves in the House, not with the big problems that affect this society and our citizens, therefore this is one of the shortcomings. The second flaw I see in your proposal is that you suggest that the base be the same this year as last year. If we have economic growth this year that's negative, then I don't agree that we can stay on the ground from last year. So it's something I don't think I could accept, and for that reason, I don't agree with that proposal. We hear from HDZ that after a 6% increase, we're proposed to go down and hear 10%. My colleagues from HSS are even though I don't have their proposal on the table here, but they said they were after a 6% increase we go down 15% so different options. What bothers me in these options is my next colleagues and colleagues. None of us are talking about factors, clear elements, principles that should come to this base. I am not sorry, because I was absent from Croatia and attended the round table that you had a week ago, 10 days ago, when talking about the salaries of parliamentary representatives and when these salaries were slightly unscathed, awkwardly and inadequately combined with salaries in neighbouring countries. We have seen how this story ended and the reason is that we did not again stick to some key way of arguing our wishes, desires, and suggestions. Look, if the gross social product in one Denmark is seven times bigger than in Croatia, I'm talking by heart now and their salaries are four times bigger than ours, then something's wrong. Let me get this straight. So that's one parameter. So, gross social product per capita, their pay for parliamentarians, our salary. Another option, we can tie them to success, our success in resolving the external trade balance. If our exports are bigger than our imports we go up with pay, if our imports are bigger than our exports we go down with pay. Parameter two. We can tie our salaries to a reduction in the number of unemployed. Third option. Fourth option. We can tie our salaries to the success of fighting corruption and crime. Fourth option. We can tie them to an increase in our competitiveness. At this point, we're 78 or 80, are we in 80th place? We didn't. On 20th, 25th place we are on this little planet of ours. So that's another possibility. We can also combine the many suggestions we have. Here, I'm just saying five, six. I'm afraid if we combined all these suggestions so that it might happen that we would have to pay taxpayers to sit in these benches and not get paid. Let's be realistic. So it bothers me never to talk about whether we deserve the pay we get. That's what's important to say. Do we really deserve those wages? We're always unconstitutional, here's the proturecesian measure we claim. Well, colleagues and colleagues, I'm going to tell you, with measures like this and with this kind of work last week and this week what's going to happen to us? In a year, two or three, those who are in the recession today are going to get out of recession and we're going to do this kind of work with measures like this, you know where to be? We're going to be in one directory that has 7 letters in the location of the plural. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29257	Thank you. And now it's time for the honourable representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29258	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The first thing I'm saying is that this bill of law is neither of them, and the SDP has made it clear that it is not an anti-crisis measure. Because the savings or cash effect of applying one or another bill is not in that amount so that they can call it the law of the anti-recession proposal package. One law and another is, in fact, a message, a political position, whether government officials in the country must or must not bear part of the consequences of the crisis in which the state was found to have or do not have the moral right to raise their salaries in times when there is uncertainty in the economy and apparently according to Shucker's statements not only in the economy but in the public sector, whether wages will be paid at all. It's a question of whether a man, an individual, has or does not have a political position in this matter. Just as it is a matter of political stance, and it must be recalled when it comes to civil servants, Mr. Secretary Palaric should remember, in 2006, they then negotiated, should exercise the right to raise salaries by 18%. But as recognizable negotiators knew that in one year, the state couldn't handle it and signed an agreement to settle it or pay it in several years, specifically for 2009, there was a 6% salary growth contracted. If they had then insisted and exercised the right to increase the basis of 18% of this agreement would not have been but would have been held on the level of the basis for this year by negotiations from a zero position and that is the only and true truth that should always be repeated in the context of not sending the wrong message to the public. It is also a matter of political stance that the salaries of government officials and those individual paid salaries cannot and must not be a secret information which unfortunately is in Croatia and which is best illustrated by a journalist when he received data from the Slovenian Parliament within 10 minutes for all officials in the state's parliament. In the euro, it's written as much as anyone has received. What I am interested in and in the reasoning of the law, the Government did not write, so I ask, perhaps Mr Palaric knows how many Croatia has at the moment? So how many people under this law today have the status of state officials. I expected the government to present this information in the light of its proposal. This information is nowhere to be found, so I ask if the Parliament can get the data from today how many Croatian officials there are. Furthermore, the draft law denied the 26-fold repeated statement by the Deputy Prime Minister, Ms. Kosor, that the salaries or the means of determining the salaries of government officials cannot be separated from the basis for civil servants because they are in the package. Which, of course, was never true because it was two completely different laws, two completely different approaches, and the government was aware of the economic situation until the meeting of the first day of the Parliament's session in January was able to establish that for state officials from 1.1.2009, the founding party remained at the level of last year. If the government accidentally did not want to apply its constitutional right and regulation to regulate it, it could have proposed a law to be discussed on the first day of the beginning of the session in the month of January, then adopted it and it would have been applied already for January. But what the government has now done, so it has denied its vice president's statement and found that there is a formal legal way to establish the pay base of state officials to be separated from civil servants. Those who don't know, I'll remind them it's '98. the salary system was arranged so that the Assembly determined by a special decision the height of the President of the Republic's salary and that all other officials had a prescribed percentage of the presidential salary. I end you in '98. The system is changing a little, and then the parliament made a decision at the salary of the president of the state, the President of the Parliament and the Prime Minister, and for the rest of the state officials, it remained a certain percentage of the salary of the president of the state. In 2000, for the first time, a model of the base times the coefficient was introduced, with the basis being the average monthly salary paid in the Republic of Croatia. In 2002, the basis was established which was established for both civil servants and subsistences and at the request of the union. In this regard, the trade unions in 2002 advocated that the basis applicable to them must also be the basis for state officials in order to monitor the movement of these foundations both and the other and there would be no privileged position. If it were possible to intervene earlier... 59 2001, 114. In 2001, and these are all regulations or amendments to the law when, during that government, on three occasions, the basis for officials' salaries was reduced or left at a level earlier last year precisely for similar reasons as it has now happened. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] So three times so far, not so long ago, the government reacted before the budget year, once by regulation, and twice the basis for state officials once reduced by 7%, and twice used the term remains at the level of last year. Already seen, knownly, applied, for two and a half months in Croatia to say it is not possible. If the exact information presented in this assembly today, and Secretary of State Maric of Finance did not react that the state is monthly in debt for the amount of salary paid at the cost of about 10%. So if this data is correct, then the 10% base reduction in the total effect will be zero. So there won't be a reduction in the amount of money, because the cost of debt is about what it is and the announced reduction, because at this point we don't know how the government is going to make a decision. And I'll finish the next one. How is it that the government has not yet found a solution to how to solve the problem of paying the manager in public, state-owned enterprises? How come the government didn't find a solution formally legal for their contracts and bonuses? And in particular, how can I ask all my colleagues and colleagues to say that Croatia's electricity industry is 100% property of the state achieves losses that grow from month to month in the greatest need of savings and continues to sponsor sports clubs? What's this fight against a crisis where the government allows a state-run company that's stuck in a lot of losses to sponsor sports clubs, and we're here today discussing that we need to save every kuna? How come no one remembered that the government had powers, but also the obligation to intervene and say Mr. Antak can no longer finance sports clubs. You must no longer have a bonus contract or in the event of a change of 100,000 kuna severance. You see when such moves are also withdrawn then it is a question of credibility, such as the question of credibility that the Croatian Parliament or any name of the Croatian Parliament publicly does not provide incorrect information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29259	Thank you. Time. And we have a distinguished representative, Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29260	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I hope you won't have to reassemble the Committee on Gender Equality or any other committee. For this difficult situation in society, I think we all have to be aware, it's not George Bush, it's not Vladimir Putin, it's not Angela Merkel, and it's not Sarkozy who was waiting for the Prime Minister for almost three days until he probably had coffee with his lady to support him. The state of the country is solely guilty of this irresponsible government, and I would dare say that by the government of Ivo Sanader, not HDZ, because very little he asks and the parliamentary representatives of the HDZ, as well as only the HDZ presidency of the laws and what kind.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29261	Your Honour, please. I asked us to stick to the subject. Stick to the subject that's ahead of you, because we're not gonna cause any trouble.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29262	It's the subject of officials' wages. In order to talk about my official salary, I need to create an introduction to the state of this country run by Ivo Sanader. I think, Mr. Vice President, you have to keep that in mind. If you don't understand, I'm trying to explain it to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29263	No, I don't. You don't have to explain, you just stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29264	I'm sticking to the subject, and I'd like to ask you not to interrupt me. You have a Rules of Procedure, so you can read it yourself. For a long time, this same government has assured the Croatian public that Croatia is not in a crisis, that this global crisis will pass us by, that we have not even touched that crisis from the Prime Minister to the Minister of Finance who, unfortunately, every month not only for these officials' salaries, but also for the salaries of all officials and tenants must rob the bank thresholds and these banks that are no longer owned by the Croatian state, but also owned by foreigners. Although we have two Croatian banks, the government does not operate, neither the state nor the ministry operates through these Croatian banks. On the other hand, we were convinced that this budget as a ship sailing would survive on that high seas, that it would not change. When here very soon, I guess after talking to the world's experts, finally the Prime Minister, or Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, saw not wanting to violate the usual standard of conduct in the Parliament, say that we are not in that thing but that we are in a banana, as the Prime Minister said. It finally came down to the fact that there is a government that has admitted that the whole of Croatia, unfortunately I would be glad that the government is in crisis but not the Croatian people, but that the whole of Croatia is an entire economy in one deep crisis. However, all this time, the same government did not find time to show itself about SDP proposals that were in the previous session of the parliament, obviously and thus acknowledging that these were good proposals. Here we are today in this way, making a proposal that is almost identical to the SDPs. It covers everything I've said, and it's definitely 16.1.2009. Unfortunately, there is no Honorable Deputy Prime Minister here, and I do not want to offend her as a woman, but she is indeed the 161th and then on that current watch, as well as the entire government as it is today, has shown that they are indeed demagogues and hypocrites. She said, among other things, that who would talk about something rather than SDP about social sensitivity when she commented on the SDP president's and the SDP's call to exclude officials' salaries in the government, the Parliament and the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia from the growth of official salaries. So that was 16.1. It's 18.3 today. Even the vice-presidents of the government who then declared that the entire system would collapse and that it was impossible to separate the salaries of officials from the salaries of the tenants, and even so said in her famous address to the public, that the same government had consulted experts on the possibility of freezing ministerial salaries. But she was told that this law must not be applied selectively. I don't know, it's probably the government has now invented other experts who have been here these few days, or a few months when they finally realized that not only Croatia but also that government itself has come to the edge of the break-in and that no matter what the sign and slogan says, "Let's move on" that they just can't go forward anymore, because forwards can't be done in such a way, when they finally realized that everything we said two or three months ago that was going to happen in Croatia and that they weren't any pessimistic, catastrophic depictions of Croatia, that it really is happening. Unfortunately, the government today has no anti-recession programme, since all these savings announcements in different ministries will not be enough because there is now almost 10 billion kuna missing in this three months in the state budget compared to last year. And if such a trend continues, it will be necessary to cut the budget not by a billion and a half or seven, eight billion, but by nearly 40 billion kuna. For this kind of policy-making in the economy, when a company or a company is run, when this company is brought into huge debt, into new responsibilities, and ultimately bankruptcy is the responsibility of management, i.e. directors. And that administration and that director have to leave before long. Such a case will also be with our government and if there is any, they have political wisdom and intelligence already today, given that they have done nothing, and this is confirmed by the Croatian Employers' Association and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, and indeed most citizens have to resign. Because in a time like this, Croatia is leading and accusing it of only the global economic crisis is absolutely not good or political or human. Otherwise, I support this pay cut. I think it should have come a long way earlier, but there was someone who was a demagogue and hypocrite, and someone today showed who was really a demagogue and hypocrite.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29265	Thank you. We'll see in a few days! Dear Representative Petar Mlinarić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29266	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will correct only one of a series of incorrect allegations. That Ivo Sanader himself runs the government is not exactly not to ask anyone. Ivo Sanader works teamwork with, runs the government with all the members of the government, and you take Mr. Representative's recipe from Ivo Sanader and today you'd be mayor of Đakova. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29267	Thank you. And the correction of an incorrect quote by the esteemed representative of Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29268	Thank you very much. A respected colleague, along with a number of incorrect allegations, said: “This recession is not the fault of the Government of America, France, and he has listed a dozen countries,” I quote “only the Government of the Republic of Croatia.” It is simply not true. A colleague obviously doesn't follow up on the world's economic scene. The economic crisis has started in America, moved to Europe and has hit deep countries, fortunately not yet the Republic of Croatia as neighbouring countries. The second thing he said incorrectly was that the government was always saying there was no recession. That's right, she's gone. The economic definitions know what recession is, what is depression. This isn't a recession yet by definition. But if it will be, we've still brought anti-recession measures. And the third says, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not have any anti-recession programme, and therefore there is a deeper crisis in all neighbouring countries than Hungary. Why is the devaluation of the Czech crown 20%, why is the salary cut to state officials 30% in Hungary, if this government has not taken anti-recession measures? The results of these measures are clearly visible?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29269	Thank you. Would the proposing representatives like to take the floor? No, I don't. Government official, yes. Dear Antun Palaric, State Secretary of the Central State Administration Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29270	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a Croatian crisis, nor is this just an economic crisis, this has started as an energy crisis, we have paid fuel prices, Croatia has overcome it. This started, then continued as a financial crisis, went bankrupt by banks, went bankrupt around the world by insurance companies, fell currencies, Croatia endured all of this. Neither the kuna slipped, nor the interest grew, nor any bank or financial institution failed. There has been a major problem in the real sector, Croatia is supporting it, dealing with it, but it is taking steps and moves, not by chance. And we will not spread panic, Croatian citizens have believed the government and state guarantee in terms of savings roles, have left savings stakes in banks and there is no panic and Croatian citizens, Croatian citizens will continue to trust the government to run a serious economic policy, and this bill will set an example of how government officials will be the first to be saved, whose salaries will be cut the most. However, I would sum up the debate with one conclusion that may well fall short of a ton of debate, but that is, we can conclude that we all agreed that wages should be reduced and government officials should be an example of wage reduction and thus contribute to the financial stability of the state. And for this reason, I thank all those who have supported this basic thought to the leader, that the state officials in my pay is separated from the salaries of civil servants with whom the Government continues social dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29271	Thank you. And we have two corrections to the quote. The first is Honorable Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29272	I am correcting the incorrect allegations of Mr. Palaric's respected secretary of state that the interest did not grow. It is not a fact that many banks surprised their committees a few weeks ago with districts where they increased interest on loans of 1 and more percent depending on the situation and type of credit. The banks do still have el dorado in the Republic of Croatia and unfortunately take advantage of this situation to collect even more profits from Croatian citizens, unfortunately both state-owned companies and the government themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29273	Thank you. And a second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29274	Thank you. Well, I could correct almost this whole speech because this is still the Secretary of State's word, so doctoring parliamentary deputies and, above all, political opinion. However, I want to correct it only in one instance, that this is not the government's intention, the reduction of these officials' salaries, but was just the SDP proposal that appeared in the first month that the government then said was demagogue and hypocritical and would bring down the entire system. That's what the Deputy Prime Minister said on behalf of the Government of Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29275	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met for these two points.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29276	Proposal for a law establishing a basis for calculating the salaries of government officials in 2009, first reading, Proposer: SDP Representatives' Club. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote the conclusion in line with the proposals of the parliamentary working bodies and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which reads: "The proposal for a law establishing a basis for calculating the salaries of government officials in 2009. A year.". Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find this conclusion accepted by the majority of 74 votes in favour and 26 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29347	And we're going to the third item of the agenda. - Proposal for a law amending the law on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009, first reading, P.Z. No. 255 Proposer: Club of Representatives of the SDP; Proposer of this Act of the Club of Representatives, pursuant to Article 129. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to 1st reading of Articles 144 to 150 shall apply to the adoption of this law. You took the materials into the boxes. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29348	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Continued to talk about the anti-recession package then this measure is in the protection of the economy. In addition to a number of those tax measures that have not already passed this parliamentary debate, the next law has been turned primarily to support the economy in this first part of the battle to preserve liquidity in banking business, the second one on promotional measures related to export financing, to finance certain projects of Croatian businessmen. Of course, besides this part, it is important to point out and I would say as one of the measures of the report on the protection of competition and market conditions of business because these reports are also very important for us in the Croatian Parliament to in some way preserve the relationship between the economies. And, of course, it is very important to say that, in addition to these direct measures, we have those general measures to limit the public sector where the SDP measures and the proposed budget are due to the summation of all these proposals, but also to the cost savings measures, given the need for economic incentives. Here is so, purely for the sake of understanding that the consistent package of these measures proposed by the SDP is in view of the observations we received from the Croatian Government in light of this law. Now two words about the assessment of liquidity in the Republic of Croatia. It is evident that the lack of financial resources in the Republic of Croatia, for our reasons of recession and impact of the recession, is primarily on the financial sector. The estimates are which we handle at the end of last year, given that data from the National Bank and statistics that simply the number of blocked legal persons passed 30% increase compared to the year before. So over 30% of the legal people were blocked in 2008. Also, what's interesting, and that's unsettled obligations above 60 days that more significantly point to liquidity disturbances at the end of the year over 66% is the amount of those who have blockades above 60 days. And of course, the estimate that close to 30 billion in last year is in blockades, which means a huge part of the funding and obviously a huge amount that will affect many employers. Of course, the biggest problem is those who are small employers and who will have a significant sense of these liquidity problems. And then we return to the monetary policy of the Croatian National Bank, in which it continues to try to keep restrictions on the banking system in its placements. Of course, the problem of these financial situations now we have on other statistics so that I don't read them, the decline of goods, the decline of industrial production, the decline of imports, all of this has direct implications for the state budget in which the state budget is evident, lacks the input of resources from the most, I would say a significant inflow, and that is VAT. And of course, there is also the need of the Croatian state for additional duties as a time bridge, and perhaps since the budget has been adopted with one economic growth projections it is evident that we already have a stagnation in the first quarter, that we have a negative trend in economic growth. Therefore, the need and the Croatian economy for credit funds arises, the needs of the state budget for additional financial resources arise, and at the same time we have, I would say, measures of the National Bank. In professional circles, we are also very familiar with the fact that he slipped the course, and therefore through exchange rate changes they rose, I would say business bank placements, and therefore banks have certain problems to meet and meet the requirements of monetary policy on the limit of placement. All of this is a problem that I think we should be interested in and directed to try to see if there are solutions that the Croatian State, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is trying to help the economy find additional funds. In all these previous years, when the Croatian economy was doing well, it was a positive business with certain economic growth, when we were satisfied with the inflows of tax into the state budget, the Croatian State or Government, I apologize, the Croatian Government, as one of the participants in financial transactions was mostly in debt on the domestic market and left the external market to banks that served both the Croatian state and, of course, the banks that served citizens at the same time and the economy of the Republic of Croatia. So a certain lack of funds on the domestic financial market of banks and businessmen found themselves abroad. With a recession already in motion outside, which had special implications for the banking system in Europe and worldwide, it is evident that the economy will no longer be able to find financial resources abroad. They won't be able to. It is simply illusory to expect that the missing funds for the economy will be able to look for themselves. Also, the messages of the owner or queen of our banks are very clear. Given that their queens are in serious trouble due to the financial recession in the world, further payments to domicile banks will not be or will always be only in small amounts of restriction in order to in some way maintain certain placements by domestic banks. All this suggests that the lack which, and not caused by additional responsibilities of the Croatian government, would be evident and that at that time whoever could only appear on the foreign financial market is the Croatian government which should find the last chances and opportunities to try to borrow from the foreign market. Especially if we know that at this point, the lack of liquid assets in the budget of the state transfers only to the domestic area, that this is not just the budget, that this is also the case with road construction companies, that this is probably the case with energy companies and that simply taking these funds from domestic bank funds will leave the Croatian economy completely without the necessary financial capital. This is the reason why the SDP proposed a bill amending the State Budget Act for the Republic of Croatia for 2009, thus proposing that we commit to the Croatian Government to try and do everything for all needs to engage funds from abroad and thus to target the few funds remaining in the banking system of the bank according to its committees. It is certain that already the involvement of the Croatian government in banks over the past two and a half months has significantly reduced the prospects of the businessmen to receive additional funding independently of the measures of the National Bank, which in one part and made changes in monetary policy, allowing banks to place certain funds towards the state budget and not reducing their limits or allowing banks to think that they are in an inability to monitor the economy through change limits. The chances are that the Croatian government will succeed in borrowing abroad, I think, are not dependent on the Croatian government, but on the possibility of a global financial market. We think that's not an irrevocable problem either. As much as we consider the situation in the world to be critical, it is difficult to find funds abroad we think that the Croatian state can find them, so we are also free to say given the huge commitments in 2009 and businesses and banks towards ino-loans if the problem is in the capital market, then there is also a conversation with institutions such as the IMF, the World Bank, European banks also a place for talks where the participant must be the Croatian government. Therefore, if anyone can be in charge, we think it is the Croatian government. When we talk about the government's position on our proposal, the government is trying to say that the State Budget Implementation Act is nothing more than the result of a state budget which determines exactly what amount it will be in debt on a domestic basis, in which it is on the foreign market. What we're saying is this is a law that needs to be followed by changes and additions to the state budget. Therefore, if this law is also going on, it is evident that changes and additions will be proposed to the Croatian Assembly not only to reduce individual expenditures because there are not enough revenue but also to propose to the Croatian Parliament a completely different bill of duty for amendments and additions. Therefore, if the bill were to be adopted this way, it means that the state budget that I am assuming will come into the parliamentary procedure in this month would have only items of inotres. This is our only way for the Croatian government to help in the big problem, which is to resolve the inequitableness and the kind of insurance of banking liquidity for the needs of the Croatian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29349	Thank you. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? Yeah. Dear Ivana Maletic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29350	Honorable Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Thank you very much. Here I am pleased that we can actually conclude and agree together that it is essentially impossible to accept this Amendment and Supplemental Law on the implementation of the state budget without amending and supplementing the state budget in which the financing account defines the amount of borrowing. Of course, as regards the possibility of borrowing on the domestic and foreign market, these are in fact provisions in the Implementing Act stemming from the very Budget Law. Both the Government and the previous years, when borrowing and borrowing was exclusively on the domestic market, the Government did not, therefore, write in the Implementation Act that it could be in debt on the domestic market, but it was always this general provision that stemmed from the Budget Law, which defined the possibility of borrowing both on the foreign and domestic markets. We were fully aware when the state budget was therefore adopted and defined that it was important in 2009 to open up as much space to the economy and other sectors and that the state should focus and prepare to go to the foreign market. Of course, going out to the foreign market is not a process that lasts for ten days or even a month, that's something to be prepared for. The government has been preparing for this all along, so we can expect, in fact, after a longer break out with a bond on the foreign market, and we are convinced that it will be successful. What is important, too, to stress that not only is this decision now being taken on the foreign market, and that it is not the only measure and momentum of the government to release funds in other sectors, but all these years, in fact, which were years of growth and one good progress, the government's goal was to continuously reduce the deficits and this reduction of deficits also sought to open a space for other sectors to grow and actually reduce the country's growth. And in this context, the budgets have therefore been defined in a way that the expenditures are growing slower than revenue growth, but nevertheless on the bulky side of the budget, they have tried to ensure maximum incentives for entrepreneurship and the economy, so that indeed over the last five years the incentives of entrepreneurship in the budget have been almost tripled. And these are the topics we always talk about when actually the state budget is the topic of debate at the Parliament. In this part, therefore, a lot has been done, and as far as the measure is concerned, in general, during this crisis period, we can say that thanks to the good positions that we have achieved in recent years by low deficit policy, we are now starting with good positions and we can come up with a quality budget rebalance and, in fact, get out of the crisis that has hit the whole world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29351	Thank you. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. Okay. I'm opening a debate. First up are clubs, and the first is the distinguished representative Goran Maric on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29352	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable government representatives, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. And in this debate on the draft law amending the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009, several undeniable facts need to be noted. And it is undeniable that entrepreneurship, and thus the economy as a whole, is the main driving force for the development of society in general, and so is the national economy. It is undeniable that the various economic developments have an exceptional impact on many factors, on the level of state infrastructure development, on the level of gross domestic product both per capita and per capita, on the economic and social status of the population, on the purchasing power of the population, on the level and structure of the offer, on the level of prices, on the employment rate, but also on the level of competition of market development. And it is undeniable that the global financial crisis has slowed global economic growth and that the recession that has affected the whole world has also come to Croatia. The Croatian economy is also undeniable that it is in difficulty. These difficulties are caused by different factors. From the factors in the outer environment to the factors in the inner environment. From the factors transferred from the external environment that carries all the negativeities of the economic crisis to the internal ones that are numerous and different. According to the biggest and most pronounced problem in the Croatian economy is and we repeat several times, here is counterpart Linic, also earlier said, lack of financial resources and lack of capital or unfavourable credit conditions for business banks without which there is not one healthy, long-term sustainable development of the economy. And as attractive as fiscal policy instruments at the theoretical level are to solve economic business cycles, fiscal policy is better in theory than in practice. In modern economic times, monetary policy has become a more promising and effective weapon for the mitigation of economic fluctuations. It is undeniable that today's money supply, and thus the level of interest rates, has the strongest and most direct impact on production, employment and price levels. Today, no one suspects that we are in the whirlwind of economic turning points, today no one suspects that modern economic life has brought economic crisis, an increase in unemployment, the predominance of banks and insurance companies, but that it has also brought prejudice from the above-average financial managers, as well as the roles of paper fiction in the overall economy. It is not good for this modern economic life to be saddened by all its activities, while others rejoice. And it looks forward to those who earn even greater profits than under normal management conditions and under conditions of economic growth and higher employment. It is undeniable that the Republic of Croatia is one of the most in charge of the world by looking at foreign debt relative to gross domestic product, and that with 31 January, foreign debt is 39.91 billion euros. Of course, the Republic of Croatia's foreign sources of funding are increasingly unreachable because of the general financial crisis and because of the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia. The same applies to the Croatian economy. The only alternative to foreign borrowing for the purpose of refinancing, reprogramming or additional borrowing is borrowing from business banks in Croatia that have high liquidity potential available to banks despite the central bank's regulatory measures that have limited the growth of commercial bank placements. The draft law amending the Law on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 goes towards the fact that the Republic of Croatia cannot be in charge in the future in the Republic of Croatia but only on the foreign financial market. Although such a proposal seeks to ensure better financing of the economy, the HDZ Club believes that legal regulation of the place of borrowing to the sector with a deficit of financial resources is affecting the autonomy of the market economy. It is undeniable that the Croatian economy is crying out for quality sources of funding, but it is undeniable that the total liquidity is also the potential of business banks in Croatia not fully used in spite of the central bank's limits, since the total credit base currently stands at 247 billion kuna, which is only 80% of the total liquidity potential, given the total savings and assets of business banks in Croatia. And the main sources of credit funds are the deposits of the population and deposits of the Republic of Croatia's economy and currently amounting to about 170 billion kuna. I don't know many famous people, but the Republic of Croatia is paying off the debts of the former state for 19 years, based on the obligations of the Paris and London Club, and will have to pay them for another 14 months. I don't know how many people know that sometimes the Croatian National Bank is in the early '90s until '95. It directly paid off the obligations of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the Paris and London Club and that it could still be in debt at the National Bank of Croatia and on the domestic market and on the foreign market. Two, three years ago, there was a change in legal solutions, legal regulations which made it impossible for the Republic of Croatia to be in debt with the Croatian National Bank. And here is the proposal to prevent the borrowing of the Republic of Croatia and business banks in Croatia. At the moment for the Republic of Croatia, it is of crucial importance under which conditions to reprogramme or refinance or be further in debt. Of course, because of the extremely high commitments made to the Republic of Croatia, it needs to be possible to choose more favourable conditions, because these conditions will be important to determine Croatia's economic future, but by limiting borrowing on the domestic financial market there will be no choice. For all these reasons, and for the fact that it is impossible to accept such a proposal without amending the budget. The HDZ Club will support the conclusion and will vote not to accept the draft Law amending the 2009 State Budget Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29353	Thank you. We have another club. It's on behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Nadica Jelas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29354	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. This Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia in 2009 should be seen in the context of all other measures under the SDP Anti-Recession Package which we have reacted as a responsible and constructive opposition to the current recession. Of course, such a reaction was expected primarily by Croatian citizens from the government entrusted with state governance in this term. They expected a sort of life-saving belt, however they did not get it, and this time until a tornado financial crisis hit Croatia with full force, it was actually the right time to define all the details of the rescue action. If we can say so, Croatian economies and Croatian citizens. The financial crisis for economic operators significantly reduces the possibility of obtaining credit funds on the foreign capital market, and this fact actually has a very strong reflection on internal liquidity. According to FINA data, the number of blocked legal persons has increased by 30% in the past year and the amount of outstanding liabilities has increased by up to 60 days by as much as 66%. Total earnings and outstanding liabilities at the end of 2008 amounted to €14.4 billion and charged slightly more than 20,000 legal entities with over 32,000 employees. So, every fourth Croatian company finished its business year in 2008 with a blocked gyro budget. More than half of the total amount of debt recorded refers to outstanding tax liabilities. Individence is actually just an external manifestation of the difficult economic situation. As the high temperature points to the disease of the organism, the indifference of the predecessors of major losses, since the lack of trade capital sooner or later leads to loss. For example, INA is already known to be negative for 2008. As far as we know from the information funds, she's shown a billion kuna losses. When the annual accounts for last year are summed up, we will see what results have been obtained by other large companies and large systems. But it is certain that profits will be less than a year earlier, resulting in a decrease in investment opportunities in long-term assets, and the lack of investment definitely means that there is no development, and that circle is closing. In an attempt to slow down the spread of the degree of indifference and allow the economy to catch its breath, we intervened with our legal proposal in Article 26. The law on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia in 2009, in a way that prevents the Government from paying off the principal government's current debt due to the current one in 2009, which is estimated to amount to $12.8 billion in the financing account. Therefore, that the state cannot be in debt on the domestic financial market, but only on the foreign market. Therefore, the restructuring of the government debt to the intended amount would be limited only to a foreign market, since the state is still more easily in debt abroad than the economic operators do. In this way, a space for borrowing the economy and citizens on the domestic market would be opened, which, according to our assessment of this moment, is indeed a lifeline.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29355	Thank you. And we're crossing. On behalf of the promoter, I apologize, distinguished representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29356	Mr. Vice President, just one intervention. When we talk about a proposal to amend the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget in order to go to the Government's Io Market, two more facts need to be pointed out. In this year we expect a hard fight from the monetary government and with the exchange rate of kuna. Surely the external market reprogramme means the provision of necessary foreign exchanges, and I would say a reduction in pressure on the kuna. We also speak, and we heard a representative of HDZ, a colleague of Maric, who talks about the price of capital. For the Croatian government, perhaps debt to domestic banks would mean a slightly lower interest, but what banks do. If they give the government something lower interest, they move interest on citizens and businessmen and we witness the growth of interest to citizens and businesses. Therefore, let's remember the banks have no own funds because they have restrictions, the banks will be in debt outside, but the price at which the Croatian government will be in debt is not real. It's a deal. On whose burden? The burden of citizens and businessmen. Banks have given more favourable loans in the last two months to the Croatian government to raise interest to citizens and businesses. In order to avoid this, the Government can achieve a real price in direct contracts and direct negotiations with the ino capital markets, and not that banks may place funds abroad to us at the expense of settlements with the Government. Let's remember, someone pays that debt. It may not be paid by the state, but it is paid by citizens and businessmen. It will have consequences for the budget again. Why will they have consequences for the budget? Less economic results, losses, less revenue in the budget, a reduction in economic growth. And that's why we think, as hard as it is, let's think long-term. Direct contact with the ino market will give us the right price and there is no way that the banks through I would tell us to intervene and part of their policies that certainly do not mean plus, but minus, but on the burden of those who unfortunately suffer and the greatest losses. And given what I'd say, the grades we've heard about the battle for as little deficit as possible in the state budget, then let's try to say if it's exactly what we've heard from the government's representatives that the zero deficit so far has contributed to the stability of the economy. I think today we can say it's not true. The zeroth deficit when we look at the budget existed, but none of us today deny that we haven't solved the health system, that we have huge deficits in the health system that are not covered. The issue of pension reforms and the second pillar has been opened, and we know that the part has not been resolved as well. We're also negotiating salaries now. But it is not just because it is necessary to cut the state budget, it is a huge amount of salary compared to gross contributions, I apologize to Croatia's gross social contribution. What does that mean? The number of employees, the efficiency of employees or what is a reform of the state administration has also not been resolved. And what is the biggest problem of Croatia we have not solved shipbuilding, we have not solved agriculture, we have not solved export economy and structural changes in the export economy. All of these are problems that we can't say with a zero deficit they're solved, so then the zeroth deficit is on paper. Things are Croatia's problems, and there are. And as counterpart Maric said, it's not just the world recession problem. Our problem is internal shortcomings, internal problems which I have now brought down only to these 5 areas – health care, pensions, administration, shipbuilding and agriculture. Therefore, these are terrible deficits that we have not solved, which will always burden the state budget, and unfortunately heavy burden for the whole economy. And that's our problem, because once we access a solution to that, then we'll see how much resources we're going to need and how much more economics we're going to charge. And that is why we really need to become aware of the cheapest for the Croatian government will be 100 percent of the ino market debt because then it will be capital that may cost a little more than the state budget. But the Croatian state, the Croatian gross social product for the simplest reason, because the banks will not transfer their irrationality to the citizens and to the economy. And that is why I say that if we accept this kind of thinking, it will not be a problem for the Croatian government, nor will it propose an amendment to the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29357	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29358	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with an associate. When we talk about amending the law on the implementation of the state budget and when we say that this law is as such because the budget rebalance and the new budget law may not be necessary if we have a new budget in 3 weeks, a new law. I believe that no matter what it is, it should go on to amend this law, if nothing, and it should be shown the way in which the new law should be prepared. And I would, if we were to take a little bit of a turn into a new budget law, introduce a provision where neither domestic nor foreign money market can be in debt. Of course, this is impossible, but given how much foreign debt the state is now and since the growth of the debt of the central state is present, it might be better to try to concentrate within the budget on all possible savings so that the budget can be realistically planned and realistically implemented. But, of course, that's not possible because of the seasonal oscillation of the budget. It is always necessary to have that extra reserve in debt. Why does this law have to be passed, and even though the new budget law will soon go, a new budget. I think that is because the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the state, continues to be in debt on the domestic market and thus takes the necessary funds to the Croatian economy. I will not mention it in particular now, but it is enough to remember the example in the first month when the central state borrowed from the Croatian banks 2 billion kuna to cover the needs for salaries and pensions, and so on. Now here we have auctions of vault records, where 740 billion vaults, 740 million vaults, are now numbered several days ago. Even so, only 40 million kuna from Croatian banks because they are currently busy with their liquidity problem. But the fact is that the central state continues to be in debt on the domestic market in banking and thus takes the money needed by the Croatian economy, and we all know in which situation today is also in the case of negative economic growth, but also in the situation that Croatian companies do not particularly have the means to invest in production. The situation of such a policy means the draw-out of money from the domestic capital market inevitably leads to data that are truly devastating and, at the end of the year when we talk about liquidity and insolvency, so that it means that there is a continuous growth of the number of insolvency legal entities, so that at the end of the year it was around 20350 with a debt of 14.4 billion kuna. You can imagine the amount of that money and that this growth of approximately 12.8% more than in the month before, and this continues in January and February of this year, certainly contributes to the lack of capital on the domestic market, and therefore, of course, it must be clear why we all ask to limit the government's borrowing on the domestic market. It must be oriented primarily towards the international market, regardless of what will be difficult, because we are aware that these days Croatia has experienced for the first time in many years to lower its rating credit. So for one level of kuna debt, which is the response of international financial analysts to how late it was and I would say the inadequately Croatian government reacted to the recession that Croatia entered. And all of this with each other doesn't exactly give a fairy tale picture, so we think it's necessary not to be in debt on the domestic market, but that it's going to be much more expensive and much harder international than it's ever been, and all of this is going in one direction, and that's that when we rebalance the budget that's going to be on the agenda in 2, 3 weeks, we're going to have to take care of it and try to find the maximum space inside the savings budget to be realistically planned and realistically implemented. But here, I say instead of helping the central state through eventually some subsidies, through the HBOR there will probably be more words about it at the next point. We have the opposite effect, and that is that we also have little capital available on the domestic market of the country's mammals, after all, to pay for our operating costs and ultimately to have a bad situation and the inability to task domestic legal persons on the domestic capital market. And that is why this law, regardless of what might be expected, means that even if the budget is rebalanced, this amount is no longer mentioned here, and some other things that will be defined by the new budget may not be current. I believe that the adoption of this law should show a strong determination of both the Croatian Parliament and the Government not to be in debt and not to take money from domestic capital markets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29359	Thank you. Dear Zgrebec's distinguished representative is coming. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29360	Thank you, Mr. Vice President and Madam Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to refer very briefly to this proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 and to the part where it is said about borrowing in a way that we propose that these amendments are no longer due to the Government on the domestic market. In fact, following the revenues of the budget and January that were in significant subsidisation and following the situation on the financial market, the domestic financial market from the capital market to the banking system has actually come to the conclusion that the available funds on the domestic financial market are needed if we want to work as successfully as possible and that it is the state that would have to appear on the foreign capital market, even under more unfavourable conditions than it could achieve on the domestic market. That is why we have already proposed in January these amendments to the law on the implementation of the state budget, starting with the need for a rapid budget rebalance already in the first month of the current year. Unfortunately, the most responsible people in the government, thinking primarily of the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister, did not take that into account until a few days ago, we had statements that there was no reason to panic, that it was temporary, that it was common to lower the full budget at the beginning of the year. However, already now statistics show a significant decline in retail traffic and a significant drop in imports which were actually the main levers of charging the budget through value added tax. At the time of this financial global crisis is actually a waste of opportunity... credit funds from abroad, especially for the economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, after 2005 we have for the first time reduced the debt of other domestic entities and the growth of external debt banks. It is true that in some parts the state has reduced its external responsibility, but at the same time it has significantly raised internal debt to which the state has participated to a significant extent. This was also the reason for the government's borrowing on the domestic financial market, forcing economic operators to be in debt on the foreign market. The new situation on the global financial market means closing national financial markets for the needs of the national economy and the national economy, and it actually makes it impossible for our entities to look for financial resources outside Croatia. What you need to worry about is high indifference. We are only in a year, increased the number of blocked legal persons by 30%, and for outstanding liabilities over 60 days by as much as 68%. The total unsettled commitments reached in the 11th month last year amounted to over 14 billion kuna, nearly 20,000 entities were blocked, with nearly 35.5 thousand workers working in them. These are worrying data, data that indicate that we are going in one bad direction and that the state cannot be freed because it contributes to a significant extent indifference. Others also pointed to these problems, so the Employers' Association came out very early with measures, anti-recession measures proposed by the government. We unfortunately and through these 10 measures that the government adopted a few days ago actually do not see how the budget rebalance will go. We just know that there are rounds of conversations being held about what costs to save on. So it started with state-owned companies who showed their savings through reductions in the use of personal cars, reduction of business cards, official cell phones, etc. And what really surprised me, too, is that they found over a billion, almost a billion and a half to two billion kuna on those items. The same way it went into budget rebalancing. So, the savings went to what our citizens would say is a luxury, which is a waste, which is actually a minimum, which is not even supposed to be in the 2009 state budget when the crisis was already actually not knocking on the door, but came to Croatia at a wide open door. So we expect that this law will not be passed because the government has given a negative opinion, but we expect the government to implement a certain correction in the 2009 State Budget Implementation Act with the budget rebalancing. Today, the minister is already talking about 10 billion kunas missing to cover this expenditure side. It's something you really have to worry about because we're only at the beginning of the fiscal year. If there were no problems two weeks ago and today we are talking about 10 billion kuna of missing revenue for such expenditures, when we say that wages and pensions are questionable if we do something important, then we really need to ask ourselves what the basis is and what forecasts the Government has proposed budget for 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29361	Thank you. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone. She's losing her right to argue. And finally, distinguished representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29362	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the distinguished representatives of the ministry. What I have to say at the beginning is that the concept of import-oriented economies and import-oriented fiscal policies is dead and this is seen from the income structure that this year should form an integral part of the charge of the state budget. At 30%, import activity dropped. When import activity falls 30%, this means that we have 5 to 6 billion euros less in the structure needed to achieve the growth of our income, or less of the funds that come from all other tax revenues. Unfortunately, what happened was that exports fell. Exports fell somewhere by 2 billion euros or at 20% level, over 20%, and that's the same thing as worrying, but we can't hope to increase exports and that's something we should do if capital means business activity doesn't have. Not only does he have no capital but the risk of the indifference we've heard about has become an ever-increasing burden. We've heard that the number of blocked legal persons in the last year has increased by 30%. We have heard that unsettled liabilities reach record high and never higher 66% by 60 days, and means blocked outstanding liabilities amounted to 14.4 billion kuna and 20,000 legal persons with over 35,000 workers. And now you tell me how an entrepreneur can go into entrepreneurial activity when there are a few risks, the risk of unfavourable borrowing, the risk of inability to collect claims and the risk of incompetence in the conditions of the crisis means due to a fall in consumer... and all the other factors that affect it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if he had ten jobs in the last year and he wasn't paid five for it, if this year because of some difficulties in the placement of his products and services, goods and goods can only achieve five jobs and he knows he won't be paid half of that, then he's forced to put the key in the lock. And that's something we want to warn and warn about, and that's why this proposal is also in front of you and it concerns the possibility of borrowing companies in Croatia. He's not, it's only the consequence of borrowing the state abroad. Why? If the state were to remain on the domestic capital market, and we heard today that Triple BA2 credit rating fell to Triple BA3 credit ratings, so it is permanent in decline, and it will be worse if the state cannot pay off its liabilities regularly I would not want to assume what would happen to the scenario if the government bonds were not able to pay off because it carries one whole series of other problems and a whole series of other sectors. We actually have a multiplier effect. Not only do we have the impact of pushing, but we also have a multiplier effect not only because of the push-out but also because the tax revenues will be getting smaller and the country will be less and less able to refinance its obligations. And anyway, with all the items that we have managed to list this year, if we refuse tourism, we will be missing somewhere between 2 unfortunately and 3 billion euros. It's between 10 billion and 20 billion kuna shortfall in the state budget. And I really don't know how he's going to make up for that shortfall, but what I do know is that the situation is serious. And precisely because of the serious situation, not wanting to risk a multiplier effect means borrowing companies out there or the inability to borrow, leaving people out of work, less charge of the tax revenue budget due to weaker investment activities of companies, we have suggested that the state settles its need for liquidity outside. And that's something we see as a way out but not a way out for the state, but as a way out for the economy because it's an economy that needs to be fed today, four employees have to feed two pensioners, one social rights user and one employed in the state administration. Four employees have to feed four people. And today I read that we have half of the Croatians living in the state budget of 2 million people, and that is a huge pressure for the economy and a huge pressure for our economy, and therefore this proposal is aimed at reducing this pressure on the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29363	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. Dear Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29364	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you for the discussion. And once again, I point out, the necessity for the government to step outside in debt comes first and foremost out of necessity to secure foreign exchange funds and to help the National Bank prevent pressure on the exchange rate, that's number one. Number two, we estimate that the government will achieve the best conditions in debt outside far better than the business banking sector and the business sector and that then we will have the lowest costs for the state and will not follow the transfer of capital costs from the state to the citizens and businesses that otherwise the banks have shown that they can do. And thirdly, simply to provide some capital in the domestic financial sector for the needs of the economy to try to solve both its dues and to go into any investment and battle for economic growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29365	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29366	Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009, first reading, P.Z. No. 255, Proposer: SDP representative club. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote the conclusion in line with the proposals of the parliamentary working bodies and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which reads: "The proposal for a law amending the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic for 2009. A year.". Who's in favour of this proposal's conclusion? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that most of the votes have been adopted by this proposal with 74 votes and 25 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29367	We move to the 4th item of the agenda, which is - The proposal for a decision on the payment of funds from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 into basic capital, subsidies, interest and interest in the loans of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You got the motion for an act in the boxes. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Law. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29368	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club proposes a decision to ensure in the 2009 state budget the payment of the core capital of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, up to the level laid down by the law establishing this bank, up to 7 billion kuna, and to increase the funds for the subsidy of interest and interest in loans from the planned 290 to 500 million kuna. We propose that such funds be raised in a way that changes and the 2009 state budget are complemented. With this law when we proposed it in January, we felt that the rebalancing of the state budget should be made up by 1 March 2009, of course this point three should now change, because we have now entered the month of March. It's very short to explain why we suggest it. Because the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development was founded in 1992 as an institution defined as the development export bank of the Republic of Croatia. During that period she actually played her part, she worked better and more and more, and the economy became increasingly dependent on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Not only the economy, but it also played a significant role in restoring the Republic of Croatia after the war. HBOR also provides banking services, other financial services and ancillary banking services in the Republic of Croatia and abroad, investment in the economy and export business insurance from non-market risks. Every year, when we discuss the Croatian Bank's report for Reconstruction and Development, it only gets praise in Parliament whether their work is assessed by those who are in power or by those who are in opposition and we believe that this is why the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development should finally have a total share capital of 7 million kuna. In fact, the 2006 law established that amount for HBOR’s core capital and that the payment dynamics of capital would be determined by the annual state budget. It should be said that between 2000 and 2003, annual detachments from the budget to the core capital of this bank have been significantly increased from 500 million kuna annually, in order to reduce this to 2 million kuna again. According to the known data, by the end of 2008, the capital was paid into the capital, so in those 17 years only 4 billion and 80 million kuna, and in this state budget for this year an additional 200 million kuna and 290 million kuna were provided for interest subsidies, so a total of 490 million kuna. To repeat, HBOR has acquired the reputation of a significant financial institution that is increasingly being accompanied by the developmental export component of the Croatian economy. Today it is almost unimaginable that the export economy works without the support of the HBOR is particularly important for the textile industry. However, since the HBOR paid just slightly more than 50% of the legally established core capital, it acts outside as a fund and less as a development bank. We believe that a one-time payment to a level of 7 million kuna would actually give them a better credit rating, so more opportunities for borrowing abroad and under more favourable conditions. How all macroeconomic indicators based on the 2009 state budget have changed rapidly in the first two months. So we're no longer talking about the growth of the social gross product for these modest 2%, but we're talking about the decline at the moment of 2%. As time goes on and on and on and on and on, all these indicators are actually actually increasing in this negative sense. It should be said that the state budget is filling up badly. That's also why the government decided to rebalance the budget from which it has been running from so far. Thus, the drop in budget revenues, but also the pressure on the public of the economy which is increasingly difficult to meet its commitments, must be achieved by a budget rebalance. And then you ask questions about how to get these almost 4 billion kunas? We are also advocates this time, let the Croatian state be in charge and pay off that core capital. It will also, in a certain sense, monitor the HBOR in that foreign borrowing. HBOR must find funds outside Croatia because it cannot be found in Croatia and the people responsible for the functioning of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development continue to do so with a lot of success, perhaps even more than the Croatian Government does. In time, the Croatian Employers' Association proposed to establish a special fund, a risk fund or to call from which interventions would take place towards the economy. We don't think that would be good, because it would often be divided by subjective, not objective criteria. Having full confidence in the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, we think it is better that it does, because it is its basic function. What would be the increase in deficits based on these expenditures from the budget? They would not go into consumption, they would be in the function of developing the economy, in the function of keeping jobs in a small decline in exports, because they would be focused on the export economy, so when countries that are members of the European Monetary Union, therefore those who have a common monetary currency exceed that 3% deficit level, why not Croatia too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29369	Thank you. Does a government official want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Ivana Maletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29370	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, thank you very much. Therefore, as regards this proposal, it is important to point out in the core capital of the HBOR to the amount of 7 billion kuna, and then for interest subsidies and the share of the loans of 500 million kuna, that this is not about 4 billion kunas still missing, since it has been paid 4.4 billion so far, and in fact, that amount is 2.6 billion kuna. What is more important to say is that the law defining the underlying capital paid for the HBOR changed in 2006 and that the basic capital provision actually changed in a way that it increased from 3.6 billion to 7 billion kuna in 2006. So already at that point in 2006, and this really shows one orientation and this long-term government orientation to encourage entrepreneurship and to turn to the economy and the business sector. So by then, the total share capital to be raised to 7 billion kuna, and then, of course, the dynamics from year to year was about 500 million kuna at that level of the share capital. From the budget direct payment at once of 2.6 billion would really increase the deficit again and, as you said, require in fact additional borrowing in these conditions when all governments are essentially trying to find instruments to avoid borrowing additionally. But also in that part, we tried to do a lot so that it was basically secured and negotiated with the International Financial Institutions, with the EIB, the World Bank and the CEB amount of 400m euros secured for HBOR, so for incentives to entrepreneurship. And these 400 million euros is about this amount, which we want to give to HBOR additionally for incentives and corresponds to the total share capital. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29371	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. Thank them very much. And I'm opening a debate. And let's go to the clubs first. The first is the distinguished representative Goran Maric on behalf of the HDZ club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29372	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the respected secretary of state with an associate, an esteemed colleague and colleague. By substance decision, the Proposer of the SDP Representatives Club in the Croatian Parliament proposes to provide and pay firstly in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 in the core capital of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development up to 7 billion kuna, and to subsidise interest and interest in loans amounting to 500 million kuna. The Proposer requests that the missing funds in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 be provided with amendments and additions to the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009. Following such a proposal, several logical findings are imposed. It is logical that the underlying capital of each institution and organisation and company should be paid. It is logical that the interest of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is also subsidized and that this proposal is the only real and true flaw that has come at the wrong time. Because this time is now a very unfavourable time for additional borrowing, because the conditions under which the Republic of Croatia would be owed would be significantly more unfavourable than the conditions under which these funds would be paid into the core capital of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development would be placed in the Croatian economy. So far, 4 billion and 400 million kunas have been paid into core capital, but the fact is that it's not 17 years that no underlying capital has been paid because it's been increased as we heard in 2006. It is important to stress that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has already launched a new production lending programme to enable smooth production during the period of the economic crisis and has positively affected the liquidity and competitiveness of the manufacturer, and everything worth cca 3 billion kuna. The programme is primarily intended for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and will be implemented through business banks. I believe there will come a better time when the underlying capital can be paid. But at this time, it is not really directed to be additionally debted, and there is no room, nor are there users who could be reduced from the state budget or completely deprived of the planned funds for 2009. Therefore, the HDZ Club will also support and vote in favour of the conclusion reached on the Committee on Finance and the State Budget not to accept the proposal for a decision on the payment of funds from the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 to the underlying capital of the interest subsidy and the share in the loans of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29373	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29374	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam and Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club supports the proposal for a decision on the payment of funds from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 to the core capital of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as well as all other proposals that we had heard today, which we had the opportunity to discuss today for several reasons. The first moment is where we are a recession that is now more than clear, and we talked about it three and four months ago. Secondly, and this is one in a series of concrete proposals that we have even had the opportunity to discuss in the Croatian Parliament because the fact that measures, anti-recession measures that we have received from the Government, have not yet, neither of these measures have we had the opportunity to discuss in the Croatian Parliament yet, and the fact that these measures are at the level of the letter of intent, because these measures neither have deadlines, nor have operators, nor have very concrete indicators of what is being given and what is being obtained, except for the general form that we are taught to, and because of these general forms we are in the overall economic situation in which we are currently. The Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Facts is and I must say that it is not at all relevant to the presentation of the Government's representatives at this point of time what mathematics is like. Was it until 2006, is it not, whether it takes 7 billion, it takes 2 billion something, but the fact is that we have, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has legal from 2006 to pay from the state budget to the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, for its... The capital of 7 billion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's a fact. And it's a fake. And it has not been done as many other things that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not done, and there is a legal obligation and there is a decision of this Croatian Parliament. The bank itself was founded as a development and export bank of the Republic of Croatia and definitely it has fulfilled, in fact contributed, we cannot say that it has fulfilled its function, but that it has contributed to the achievement of certain objectives that is certainly true and should be said. But there's one other thing to say at the same time. In this morning's interview with one entrepreneur, an exporter from the wood industry, and I am taking the opportunity to stress again that the wood industry, which is the only and only as an economic branch, has domestic raw materials exports and is renewable in the last year made 200 million kunas more revenue than shipbuilding, while at the same time, the industry is supported by 50 million, while in the case of shipbuilding, there are quite another amounts, and what again speaks of one inconsistency and one policy without a very clear strategy and very clear goals. A fellow businessman says, I have an Italian delivery contract worth 600,000 euros. No business bank is ready at this point to enter co-financing, in preparation for the export business. In Croatia, the Bank for Reconstruction and Development is also not able to join the project at this time because of the inequitableness and for the resolution of old obligations, because of its commitments and realistic forecast that by the end of the 4th month, and it is very likely that in the 5th month there is simply no way for the bank to monitor the project. And just in this context, in this very context, by analysing this proposal, by realizing the need of this proposal, I think there is no reason to refer to this proposal in the way we normally do, because it comes from the opposition side, and by speaking more about a proposal that is a government obligation to meet it and that legal obligation. Furthermore, the fact that Croatia is a bank for reconstruction and development is mainly funded by projects through business banks. In one very negligible and very small part enters direct placement towards the entrepreneur. What do business banks get? Business banks simply get support in their liquidity from Croatian Bank's funds for reconstruction and development, get the possibility of additional earnings through all those insurances that are present and which are simple and prescribed by the law and rules of the Croatian National Bank, the funds are maximumly protected and the question is, how much does that bank have that development component? She's more conservative than the business banks. How many entrepreneurs from the municipality of Glina have the same chance in relation to the entrepreneurs who are their project, and the same are projects, compared to the entrepreneurs who run their projects, for example from the Zagreb area, because the business bank is in play? Does the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development perform its basic function, which is a development component, financing sustainable development? Practice has shown that no, and this moment says that this is an extremely necessary and ultimately all of them, but literally everyone points to the importance of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I mean, literally, everybody. But its function, I believe that with this foreign debt, the bank will be recapitalised, but if the bank does not change its relationship with entrepreneurs, if the bank remains a source of liquidity for business banks, and mostly 7 large ones, of which 7 large 6 are owned by foreign banks, there is only one in our ownership, the Croatian Post Bank, and the fact that small Croatian banks wait six months for the possibility of being involved in projects financed by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I think that these are the real problems of everyday life, the problems that our entrepreneurs face on a daily basis, and I think that at this point the opportunity and the possibility and the need to simply talk about it, and that this problem is being analysed, because if we do not change the practice of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development in terms of lending through business banks, we have further ensured through state resources that we have increased liquidity to business banks, and how and how business banks behave we have spoken today and in the first point, when colleagues from SDP tried, we literally tried to do with the legal proposal what our citizens... It is necessary, and this is to reduce the negative impact of the increase in interest on housing loans and when a colleague Bernardic used a very good word, which is whether we are ready, which is the obligation of the state, whether we are ready with our national sovereignty to provide our citizens with as much a better position as they need right now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm going to use this point for another topic that is present and in which almost everyone when they propose anti-recession measures speaks, which is an intervention fund. And here I do not agree with my colleague Zgrebec when he says that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development should assume that function because it is precisely because of the rather conservative and strictly prescribed conditions of lending, since the overall situation and the disease of our economy that the structural crisis of our economy we believe in the Croatian People's Party club that it is necessary to move, not to start, but to start with an intervention fund because we have a fund. It doesn't need to be established. We have a Fund for Development and Employment focused on the real sector, but it needs to be strengthened. And I'm sure he needs to be strengthened with a budget rebalance. And when I mention budget rebalancing, questions will be asked who to take. And that's exactly the problem. Whether or not we have defined priorities and whether it is a fact and it has been proven that the current budgets are not set priorities that will or should be financed from the state budget. It seems to me that they are defined and practice has shown very strange criteria, as a rule of political without cos benefit analysis. And at the same time, we think that this budget rebalance due to the seriousness of the situation, because of the seriousness of the moment, it is necessary right now not to prove whose idea is smarter, but to prove that we all have the wisdom together to find solutions that will allow us to get out of this crisis that is evident. We've been reading and listening to concession statements lately. It's one of the models. It's one of the models how and how to provide a part of the funds for this particular intervention fund. Given the well-known and analysed and good physiability of the Peljega Bridge project, we propose to give the Pelješki bridge a concession. If the project is good, I don't see any reason, I really don't see any reason why this project can't find a concessionaire. Why not? Let's get these funds from the budget provided for the Peljega Bridge, let's include them in the intervention fund and give direct support to the economy. Furthermore, the incentives to agriculture, I repeat again, I recently presented the data in the debate in 10 years 25 billion we included as an incentive in the development of agriculture. As a result, 20% of total production in the agricultural sector is lower. Are we welcome to those incentives that have been paid, which are certainly welcome to our farmers. What is not good has gone to some who have not earned the incentives and what is certain, for these funds no cos benefit analysis has been made. And I believe that there is also a space in this segment to secure part of the funds, again which could include this intervention fund because I am not talking about the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, because it is also known and very likely and I hope that this borrowing will be ensured on the foreign market, but at the same time I am sure that if the obligation to the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development in terms of fulfilling the legal obligation, and that is the core capital of 7 billion, then the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development would have a completely different market rating than it has today with the core capital it has today. And in conclusion, the overall economic financial trends are more than clear, the very recession of the business of our reality and the fact that we must make decisions immediately without delay. If we do not do something right, we are convinced that there will be less damage than the delay of the inevitable, and the fact that we have been talking very clearly for three months about the problem that is present, but also the fact that there is simply no courage to take action, and that the debate at all today's points proposed by colleagues from the SDP club, the fact that, given the government's opinion at all these points, these proposals will not be respected, but unfortunately some other proposals have not been received, and we expect that we will at least partially get through the rebalancing of the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29375	Thank you. And on behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29376	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues. Here, just in a few sentences, which is why the Club of Representatives of the SDP will support the decision we have sent as proposings in the procedure to the Croatian Parliament, which is based on two basics of things, which is the first to pay HBOR's share capital up to the amount of core capital of 7 billion kuna established by law in 2006 and, of course, the law found to be also being paid out of the state budget. Secondly, to provide for a sum of 500 million kuna for the subsidy of interest and interest in loans and all of this from the state budget, i.e. to ensure that these funds are provided with changes and additions to the state budget which are likely to be sent to the procedure soon. So, if we talk about paying about HBOR's core capital up to now about $4.4 billion, this means should be raised above all, we are from those expenditures within the state budget that are planned for investments that are not quickly cost-effective or that can be planned later on in a happier time because some of these investments were also mentioned by counterpart Koračević. We definitely believe that the priority in this year must be to help the Croatian economy and not some investment that may be paid for twenty, thirty years and we must warn on this side that this year is not even the time and the state budget is definitely not the place where such investments should be planned. This anti-recession measure is almost incredible here so far we have debated six, seven in the Croatian Parliament, which was directed by the SDP Representatives' Club and is also likely to get support or the parliamentary majority because the government refused. But in terms like I said to the Government because they're still intents and not measures, since we haven't seen any of them in writing there are certain indications that they will be one of those measures and help the economy through HBOR but, unfortunately, we haven't seen it yet, I hope we'll see it soon. In our opinion, HBOR was built as an institution that is of great benefit to the Croatian economy. And since this year we expect a slowdown, or not a slowdown, but even a negative rate of economic growth will likely be planned to 2% below last year's GDP level. We think it will be necessary to help the economy not to be lower. Some analysts have even given an estimate of 5% negative, so through the HBOR, we believe that we need to intervene to help exporters, above all, those who are affected by the lack of capital on the domestic market and on the international most. Exports dropped 26% in the first month of this year, and that is enough to say which problem our exporters are in and that they need help in this year. HBOR, however, according to the information that we have and which are publicly available because they have recently been published in the media and with the European Investment Bank because they have agreed 200m euros and with the World Bank 100m euros so that these funds can be activated and be distributed to Croatian exporters, primarily exporters, and this means for small exporters that will seek loans up to 8 million kuna somewhere. And what HBOR is now offering and what is the interest rate is saying enough that they now have their own program called interest crediting of production 5.65 per year and a quarterly euro respectively... Plus 3.75 and how competitive this is compared to what Croatian exporters of Croatian companies can borrow from Croatian banks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have to be aware and a little talk about it in public but today it is very difficult to get a short-term credit in a Croatian bank that is lower than 12% in Croatian business banks. So the comparison of what HBOR gives in relation to what Croatian business banks offer is immeasurable. It's working approximately at this point up to 7%. What we think is particularly important is the fact that HBOR especially helps produce but it helps tourism and this year we are all aware of how much I would say we even put too much hope in the tourist season and tourism because it is clear to everyone that in times of crisis, it is the tourist activity that sometimes suffers the most. It has already been an announcement of a certain decline in the tourist season, i.e. the announcement of a buking up to 10%. And now here's the hope that our individual guests will extract which is the most subsidized or credited by HBOR, so we're all aware of how necessary these funds are through HBOR. What we believe will be a great danger and where the HBOR will find it harder to obtain funds is definitely an assessment of certain houses that assess the credit rating of the state or banks that are meant in the state to carry out these types of lending. It is the assessment of the Standard&Poors which has reduced Croatia's long-term debt rating in local currency from Triple B+A-2 to Triple BA-3 so it has reduced HBOR credit rating because it is an analogy to each other and it will make it harder for HBOR to get funds on the international market although they have already said something earlier and managed to secure something but definitely it will be much more expensive than it would otherwise be. Of course, it's about the weight to even get the funding. And on the other hand, there's a possibility that this rating will be worse. It is a negative prognosis of all these houses analytical on the Croatian credit rating, especially if it falls short of a political response to state spending or fiscal flexibility of the public sector, or fiscal flexibility that the public sector is pressing on the economy. So, we must, within this budget that we are now planning to make definitely big savings of 10 billion kunas that we've all been saying for the last few months that it's been real they finally started talking and representatives of the Ministry of Finance specifically Minister Shucker and it's almost incredible that three months we're hearing about how definitely Croatia will go without a more serious rebalancing. Some rebalances were talked about around a billion $600, 2 billion, but we finally started talking about the real figures and definitely, and the rebalance depends on what credit rating will be like for both Croatia and HBOR, and thus the possibility of borrowing and borrowing and helping the further economy and exporters that will be necessary this year. And that is why we believe that this is one of the measures of these 25 measures that we have proposed may be crucial, and it is related to the economy and we believe that it should be adopted regardless of what the budget rebalance will be. We need to find funds to pay this difference up to 7 billion kuna and that these 500 million kuna subsidies can also be provided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29377	Thank you. And we're moving on to an individual debate. We have one reported. It is Honorable Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29378	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. So here's what this proposal actually shows is that in recent years, the neglected funding of public interests has come upon shallowness in the undeveloped financial system. What does that mean? This means that the Government of the Republic of Croatia Parliament and units of local self-government have been focused for years on the most primitive form of financing of public interest, which is direct budgetary financing. It carries numerous I'd say one great simplicity, because it's direct. However, numerous shortcomings, and the shortcomings are primarily the exacerbation of private investment within a long time period, so-called. ... discretionary financing, financing of a direct transfer of therefore tax redistribution which for effect does not have a long-term multiplier on income, i.e. does not affect the growth of GDP but is only reflected in price change means it is a very short-term effect. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Developed countries have tackled public-interest financing primarily through special state funding institutions. Something similar is our Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, but also through a number of other forms, especially by securitising the debtors because they created a prerequisite for the private sector to finance public interests with state support. That brings two advantages. One advantage is that the direct economy is being developed by funding means the growth of the private sector, and by securitising liabilities another appropriate thing is that it means public interest is being financed by budget-planned means which releases the great manoeuvrical potential of each government, each country to finance beyond the pressing needs and those things that cannot be financed in this way. When we talk about the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, it is also when it was founded first with one name and later renamed after the model of Germany... bank, meaning banks that encourage exports and production in various sectors. However, what needs to be opened as a topic is also the problem of the current direction, i.e. the HBOR, the role of the HBOR and the role of the state and the seriousness of the state's understanding. HBOR as an instrument of state. Because, for example, KFV has an activity relative to... versus total share capital, meaning increased about 30 times. The Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has only 3 times. And this is the problem of focus itself, meaning HBOR in promoting public interest, i.e. in encouraging exporters, domestic production of all that the agreed state needs to encourage. So the total HBOR activity is over 18 billion, and the share capital is somewhere over 6 billion and we get to multipliers 3 but given the Croatian financial market it is not so controversial. What is controversial is that a good part of this funding goes directly to business banks which unfortunately are owned by foreign banks. When Germany's KFV does a similar story, they naturally finance their banks and that's the fundamental difference. However, the necessity, unfortunately, and in this year's approach, has led us to the SDP club to propose this proposal is the fact that the credit capacities of business banks are a fear of increasing credit risk, i.e. a lack of liquidity and not meeting certain obligations of various economic operators, has led many companies to the situation that they simply cannot invest in any other way than to ask for a specialised state bank like HBOR and therefore it is realistic that in this year the crisis through the only channel, unfortunately through which we can influence HBOR's policy on higher equity assets and to encourage exports, to promote domestic production and industrial production, all that HBOR implies, and this is the payment of core capital. 2.6 billion, we also heard that this would particularly disrupt the fiscal balance and create the possibility of an additional budget deficit. However, if you listen to statements that were placed three months ago and statements that were being placed now, you can see that in three months, however, the Ministry of Finance managed to save three billion kunas. Even announcements are that they will save up to 4 billion kuna. So it wasn't the same three months ago, it's not the same now. So there's savings after all. And that's the message we're trying to say. And then the deficit was mentioned as a problem for our anti-recession measures, for certain laws that we sent into the procedure and the same pattern is still valid today. However, I must visit you that in the meantime, the structural, restructuring plan of the Ministry of Finance is to cut budget expenditures, because we simply lack more than 10 billion kunas this year, and I'm afraid more. Some of the most pessimistic analysts estimate up to 25 billion. That is why the surplus, or reserve, was created, was reduced by 3 to 4 billion. And then no one can tell me that this story could not have been planned, that it could not be found in that part 2.6 billion of the money needed to finance the Croatian economy. Because ensuring liquidity in the Croatian economy in this year is extremely important. And that's what we want to underline that through the economy multiples and maintains absolutely everything that's going on in our country. I have already said that 4 private sector employees are financing 2 pensioners, one public sector employee and financing one social rights user. Which means if 25% of imports fall in this year, the import factor of domestic demand, or domestic bids, at the end of the income is 25%, if the amount falls by 25%. We're in trouble that suddenly we have three that have to finance four. But I can't do that anymore. They may or may not finance half the pensioners or not finance the entire state administration or give up the funding of social rights and that is the effect we will meet this year and therefore it is especially necessary to secure the economy, I would not say the liquidity stock, I would say the necessary funds in the drought that can at least in reduced business dynamics continue so I would say pro-recessional, but how much level of business activity. And that's what this proposal is all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29379	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29380	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to finally thank everyone who took part in the debate on this proposal. I'd say the proposal didn't come at an unfavourable time, as a representative of the HDZ Club said. On the contrary, he came at the right time, because we have a budget rebalance ahead of us. The government's representative said there will be an additional 400m euros for HBOR, but these are credit funds and we propose, if it is such an agreement to secure the credit funds, let them go through the budget and be paid as the core capital of HBOR because it brings special quality, raises the credit rating to HBOR and it is quite different when it has a certain level of capital in relation to when it works only with credit funds. He now unfortunately has the treatment of the fund. Talks often say that the fund should also be included in the state budget, because it is also a beneficiary of the state budget. This is also seen by the HBOR rating actually following the country rating or vice versa, the country rating follows the HBOR rating. We believe that in this difficult economic situation, the state must bear the greatest burden of anti-recession measures, and we think that this decision and this debate are also a good basis for making rebalancing, i.e. to discuss the rebalancing of the state budget. Thanks again to everyone who took part in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29381	I thank and conclude the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. This ends with today's session and tomorrow morning we continue with a new consolidated agenda that you've got on the benches. We'll get it in the morning, so says the secretary. And the first item will be the Final Proposal of the Law amending the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 291. And I wish you good night. It's clear at 9:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-18-0.u29382	Proposal for a decision on the payment of funds from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 to core capital, interest subsidy and interest interest in the loans of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Proposer: Club of Representatives of the SDP. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote in line with the proposals of the parliamentary working bodies and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which reads: "The proposal for a decision on the payment of funds from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 into basic capital, interest subsidy and interest interest in the loans of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is not accepted.". Who's in favour of this proposal's conclusion? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. The motion for a decision was adopted with a majority vote of 74 votes in favour and 26 against. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We're going back to work. I suggest we bring together the debate on some points, the first, the length and the third, then the fourth and fifth, according to the areas and then the sixth and the seventh, and the eighth and the ninth, the tenth, the eleventh and the twelfth, and the thirteenth, the fourteenth and the fifteenth, too. It is about certain areas, i.e. the proposing ministries. If there are no objections, let's go to the first one, the second one. ... There have been such proposals, however, we think there is a need to bring together points in certain areas and ministries. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We'll argue easier, and we won't get pissed off. Yet 5 points to discuss is uniquely too. I suggest we go as I suggested. So, first, long and third points of the agenda, i.e. - Final draft law amending the Law on spatial planning and construction, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. number 291, second - Final proposal for a law amending the Law on the Communist Economy, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. number 293 and third - Final draft law amending the Law on Social Encouragement, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 298 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal be discussed in an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 159. Rules of Procedure. The emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. There's three of us. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, Mr. Davor Mrduljas. Here you go.
