ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44840	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is the whole pact of judicial laws, and we start with this from criminal legal issues of extended enforcement of criminal sanctions, i.e. the Prosecution Act, as a new or relative novelty in the Croatian legal system. For the first time, this Law introduces a whole system of probation. The trial is a regime of supervised freedom during which professional procedures are conducted aimed at reducing the risk that the perpetrator who commits the crime again. In a practical sense, performing a trial means less people in prisons, and therefore better conditions in existing capacities, but a successful sampling system also means a better assessment of safety risks, which means that it is less wrong to let go of supervised freedom. And that should be underlined. The following tasks will be carried out under the sampling system. Professional assessment of the perpetrator of a criminal offence with an assessment of the risk of his future behaviour. Control of the execution of house arrest measures and of the paroled perpetrator. The implementation of specific professional procedures and programmes during supervised freedom, which reduces the risk of the perpetrator doing the work again. Organisation of assistance and support after release from prison for the purpose of easier inclusion in society. Execution of sanctions in the community, intervening in peace and by... damages to criminal acts and finally, which is also a nouvu, organising assistance and support for victims of crime and her family. So, a very wide range of trial jobs that are being done in part today, but which today through the sampling system will get a professional character that will certainly not be realised within a year but this system would give the desired results and effects within three years. Let me get this straight. By adopting this system, we are actually introducing a system that is more humane and socially cheaper. It's more humane because it protects society's safety with fewer people in prisons. Socially, it is cheaper because the practice of other countries shows that the sampling system leads to a more rare recurrence of criminal offences. For a long time, the probation system is even cheaper financially, one day spent in prison is three times more expensive than one day in a controlled freedom system. Unfortunately, the introduction of a sampling system also requires significant initial investments. Employment and further education of professional staff and the purchase of necessary equipment. Part of the costs associated with the introduction of a trial in Croatia will be borne by bilateral and multilateral donors through international projects, some of which are already being implemented and others are being negotiated. With the introduction of the probation system, it starts immediately after the adoption of this Act, and all of the above mentioned probation jobs will be carried out in the whole of Croatia, by regional approach, that each region has its own probation office, which does not mean that there will be over 20 of them but will be one reasonable and objective number and after 2012, we can expect first effects, I am sure more positive effects than this significant new legal institute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44841	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Justice Committee, Mrs. Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44842	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary with his associates. The Committee on the Justice of the Croatian Parliament at the 39th session discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on Prosecution, this Committee discussed the Law as a home working body. In his opening statement, the proposer's representative briefly explained the important provisions of the Law, in particular, that despite efforts to find a more appropriate term, in the spirit of Croatian language, it failed in this regard, given that the word probation has been used in our scientific and professional public for many years, that it is recognised in a system aimed at an alternative to prison sentences, the proposer considers it most appropriate because it is not suitable. The members of the Committee unanimously supported the Final Bill proposal, particularly the interest expressed in differences in the solutions proposed by the Final Bill in relation to the solutions set out in the draft law. Since the applicant has not accepted some proposals from the Justice Committee, further evidence has been requested, in particular, for observations relating to the name of the Law, the use of the word "probation", the proposal to make an assessment on the occasion of deciding on the benefits for prisoners, a proposal which would also allow a State lawyer to invest an appeal in cases where the appeal is allowed to the convict. It has also been warned that this legislative proposal represents a newspaper and that certain provisions need to be reviewed once more to determine whether all the necessary preparations for the implementation of the Law have been made and whether the necessary resources have been provided. The debate suggests that Article 3(1) of its Rehabilitation replaces the words of resociation because it is an institute of material criminal law and the rehabilitation of perpetrators of criminal offences does not take place in probational affairs. In Article 27, which provides for the reasons for the postponement and termination of work for the general benefit of freedom in paragraph 2 that the words ‘up to 30 days’ should be deleted, since the reason for the delay is the acute disease of convicts or... the deterioration of chronic disease which cannot be limited in time and determined. Following the debate, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament that a law on probation be passed with the following amendments. The amendment to Article 3(3) of Article 3(1) of the word ‘rehabilitation’ is replaced by the word ‘resociation’, the concept of rehabilitation is defined by the Criminal Law and represents the rehabilitation of the perpetrators of the offence after the expiry of this Law of prescribed time, and consists of eradicating the judgment which makes it impossible to prescribe a second sense of rehabilitation in this law, and is therefore considered more appropriate to the concept of rehabilitation. Amendment 2 to Article 26 of Article 26(4) is amended as follows: ‘Agreement of the judgment of the Office for Prosecution of Convicts and State Lawyers may appeal to the competent court within three days of the adoption of the decision. The Court of Justice will decide on the appeal within three days’ Reason in order to achieve the purpose of the execution of this criminal and legal sanctions and the protection of the social community it is necessary to lay down the right to appeal by a State lawyer for a decision delaying or suspending the work for the common good. Amendment 3 to Article 27 of Article 27(2) of the wording and shall be deleted for a maximum period of 30 days, and paragraph 4 at the end of the sentence shall, instead of the point, be inserted and the words shall be added except for the reasons set out in paragraph 1 of this Article and shall be explained by the delay or termination of the work for the general good at large for the purpose of the acute illness of convicts or significant deterioration of chronic illness shall not be limited to a period of 30 days and, therefore, shall be proposed to delete this period and to correct paragraph 4. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44843	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44844	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. At the very beginning of the debate, I would like to point out that the HDZ Club will support the final proposal of the Prosecution Act. The proposed Prosecution Act is a novelty in the Croatian legislation preceded by the project "Supply for the Development of the Testing System", which is the result of the development of a 5-year strategy for the establishment of the Croatian National Prosecution System, which is part of the justice reform strategy and part of the national strategy. The establishment of the Croatian National Prosecution System is harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the EU, and is also modernising, i.e. making it possible to create a more humane and fairer criminal justice system. In relation to the perpetrator of a criminal offence, the trial is a regime of supervised freedom during which procedures are conducted aimed at reducing the risk of re-initiating a criminal offence. The proposed law also prescribes probative transactions and persons who, when deciding on criminal prosecution during criminal proceedings and during the execution of criminal sanctions and measures and parole, may be involved in the probation proceedings, and for the first time, participation in the organisation of assistance and support of victims of the crime and of the injured person, the family of the victim, which has been neglected in previous regulations. The person, the perpetrator of the crime, is voluntarily involved in the trial with the possibility of active participation in the selection of the content of the individual programme and shall be guaranteed the protection of fundamental human rights, respect for human dignity, prohibition of discrimination on any basis, protection of the personality and confidentiality of data and the right to appeal. The individual treatment programme shall include pedagogical, health, psychological, social and other professional procedures and methods appropriate to the characteristics and needs of the perpetrators, aimed at eliminating, or reducing the risk of re-increasing the criminal offence and harming the community, the other person or himself. This means that the individual treatment programme must be tailored to each individual involved in the sampling against his personality, personal opportunities, health conditions, professional qualifications and living circumstances. The proposed law on the conduct of probational work at the Ministry of Justice shall set up a probation authority with the offices for probation in the counties, which shall report on the conduct of a risk assessment and the need for perpetrators of a criminal offence, the execution of a conditional sentence with protective supervision and the work for the general good at freedom, the reporting of the court on the implementation of an individual programme of conduct, the supervision of the enforcement of precautions and the implementation of special obligations and measures with regard to home imprisonment, the supervision of the paroled person and the participation in the organisation of psychosocial assistance and support of victims, victims' families and perpetrators would be carried out by public officials of high professional education in the second degree, and the exceptional first degree from relevant specialist areas of social pedagogy, social work, psychology or other social or humanistic professions with work experience and competences for the work with perpetrators of criminal offences. It is certainly expected that the establishment of a trial will increase the number of paroled perpetrators and a longer period of probation, thereby limiting the increase of the number of prisoners in the prison system. Then, more effectively protect the social community by carrying out quality supervision of the paroled and better ensure that people who have been released from prison are better provided after a penalty. For all the above mentioned club, the Croatian Democratic Community supports the adoption of the Prosecution Act as well as the amendments of the Committee on Justice and the Legislatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44845	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44846	Thank you, Mr. President, dear secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I will immediately say that the SDP club will support this final proposal of the Prosecution Act. We consider it quality and, in fact, if all these solutions are financially followed, and they are already already existing and well-known for the better part, then it will certainly be this bill, or the law, when it comes into force, to its purpose. This is where we colleagues and colleagues see people from our penalty system. They come at the end of the ballad. From the day of the crime, from the search, from police activities, investigative activities, prosecutions, trials, appeal proceedings, this is the case if there is a conviction of unconditional punishment pouring into the prison system. Citizens aren't happy with our prison system. People who work in the prison system are overloaded, too few for such a huge prison population. What is the structure of convicted persons? There are also citizens who are not satisfied. There is often the impression of the most serious crimes, murders, serious physical injuries. There's very little economic crime. They're the exception. So, all those other crimes, which are most often drug abuses, we recently talked about, are being poured into the prison system by such convicts, and because of inadequate criminal policies, it's ineffective. So, basically, this opportunity that we could even talk meaningfully about probation and its purpose, finally I think the time has come to change criminal justice policy. That also means criminal justice reform. I will remind myself of the novels in 2003, when we had the most significant crime of abuse of the credentials. All this that's happening today with Peveco2, the other big companies, all of a sudden the dubious loss of workers, they don't get paid. It didn't come overnight. But that's why everywhere in Europe is responding. There are crimes that are appropriate precisely for the modern way of management, for the market economy. We have socialist incriminations and we don't have people in the prison system convicted of being there. And the people in the prison system are dealing with people they see for themselves and see in this solution that they will find themselves free. At least controlled freedom. Our prison system in order to gain that meaning, first of all we need to edit the entire criminal justice system. For the prison system to be reserved those perpetrators, those persons who are truly at the top of social danger. It is those who cause great social consequences for the individual, for the country and for the family of those unhappy individuals. And they stay out of reach and procedure. And that's why it's an opportunity to talk about it. But close our ropes to people for whom surely society can react differently. See what we're in right now. Citizens are dissatisfied and often speak, and that is one big remark to courts that courts often pronounce conditional sentences, to demand a tightening of sanctions. For certain criminal offences, however, let it not be necessary to respond to prison sentences, but rather to measures of probation, a conditional conviction with protective supervision that has existed since ancient times in our Penal Code but has not been pronounced, because they have not been secured by enforcement, not only enforcement rules, but they have not been provided with the means to bring those sanctions back to life. It's just that one. And now we see a whole series of jobs that are given to certain people who have to be in this sampling system, in order for the prison system to be released. So I'll do it again. For a genuine reform of the criminal trial, there is no real reform unless we have a crime of abuse of faith. If someone's doing business and stays in debt and piles up that debt, he's out there being held accountable. I'm going back to the penalty system now. In the early 1990s, since the Constitution states that forced labor is prohibited, then someone remembered that even prisoners should not work. However, labour and labour obligations in prisons are a condition of renaissance and rehabilitation, especially for those convicted of years of imprisonment. However, the possibilities for such prisoners to work have been reduced, and the provision in the law is then being studied in such a way. However, by passing the Law on the execution of a prison sentence, it began essentially reforming our penalty system. It should also be noted that this was a law that was an example of many transition countries. We weren't afraid back then in 2002 to introduce a system judicialization. Therefore, the possibilities are precisely for courts to control the part of the executive authority that is being examined in a penal system. However, we have a paradox that often the judges were not at the level, ate because of the burden, and so, the task entrusted by the law, but the people of the system, given their years of experience, given the special subspecies they have, were better graded by those persons. And then when there were some cases that were worried, not to say shocked the public, it was precisely from the wrong evaluation of the judge's execution, not the system itself. That's why I want to point out this, too, that for the good work of the penal system, the depoliticalization of the system is crucial. It began with these very processes by passing a new law, it should be even more improved by the day of today. Let's think back to those 1990s. I was pleased to hear what Mr. Secretary of State said here, and we also heard these public statements by Mr. Shimonovic, that again some of the values that were neglected in the prison system, suggest that it was a prisoner person, a convict to whom not all the obligations of society were ended by condemnation, but rather that his or her appearance in prison had been made new obligations to such a person, which means that the state, i.e. society as a whole, to care for such persons in a way that enables them to return usefully to society. And all that we see here if it follows the financial resources that will actually come true and what is usually the ideal of all the penalists once the doors of the prison or the penitentiary for those persons are closed and the doors of the society, because then we will see it very soon in return, or again in some penitentiary, surely another time to someone with stricter conditions and a stricter system. Therefore, abandoning the idea that prison, that imprisonment is only a punishment, just to retaliate society as a social condemnation to a convict as a rebuke that society disagrees with what a certain person has committed, is not a good way to get out of the growing crime rate. But also a society that is certainly within itself, which has not capitulated before crime and criminals knows in the poorer conditions of life and work both the states and every citizen knows what's important and what doesn't matter. Now there's Mr. Minister, and I want to repeat, although I'm familiar with it at the SDP Club, I know it's in the making of a new Penal Code. But that really possession of drugs other crimes in which society can react in a different way should introduce stricter punishment for the right drug manufacturers, the heavy perpetrators of criminal offences. We need a life sentence, too. Those must be the exceptions. They have always existed, but society has the right to defend itself against those and those whom no correction will help and who, even in prison for all time, are threatening to commit such or similar crimes when they are found at large. And society has the right to defend itself against such persons. They're fortunately an exception, but there are. And as long as there are people who kill other people by order as if they're doing the most harmless work, our citizens' minds and hearts know that these people deserve a life sentence. That's one thing. So such punishment appears in these cases as justified, as protective but equally just. In such a way, when we book penal institutions, prisons and penitentiary facilities for the really most serious violations of socially dangerous behaviors that are defined as criminal acts, we will have the possibility that even the staff in the prison system are more committed to them, that these persons are then found after a certain time and in the trial system and that repair is really possible. And we really believe in the SDP club that it's possible to fix and fix for the better, not just make it worse as it is often in politics. Here, by supporting the adoption of this final proposal for a law on probation, we expect as soon as possible to find a proposal for the Penal Code here on the constituency benches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44847	Thank you. Mr. Miljenko Doric on behalf of the HNS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44848	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party has already given support to the proposer in its first reading of this proposal. We're glad that in the meantime, you've accepted a large number of proposals to correct that text of the law and I think you've done a good job. The Croatian People's Party will absolutely support you in the vote on Friday, but we want to be honest here and the Croatian citizens to admit that it is a major experiment by the Croatian judiciary, that the implementation of this law will show whether the Croatian judiciary is ready for major changes, whether the Croatian judiciary is ready for the necessary changes that await us by entering the European Union and whether it is ready to realise and all that Croatian citizens expect from it in one legal state. Fellow Members and colleagues, probation as a conditioned and supervised freedom of perpetrators of criminal offences is successfully carried out in many European countries. The model we decided on seems to have been informed by the minister at first reading that he is most similar to the British model and the secretary of state told us and we believe that it is so that the sampling system is three times cheaper than it is serving a prison sentence. However, the fact is that we must initially decide on relatively large investments in the system to make it work. We are pleased that the International Community wants to help and help us with a number of projects related to this matter. And here I would just like to repeat what the citizens of the period between first reading and second reading have been coming to us and I want the clear minister to hear the questions that we have been asked. First of all, our citizens are wondering if the new law provides protection to the social community from the perpetrators who will be clear on parole? Will the new law ensure more quality resociation and reintegration in the community and thus prevent relapse, repetitive criminal acts? Whether it will also help victims, or their families, in a way. Why do citizens ask us this, why citizens are skeptical about this, and some of my predecessors are obviously for justifiable reasons. We all know that judges have been quite often opting for parole for the past few years, so under protective supervision there were, say, 50 people in 2002 to increase that number to over 200 a year, two days ago. In 2002, it seems to me to be only 15, 16 people to be over 300 people in the last year. So a 20-fold increase. But in addition to that there were certain troubles, certain tragic events related to... , with repetitive criminal acts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Obviously, there have been misjudges, risks, and this law has certainly been aimed at improving all these elements, all these shortcomings that have been seen so far. You will allow me, however, to read something that we did not discuss very much, which we consider very important in the club of the Croatian People's Party. I'll read you the articles in Articles 31 and 32 of this final bill. At the request of a penitentiary or prison, the Department of Testing to the Place of residence shall carry out the work of preparing the acceptance after the release. In cooperation with the convict, the probation office will develop a programme of implementation and supervision of the obligations set out in a conditional discharge decision and deliver it to the executing judge. The institutions and other legal persons in which those convicted fulfil the obligations laid down by a conditional discharge decision shall notify the Office of probation of the execution of the obligations. The Court of Justice shall report to the Court of Justice on the implementation of the obligations and the conduct of the supervision of the paroled convict. I'm only reading this to point out to you colleagues and colleagues how complex the system is, how much perfect coordination is needed between all these subjects. Croatian society does not adorn a systematic approach, nor does it adorn the ability of coordination and organization. Unfortunately, sometimes neither the expertise nor the morality of those who enforce such and similar laws. For this reason, there is no unwarranted skepticism of some of our citizens, and we need to convince them that the intentions and objectives of this law are still positive, and that we expect a significant shift in the Croatian judiciary to be made. Already, one of the predecessors mentioned other negatives related to the current system, where those convicts who had certain connections, certain protections, or could financially support certain special privileges in the prison system, certainly something for conviction and something that we must permanently resolve. What is positive, and I would really like to tell the citizens that they must trust us together, to try to implement this law, is that individual actions programmes will be developed. So individual programs, for each convict. This will clearly avoid the risk factor, so we will certainly see who we really can, and who we cannot allow to be on conditioned, or... Freedom. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What should further be said is that the law provides for permanent professional training of officials. That's necessary. New people enter the system, need to be educated, those who are longer in the system should be clearly complemented by their knowledge. It's something that's once again for every praise. What we would also like to praise is the fact that we in the Assembly will receive regular annual reports on the implementation of this law. We'll be able to clearly look for any corrections then, if we see that the system is in something deficient. And our request from the Minister of Justice in front of the Croatian People's Party would be that you may not wait for Mr. Ministers for a year if you notice the shortcomings at first, come with a report to the Government and to the Parliament and much earlier. This seems logical to us to avoid any gaps that may occur in such a relatively long period when it comes to such a complex and complex system. So, in front of the Croatian People's Party support, but also a request to oversee supervisors in the first stage anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44849	Thank you. We have one notice that today at 13:30 a.m. the Committee on Education, Science and Culture will be held in room 233/2 "Eugen Quaternika" hall. Notify the chairman of the Board, Peter Selem. So today at 13:30. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44850	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, ministers with associates. The set of these laws that are before us today I am looking at in the context of chapter 23 of the follow-up to the opening, I hope soon to negotiate the chapters of the judiciary and freedom. Whether the British and the Dutch will give in, we will see, but I would really like Croatia through its legislative legislation to welcome that day ready. I will support this bill because I consider it good and necessary for Croatia. I'll make two suggestions, Mr. Secretary, but I'm on my way with one warning. I want to believe that everyone in the government is aware of the implementation of this package of amendments to judicial laws should secure money in the state budget, and that there will be no bans on employment, restrictions or anything that could prevent these serious changes in the judicial system. That it won't happen to say government or that it won't happen that the government agrees to hire 81 state veterinary inspectors without allowing you and not granting you money to set up a probationary system. That would be a disaster. My first proposal applies, and given that this law provides for and implements the precautionary measures, when they are said, my first proposal to the minister would be the following. More than 30% of the people in the prison system are actually detainees and we have this situation in Croatia for years. Comparing this with other European Union countries, twice as many prisoners as prisoners. In our legal system, there are provisions that provide for the possibility of giving a precaution instead of detention. They've been stabilized so far so that they're a replacement for detention, and it seems to me they've rarely said themselves. Croatia has a serious problem running from the judiciary. It's at the time of the investigation. So already at the moment when the State's Attorney's Office is launching investigative actions, people suddenly remember dual citizenship or any other reason they flee the territory of the Republic of Croatia. I know the solutions to the Criminal Procedure Act that should apply if I am not mistaken in 2011 after these changes have been made. But I think it would be necessary, Mr. Minister, for the state's attorney, for us, and perhaps the Supreme Court president to consider a joint meeting and a change of conduct in practice, not just courts, but also a state's attorney. DESCRIPTION of precautionary measures, the imposition of precautionary measures, in particular the withdrawal of travel documents, the imposition of a ban on leaving the place of residence and the introduction of mandatory reporting after the adoption of this Act, use more frequently, thereby reducing the safe number of prisoners in the prison system, but not only as a replacement for detention, but indeed as a safeguard in those cases of serious criminal offences where there is no risk of influence on witnesses and destruction of evidence, but rather as a precautionary measure to flee the country. If it takes a formal legal basis, for one such serious agreement, I can even refer to the proposal to amend the law on criminal proceedings, but I believe that you and I will agree that a lot of this will need to be done, that a lot of discussion is done to apply this paper after the formation of the Testing Authority not only in the Croatian courts, but I also believe that the state's attorney must have the precautionary measures from the beginning, at the moment of opening an investigation, to protect the investigation on the one hand, and on the other hand, it is the cheapest thing for the state to protect itself from the possibility of escape and abandoning not only the territory of the state but also the hiding. And secondly, work for the common good. The number of measures put forward is constantly growing, but I am constantly warned by judges that there are too few legal persons who are interested in receiving such people. This law only mentions the fact that a contract will be concluded with legal persons where there will be no work for the common good and other rules on this matter. I suggest that in the Rules of Procedure, you go with the content, how a list of legal persons will be drawn up to carry out this work, but in a two-way way. First, that legal persons can apply themselves, secondly that the Ministry is going with a call for potential legal persons, that the annual, two-year or three-year list is mandatory, think about it, and think about the obligation of legal firms owned by the Republic of Croatia to be on the list, as well as those local ones. No matter how hard we try, and the judiciary to replace fines with work for the common good, no matter how good and educational measure that can sometimes have more results than 2, 3 or 6 months in prison, if we don't have enough legal persons to monitor these measures, we won't have any more serious shifts. It seems to me that a large number of legal persons are completely uninformed about such an opportunity, that they do not show interest because they do not have the right and sufficient amount of information, and that they are despised. If you do not include such provisions in the rulebook you are in your positions today, you have one vision of it. People change, there will be opportunities for personal decision, and I'm afraid that such freedom without regulations in the Regulation itself could lead to words and hear what we can do no one will. And when I am not now burdening this final bill with amendments in that part of the amendment, there is a possibility that this part of the Regulation should be prescribed as mandatory conduct by both the Ministry and the Administration themselves. And I'll finish repeating the proposal. The precautionary measure in Croatia is not used enough, it is not used in the opening of the investigation, especially at the State's Attorney's Office, in my view it is not necessary to wait for next year, you see the possibility as soon as possible of receiving a recent conversation with Mr. Bajic, the President of the Supreme Court, to make changes in this area in the sense that the rules start to be respected as soon as possible, that such practice is changed as possible, because I think this will first give results to the burdened prison system. That it will first draw at least 10% of those who are now in custody and could be dealt with in this way, and you know very well if there were at least 10% reduction in detainees in the prison system using precautionary measures in accordance with this Act. So, I will support this bill of law in the hope and faith that justice in money, exemption from employment, will have priority over veterinary inspectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44851	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44852	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So, in front of us is in the second reading of the Proposed Law on Prosecution, it introduces a trial into our criminal justice system, which includes a wide range of sanctions and interventions to the perpetrators of criminal offences. It is precisely in the process of modernising our criminal justice system, as well as harmonising domestic criminal legislation with EU legislation, the justice reform strategy has identified the need to establish a sampling system. In Article 1 of this Act, the trial is defined as a conditioned and supervised freedom of perpetrators of criminal offences during which probation officers carry out procedures aimed at reducing the risk of the perpetrator repeating a criminal offence. So, given that the system of testing draws its source in Anglo-Saxon law, it is important that its introduction does not violate the coherence of our criminal justice system, above all I mean its compliance with two basic laws, the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, which I am convinced will not happen, I am convinced. On the contrary, I believe that the introduction of this institute, so the testing institute, will reflect positively on it. The law defines that the trial will primarily result in the removal of the accommodation capacity of the prison system through a reduction in the number of prisoners. Reduction of the risk of relapses through rehabilitation and reintegration in the society of perpetrators of crime, better co-operation with the social community and its better protection. It is also important that, in fact, for the first time, the aid and support of the victim of the crime and the injured person and the family of the victim and the family of the perpetrators will be regulated. As for our prison system from year to year, there is a trend in the growth of prisoners and detainees. It is expected that through the sampling system, it will affect the slowdown of the increase in the number because, among other things, it will create conditions for the regulation of a larger number of alternative sanctions implemented in the community. Today, the applicable Penal Code prescribes only 2 such sanctions and these are conditional sentences with protective supervision that is prescribed for up to 5 years and work for the general good at large 10 to 60 days which replaces the prison sentence of up to 6 months. Furthermore, this law will allow for the expression of measures in the home, supervision and support of prisoners who have been assigned to an investigative prison, which will also result in a reduction in the number of prisoners, is estimated by about 300 per year, which has already been spoken about and has been discussed by the minister in his statements and spoke. So, with a reduction in the number of persons in prisons of certain financial savings, one day in prison costs 3 times more than one day in probation. No less important effect of introducing a sampling system is certainly the exemption of defendants and convicts from the negative impact of the prison environment. Finally, I will say that, compared to the first reading that was conducted here in the Parliament in June this year, this law is further corrected on the very trail of debates, remarks, proposals made in the debates of individual representatives, in discussions on parliamentary committees, as well as debates in the professional public. And for that very reason, I will support the adoption of this law on probation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44853	Thank you. And final secretary of state, Mr. Zoran Piculjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44854	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First of all, I thank you on behalf of the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for an extremely constructive and know-how debate. It's not really a phrase, it's also a debate for us, and you've all underlined it between the two readings, on the first reading, during the first reading, it's actually pointed to how this law should be done. As regards the amendments he has tabled, which resulted in discussions at the HDZ club, and later on parliamentary committees we accept all amendments of the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Law, they significantly improve the text. It seems with small interventions we get a lot and thanks for the effort. In the context of the debate that, today's debates, I also think that there will be no problem and that we know, we understand the need for education in the system and it has already practically begun. This is from the debate of the Club of HNS Representatives and the need for possibly systematic and periodic reports we will periodically report to both the Government and this House regarding the problems that will arise in this system, the newly established system. In addition to specific proposals, Mr Lesar's well-respected representative is also proposed to enter into the Prosecution, Probation Way Regulation as a mandatory content and list, and then the way in which the contract is concluded, we will certainly do so in that road of one-way identification of persons and the search for legal persons who will carry out those tasks in fact make it a two-way and professional road. There will also be a meeting related to measures, affirmation of precautions in the Croatian judicial system, and the meeting will certainly be held as soon as possible. That's what this law really represents, and it's what I think all 3 clubs have highlighted, it's one big responsibility and one need for its implementation will require funds. The funds are secured, they will require professional, professional employment and implementation which will be systematic and which will not have any effects in the short term, but we are quite sure that with such access and only with such access in the next year, two, three would have a system and a better prison system and a very good European probation system. We thank you once again for your discussion and contribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44855	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. We're moving on to the final proposal of the Prosecution Act. This was a second reading, P.Z.E. number 332. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Justice. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendment committees and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law, in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am therefore voting on the final proposal of the Prosecution Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. This bill was adopted unanimously with 113 votes, along with amendments adopted. We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences and offences.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44858	Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs. Croatia has so far not had a particularly regulated enforcement of sanctions for minors. For me, the real question is not why is this law passed, but why has it not been passed before? Contemporary penological concepts are absolutely unambiguous in the fact that the specificities of minors should be taken into account in the maintenance of the sentence. This is not only a question of humane relations with minors but also the success of their retraining and, in this sense, minor social risks, this leads to their better and easier reintegration into society and reduces the possibility of relapses, i.e. the re-enactment of criminal offences. This law guarantees, among other minors, that the process of enforcement of juvenile sanctions and measures should not endanger their human dignity in particular in view of their vulnerability, their lifetime and the fact that they need to be brought up. It is also guaranteed that the enforcement of sanctions and measures is implemented in a manner that is individualised and adapted to a minor, and the measures to be taken in enforcement must be consistent with modern scientific understanding and comparative experience. For each minor, an individual programme should be drawn up, tailored to its specific needs, or risks. An integral part of the individual programme and the planning of assistance and after-resent support to reduce the possibility of re-initiating a criminal offence, i.e. other risky behaviours. Finally, firearms as the most difficult form of coercion towards minors in the execution of a juvenile prison are not allowed to apply unless it is necessary to defend them. The adoption of this law also constitutes a harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union. And I can say that in a formal and legal way, but really and in a context of content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44859	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44860	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. I would agree first and foremost in your initial assessment that it is a very important question, why we have so far not had a single regulation that would regulate the way sanctions and measures imposed on minor perpetrators. The impression that the state remained deaf to one very important document, it was the National Programme for Youth Action, which was brought there in 2002, also discussed in the Croatian Parliament, where one of the topics covered by this unique national one would say not only by a document defining the situation, but also by an action plan over a hundred measures, whether the question of society's relationship with risks leading to an increase or in general to the occurrence of juvenile delinquency, i.e. the committing of criminal and criminal acts by minors. It was obvious that several years had to pass, poor statistics were to occur, especially after 2006, and there should have been a warning from the European Union level, to be accessed like this once. In any case, it is to praise the Ministry of Justice's efforts that it has included in a package of laws that define judicial reform in Croatia, because it finally covers those white empty areas that were among several legal regulations that applied to minors. We must first of all be aware that the social circumstances which are an objective fact do not contribute to the reduction of the number of crimes committed by minors, but even more to expect that number to grow. It's more of a reason, it might already be some common places, but it needs to be repeated. The general economic crisis favours just increasing situations, the number of situations young people are tempted to commit a criminal or criminal offence. It also spills over to the stability of the family. Many parents come home with layoffs, come home without pay, despair, don't know how to get out of the situation. In such circumstances, children feel deeply for their parents. Under such circumstances, topics arise that I cannot discuss with my parents. They're estranged, they're lonely. This directly affects the increase in age - old violence. These days, we're witnessing eclectic examples. Unfortunately, the last year brings from the murder of Luke Rico to this latest in Rijeka, in fact, a series of evidence that society is unable to react on time and that young people are exposed to various forms of violence. Sometimes by considering the possibilities of their defense, they themselves are able to commit violence and are able to step themselves into a crime scene. But we also need to know that in our infection, we have talked about it several times already, the level of availability of drugs increases, the level of availability of weapons, that many families are in post-traumatic stress that affects children. Unfortunately, and this is also the assessment of the legislator of this law, and I am glad that in this, the existing system of social care, but also the institutions in charge of education or retraining or resocialisation are not sufficiently qualified or able to react in a way that recognises and eliminates so-called. the forms of predetermined behaviour, and then that the entire system involved in the execution of criminal sanctions, actually deals with young people only when crimes have already been committed and where there is actually no prevention, and then a miracle is expected from the criminal sanctions system. It is a miracle that neither expect nor gain, as long as the efforts of the Ministry of Justice are not harmonised, as a proposer, or government as a whole and all the resolutions dealing with this problem, including social care. It is impossible to expect that this law will also contribute to reducing the number of crimes committed by minors, unless the welfare system is strengthened. If, therefore, monitoring at the level of the social care centre does not strengthen and raise to a higher level, and on the other hand, if education institutions and training centres do not further team up and if no additional equipment is provided. This applies in particular to these two centers that we have, i.e. the Institute, in Turopolje and Požega for which, according to the information I have, we can say, they are not at the top of the equipment and quality. Furthermore, many breeding centres are on the verge of human disasters. The fact is that we lack expert staff, especially psychologists, but also a large number of breeders who are able to work more directly and more directly with individuals already in the system after measures have been made. It is good, therefore, that we have such a regulation and the Croatian People's Party club will certainly support it. But it is not good if he remains alone and remains only in this space of execution, and is not harmonised with all those who are paid, invited and legally designed to act on prevention, identifying especially peer violence, especially individual forms of unacceptable behavior and, therefore, if the whole system is not harmonised. In this respect, it would be good if both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Social Care had closer forms of cooperation, that there was no cohesion, that there was no mutual misunderstanding. But we must also be aware that this is a question that cannot be saved budgetally. This is a question behind which the state's determination to invest significant financial resources must stand, because prevention, especially when it comes to young people's interests, especially when it comes to underage persons, is not priced. In this regard, I announce that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party will support your bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44861	Thank you. It's the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44862	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the law that is before us, the Law on the execution of criminal sanctions for minors because minor perpetrators of criminal offences are certainly a special group within the law enforcement and perpetrators of criminal offences. It's a particularly vulnerable group, mentally immature. Almost always are they I would say product of social conditions and social environments in which they grow up, and for which they themselves are not responsible or not guilty. They therefore certainly deserve a special arrangements for the enforcement of criminal sanctions imposed in criminal and criminal proceedings. It is true that there was a legal gap in this area, although not a complete blank because the Law on Juvenile Courts was in force, which governs this area in principle but there were no provisions which would fully regulate the procedure and the necessary actions for the execution of criminal sanctions, and this seemed to be the basis of the rules adopted under the former law of '97. suspended by the adoption of the Law on Juvenile Courts. So certainly I would agree with anyone who says it was necessary to pass this law because of a certain legal void, because of the specific population to which these provisions apply. But then, they were settled under some other regulations, which was not a good solution. Therefore, as I said, the necessity was to adopt this law on the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences and offences governing the way sanctions, measures, safeguards imposed on minors and offences. And under this underage, according to this law, minors and senior minors are considered. So, a person up to the age of 21. Furthermore, the adoption of this law is in line with the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union, so the principles of documents of the Council of Europe and of the United Nations and of the European Commission, therefore of the European Union, are incorporated in this law. This law provides for two groups of sanctions. Therefore, those who fall under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, so on welfare and the part that falls under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice. It is especially good that our criminal laws and criminal laws provide for an entire range of sanctions that are possible in relation to the specificities of minors of various conditions, various psycho sociological characteristics. Therefore, this law provides for the implementation of specific obligations, a reference to a centre for education, measures for increased care and supervision, increased care and supervision with a living room in a educational institution, a reference to a educational institution and a special educational institution which is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, and the enforcement of measures of reference to a educational institution under the Law and the punishment of juvenile prison, which is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice. Especially because we keep good ones are these special obligations where once again a broad circle, from the apology of minors to repairing and compensation of the damage done, the obligation to attend school, to engage in work in certain organisations, to refrain from visiting certain places, mandatory treatment of addiction, etc. which allows everything in the absence of sanctions one wide range of options for individualisation under special circumstances and conditions and mental and physical minors. What is ensured by this law, therefore now at the level of the law, and not more sublegal acts, is to guarantee that minors are protected by the fundamental rights laid down in the Constitution, international contracts, the Law on Juvenile Courts, and that the restriction of those rights is permitted only exceptionally and within the limits necessary for the purpose of carrying out sanctions. The legal protection of minors is also prescribed. In particular, minors are guaranteed the confidentiality of information and identity. In particular, measures prohibiting the endangerment of their human dignity have been laid down. Therefore, and the fact that a minor should primarily be treated as a child because the purpose is mainly expressed in the sanctioning of minors. Its ultimate goal must be to resociate it. The responsibility of the welfare centre has also been determined and has been placed in charge of the protection of personal and property rights and the interests of minors. It is also determined that enforcement of sanctions and measures must be implemented in a manner adapted to a minor. Therefore, it is reiterated and emphasises the individualisation of the programme in the conduct of criminal sanctions on minors, which is extremely important to create groups according to a specific assessment, i.e. diagnostics of the needs and levels of risk of minors by a multidisciplinary team of experts, who will then categorize a minor in the group whether he needs increased care and supervision, whether he needs additional sanctions, whether he needs to be rewarded with benefits, etc., and so on. It is also defined which means of use are allowed in relation to a minor, and this is limited to two means of coercion only in case of active resistance. Of course, since the concept of minors, according to this law, falls to both older and younger minors, so we are talking about people up to the age of 21. So these are persons who commit and possibly commit serious crimes, here are also provisions on the execution of a juvenile prison sentence. And the Penal Code governing the execution of a fine for minors has specific provisions for this population, but this law now specifically determines those measures and specificities in relation to minors. And of course I would agree that this law will remain only one law, unless it is provided primarily with funds, and then with the capacity of personnel to implement this law, to monitor, the effort to individualise the programme. But as well as bringing our prisons and penitentiary into a state that all these measures that are specifically prescribed for minors can then be fully implemented. In relation to the bill, therefore to the text of the law in the first reading, I must commend and express my satisfaction to the Ministry of Justice for what has been stated in the debate here at the plenary session, so many of the provisions have been incorporated into the final text. Here I would say first of all that is an extremely good provision that is embedded in the final text, and in order to prevent any decision on the extent of the ban, let's say visiting certain places has to be delivered to the police station, or to contact the police, so that the police can also control it. Equally, the program helps the family and in any case also prevents the police from reporting to minors. So there must be co-operation between the Social Care Centre, the penitentiary, the prison and the police. It is also good to set out Article 30, which speaks of restrictive measures. Because as we said in this population there really is, a part of that population has gone astray, so to speak. It can be resocialized, and it is the most valuable thing that can happen. But of course, there are also persons in this population who really abuse, disrupt work with others, and therefore it was necessary to introduce a provision on tight measures, on certain redundancies, of course always with respect for human rights, and so I see the adoption of all proposals by the Ombudsman for children who care that no right of minors is denied. And finally, on behalf of the HNS Club, a colleague spoke about it, and I repeat that we will not successfully implement anything unless we train social care centres, so it is good that it is established in this, in the final text and control regulations by these centres and if we do not provide sufficient material resources. I would like to express here perhaps only the regret or perhaps misunderstood proposal of the First Reading Committee, which was not accepted for reasons of being based on the reasoning in order to repeat the provision of Article 13 in Article 14. What has been warned is that Article 14(4) states that a minor can be temporarily placed in a social care facility until insemination. The debate was in the sense that in some way social care centres were bound not to put it as a possibility, because often because of lack of material conditions, such minors were then not kept anywhere but released back into their family which was not in the meantime arranged in a way that such a minor would have to return to it, and then it was a very likely relapse. We have discussed in this sense that these articles must ensure the conditions for a minor to remain in a kind of social care institution until independence, in order not to return him to miles of crime or poor social conditions, and thus favoured relapses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44863	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44864	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support the adoption of a proposal for a law on the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences and offences, deeming it indeed to be filled in by one legal void. However, at the beginning, I must conclude, saying on behalf of the SDP Club, that there is no claim in the explanation of the applicants who believe that the implementation of this Act does not require the provision of additional financial resources. For all good things to cost, we consider this to be a good legal solution, and special means should be provided for. In particular, I'll say that later, in an analysis of certain provisions that are good solutions to juvenile prison. So here in the law provides for a special institution for minors, a juvenile prison, and only a secondary note is that it is possible, such a single sentence, a juvenile sentence of imprisonment, and in special departments of the penitentiary, however, we know what is the situation in our penitentiary, in our prisons. YES, such conditions are often subject to the evaluation of the European institutions where Croatia then pays high compensation and the problem is not solved. On several occasions, Croatia was sentenced to pay compensation to people who are executing prison sentences, and it was also imposed on Croatia to fix the situation, but it did not improve because the government did not provide the prison system with the necessary funds. This Law imposes higher standards in respect of the execution of penalties and other sanctions imposed on minors. They assume, such standards, when it comes to the execution of a juvenile prison sentence, special standards on banning, which also introduces the Convention on the Prohibition of Torture and Tortres in the prison system that applies to adults, and then especially to minors. We are particularly sorry at the SDP Club for why this is not particularly apostropheeded in this final draft law on the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences and offences, when it comes to standards which, in particular in prison areas, are punishable by juvenile prisons, these specific standards. Because despite the fact that this is not particularly highlighted in the law, it is Croatia's obligation under the international Convention, but also under the Law on the enforcement of sanctions for prison sentences for adults. You see there at first in the protection of dignity that speaks equally of what spatial conditions must be met. Expansive conditions in the execution of sanctions and for them to be successful are of crucial importance, unfortunately here's a report from the Ombudsman's staff report that situation has not been improved, the government has on several occasions promised to provide the funds needed for the prison system, little or no in this regard has been done. Capacities have increased by the imagination of staff who are often from the chapels of prisons, namely, to note that soulcare was introduced in 2002 to our prisons and to the penitentiary, that often the chapels work in the dormitory. The rooms that serve the resociation are often used to create dormitory, since prison staff and the penitentiary are nowhere to place those persons. And it was already said earlier about the proposal for a law on probation, that this is precisely the result of the inadequate legal policy that is then felt and which is then evident in our penal system. However, when we talk here about this bill on the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors for crimes and offences, then we have to be really concerned and we can't stop the fact that the crimes committed by minors, and this is the most severe crime, brutal murder, severe wounding that they are still on the rise. This is what we see from the annual reports on the work of the State's Attorney's Offices in 2009. Every time, the public is horrified by such insolence, such cold-blooded delicacies that commit young people often to young or younger people, and the alarm for society as a whole, and especially for the state. It's a signal that many things in the country aren't what they're supposed to be. That's enough to say that our society is pretty much sick. It says that people of young people do not feel safe, and often this aggression in them is a manifestation of some justified or some kind of attack of irrationality that they can possibly expect, and so there seems to be no end to this youthful aggression because there is no end then to human insecurity. How much society contributes to human security today, how safe we are in the streets, how safe work is, how busy it is, what young people see, lose all values. It simply amazes and worries their cold relationship to what they have done, there is no greater regret. It's a very dangerous behavior that worries, it's a profound conflict of an individual, especially a young man making society. The society that brought down the old values, the new to this day has not built, has not yet built solid institutions. Their parents who often fight for their justice against institutions cannot penetrate and it creates a sense of unwilledness, apathy, but equally social and stately indiscipline. It often goes with each other. People who are used to rebelling against some unfair solutions, against laws that are passed, which are against citizens not for them, such as France. It's a question of simple citizens, how much they are essentially, how much power there is responsible for making citizens not only conscious people but subjects. It then surfaces here with minors, and it's a more complex problem that far, far exceeds our penalty system, which comes in essentially at the end when it's all over, but which then encounters elementary things to help these young people, these young people, and in that prison system, so that they don't accidentally repeat the works. And then they're not given the elemental means so they can work with these minors. Is that normal? The occupier found a young man in prison with a sick old man with a TB, that was a few years ago, that often the primary delinquents support a sentence with already suspended criminals rectivists because they have no place to put them in jail, either here or anywhere. And that the state is simple, the government doesn't care, it pretends that this problem doesn't exist. The Attorney General put it out, but it's already a matter that the minister himself spoke of. Although the Ombudsman was somewhat more specific in that regard, given the inadequate financial resources and the numerous population in the prison system, it is a serious security problem for the state, and first for the people working within the system itself. So, this bill has good solutions, it is working out existing solutions, but that is why certain financial resources need to be provided. If we look a little better at how much financial resources should be provided not only because of the current situation but from this trend in the Annual Report of State Attorneys, then we see how many minors participate in the total mass of crime with acts of violence. That the number was reported, however, in one significant increase from, say, 2004 to 2004, so a few years ago. That the number of crimes committed by minors has just been increased not so much in property delinquents as exactly in acts of violence. And once again, I will look back at inadequate criminal justice reform that is being pronounced and being conducted towards minors. The state continues, therefore, to train strictness on those who are often the victim, and who often find themselves in our own not only penitentiary, education, offices, centres, all those institutions that provide for this bill where they meet with much more experienced ones, and society should react in a different way to them. So, first of all, the treatment measures. We see here, even from the very reasons that the proposer states, that is, the experience of England, where work with minors has taken place, especially in the way and treatment, especially addictions, and with a humane approach that a young man feels that someone cares, and that is then the best way to make him well and get back into society. So where such measures were taken, up to 70% decreased re-renaissance among those persons. But it all requires certain means. Therefore, if we pass laws that are good and high-quality, but for which adequate material support is not provided, they will further disabling and respecting the law because we are passing laws whose application then does not have to be secured and then that is a bad message. This confuses citizens all, and especially those whom society should be very careful. We've seen that it's always a delicate age, first of all, and when they're victims, but I'm worried that this is the occasion that we also turn our own observation here in this sense that society can't reconcile with this situation and that, under urgent circumstances, it's passed the Labour Act in an inadequate way for people, young people, observe that in society, it's coming past the law, past the rules, beyond the ability. Therefore, all that young people do, all these horrors, unfortunately, are the result of an abnormal state in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44865	Thank you. We have one correction, distinguished representative Kruno Markovinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44866	Well, here's what I have to say is that a colleague in her description of the country must have said incorrectly that the state was creating subjects. Well, then I guess those young subjects under that pressure are becoming delinquents, which is not true. Because we need to compare the finally countries of traditional democracy where their young, I guess, subjects are participants in mass murder, so far more is happening than here, which I think should still be.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44867	Thank you. We're going to individual... But we would still have to take care, talk about young people, and we would have to make sure that everything that young people do in a state of society and in a country is a little too serious to say that because there's a lot that's going on since the delinquency, since the war and back here after the war. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So let us be more careful in this. Individual debate, distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44868	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I join all those who think this is a good law and that it should be supported. I have no doubt about it, I think in one very correct and quality way it regulates the area of enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal and criminal offences. In my brief debate, however, I would like to raise several of my doubts concerning only the future application of the law. I think there might be a problem in the near future about that. Unfortunately, it seems to me that it is in some way a job and a specific person, that we have good laws that we unfortunately do not apply. So we have laws that regulate certain issues well, but we also often pretend that they are not there, that is, whenever we can. The law is the most important thing to implement, and as I have said very often, it gets stuck in it. One problem that in some way goes into favor of what I'm saying, so we have a law and its application doesn't get stuck, but it seems to me that it's confused with its inaction. Not long ago, I had in my hands a report from a county M.I.P. for the past year. And I found one very interesting piece of information. He says that in 2007, the police didn't record any single violations of drinking alcohol to minors. In 2008, there were 4, and in the first 6 months of 2009, only one. So, is there anyone who believes in this data? Is there anyone who thinks it's real and that it's real? Well, of course not. And the first thing a man concludes is that the system doesn't work anywhere, that the law isn't implemented. Because when we talk about this problem that's about young people, we have laws, we have very good laws. A law on violations against public order and peace, which says it is forbidden to give alcoholic beverages to minors under 16 years of age. We've got the law. We also have another law that speaks of the ban on selling and serving alcoholic beverages under 18 years of age, the Household Activities and Trade Act. So today, we have a situation where our children say in the polls that 44% of them have a habit of drinking at the weekend, which is no wonder, if we consider this report by the MUP. So, of course, drinking alcohol in young people is not exclusively a repressive apparatus, but if we want to reduce that number, one of the goals should certainly be to prevent young people from easily and easily reaching alcohol despite legal bans. So we have laws to enforce them, not bypass them. It may seem to you that I'm a bit of a detour, but I actually think this is a problem that is very much related to young people and to the fact that we have laws and that this law is good, but I am expressing my suspicion that it will be able to be fully and fully applied. When we look at what is happening among young people today, it is difficult to give an impression like counterpart Anitcevic-Marinovic said that we have kind of failed as a society. Today, we have children who are increasingly consumed by alcohol, children who are increasingly consumed by drugs. The situation that age limits are getting smaller, more suicides, more and more murders. So it seems to me that we young people have failed by our own carelessness and not realizing how important it is to be a role model for their behavior, how important family is and how important prevention is. Well, after all, in the river the other day, we had another violent murder, one young man, Alexander Abramov. And it's terrible how a young life ended. So, both Luka Ric and Alexander Abramov, it's no longer a coincidence, it can no longer be a coincidence, nor an exception, but in fact they're ours to say both black and quite a difficult reality. And the question is, how long are we gonna pretend we don't see it and how long are we gonna be silent by now? Because just to remind you, the SDP club recognized this problem among young people on 16 March as one of the priorities put forward in the parliamentary procedure a proposal to launch a debate in the Croatian Parliament on the topic of increasing violence among young people in the Republic of Croatia. It is December, the end of the year, and the big question is whether this proposal will come at all. I think it's a shame, I think it's a shame, and we should behave a little differently compared to this problem. I don't think that we care as a society and, as counterpart Anticevic-Marinović said, it also shows through the 2010 budget, because unfortunately it is in the preventive programmes that should be aimed at not even making too little money. To be more concrete, as many as 11 million kunas are planned for 2010, less budgets than this year. I think it's worrying and it's sad that it's occurred to someone that at this point in Croatia, when we have an escalation of all these problems that I've been talking about, and who are related to young people, we do something like this. So, saving on kids I think it's absolutely wrong, I'd say it's socially unacceptable. I'm slowly approaching the reason why I have the most doubts about the application of this law. I believe this law should have gone with the reform of the welfare system. Because everything that you've predicted very well through this law, and as far as the work of the social care centre is concerned, I don't think it's really possible in this existing system for the simple reason that we've had to adapt the existing institutional framework of social care and certainly ensure educated personnel, and we know very well how things are with social workers today, with social educators and how much their lack is. So it seems to me that we're going a little bit, although I welcome the adoption of this law, absolutely but we seem to be going a little bit wrong and we are, so we're passing the law and then we're creating conditions in some way for its application. And I believe that we should create preconditions for law enforcement, stop the collapse of the welfare system, implement reform, decentralisation social care, bring it down to a local level where the needs of citizens are actually so young people happen. I think they actually need to be realized there. So we'll have a good law without doubt. So, I don't doubt it, but if we're going to be able to use it and we're going to use it, that's a fundamental question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44869	Thank you. We have two replicas. First is the distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44870	Thank you. Youth violence or the violence of youth groups, their aggression has often been seen psychologically by them as responsible violence at their values even though they understand it in their heads. You mentioned alcohol, and it really shows the hypocrisy of the entire system. We were talking about drugs the other day. Take the young groups, the youth groups then alcohol is far wider even though it is often a combination. But alcohol is more democratic in quotes, it's easier to get it, it's cheaper and it's not really the legal norms that should be implemented. And the aggression of young people and their violence is not directed to others and to the community as such an unadjusted part of people who aggressively treat the community and others because they only feel threatened, even if I say so only in their head. But it's that this aggression is turning, that they're turning it towards themselves. You mentioned the increase in the number of young suicides yourself. It's the same kind of violence, kind of aggression with what it's about self-destruction. It's the ultimate coincidence of escape from reality. It's an escape from life. I think we need to imagine ourselves over that fact. It's one question of a broader debate, I agree which is socio-psychological and what I know all segments don't go into, culturally. But we have the fact that part of the youth wants to escape from an unbearable life the way they experience it, which is why we are responsible all of us who are older.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44871	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44872	Thank you very much. My colleague Jurjevic, I absolutely agree with you, and I don't know if you knew when we were talking about the problem of alcohol among young people that too many young people discovered this research without a problem can lead to alcohol. 88% of primary school students asked how old they were, no one asked them anything, so 88% of young people had no problem having alcohol, and 97% of high school students had very simple alcoholic beverages. So we have laws like I said that unfortunately we don't respect and act very, very irresponsible to young people. Another interesting piece of information I don't know if you knew. When asked about young people where they realize their first experience of drinking 88% of them corresponds to those who have had this experience, 88% responds to it being done in their own family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44873	Thank you. We have another replica, and it is the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44874	When you guys told me about law enforcement, how we have good laws. But there's also a question of their application. Young people in this application, and often as laws and regulations are regulated, especially the Penal Code sees great injustice. The other day, I was approached by a young Bibinac. He spent four years in jail for adding half a shot to one other and breaking into a woodshed and taking two baskets of figs. And he got four years, served everything by law. And what do you think these people don't see being robbed, kidnapped by state property, even by the letter of the law? If these people are possibly even processed, the maximum penalty is 10 years for everyone, you can rob all the treasures of Croatia, only if you don't do it with a killer tool but with a white collar, so as a white collar crime, it's 10 years in prison. And that's what young people see, see that injustice. That's what my colleague Marin was talking about. It causes a great deal of concern. After all, not only the violence they commit, but the auto-destruction, the number of suicides of young people on such a small population. Well, in every country, he'd raise all his strength to his feet, even more when they're auto-destructing. But what are the messages from the media, advertising these big companies? Destroy the competition, beat them to their feet. They're messages, they're values, not fellowship. Let's do some work together. Beat him, be better than the other in everything, in any way. And that is, young people see no responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44875	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44876	Thank you very much. I agree with you colleagues that we have offended and relativeized family education, education at school, and I would say some traditional values in society. And we've failed, we've failed as a society, and they've scheduled state institutions. They didn't realize that this is problem number one in Croatia at the moment. And I agree also the problem is that today we condemn a bully, but we don't condemn the violence that has become said lifestyle, has become a lifestyle and entertainment and even reward. We condemn violence among peers, and we do not investigate enough violence against young people without saying what and how much we do at prevention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44877	We're moving on with an individual discussion. It is up to the distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44878	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, we have before us the Law on the execution of sanctions imposed on minors for crimes and offences, so I will focus my debate on the very proposal of the law, that is, what is regulated by the law itself. And let me start my debate with one thought, one sentence, so we'll all probably agree that the success of the criminality of a society's reaction to the criminality of a minor depends not only on the correct choice of intended criminal sanctions. Namely, every educational measure, every sanction that does not correspond with the personality of a minor, with the personality of minors and the opportunities on which he lives, not only is it not appropriate, but the expected success is generally lacking, there is no resociation, there is no education, there is no prenatality, or there is no normal return of a minor in society. And that is why, and precisely because of this approach and this problem, so this bill should be absolutely supported for the sake of the quality of the processing of institutes relating to the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors and for criminal offences and for offences, on the one hand. And on the other hand, that for the first time, so comprehensively and in one place, so by one law, one regulation worked out almost to detail this matter, although so far we had the practice that it had been laid down by certain laws, and that complete situations in life and in terms of the application of these provisions were also resolved by sublaws. So I absolutely support this bill. The law itself imposes sanctions imposed on minors, as well as on minors in criminal proceedings, so sanctions are systematised to educational measures, prison sentences and security measures. It is also precisely under the provisions of this law that sanctions are imposed on minors and in a misdemeanour procedure, which we again systematise on educational measures, the punishments of juvenile prisons and protective measures. The exceptional importance of the law in question and the need for its adoption are found in the fact that, in the situations in question, criminal and criminal sanctions are imposed on minors, and as a particularly sensitive population within which proceedings should be protected, i.e. guaranteeing the protection of the fundamental rights of minors established on the one hand and in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the rights guaranteed by international contracts and on those already mentioned, mentioned in these discussions, the Law on Courts for Youth. All institutions in terms of development, therefore the law should be examined within the framework of the principles adopted or accepted which are considered to be that the restriction of fundamental rights is permitted only exceptionally and within the limits necessary for the purpose of the execution of sanctions, for the purpose of enforcement of criminal sanctions. In every sense, the envisaged procedure for the enforcement of juvenile sanctions and measures must not endanger their human dignity, so the human dignity of minors. Especially given the age of life, with a fundamental purpose that the juvenile population and in this sense should be brought up for the purpose of resociation, the proper development of the personality of young people and training for normal life. Inadmissible and punishable acts that would pose any threat to the dignity of minors, his abuse, torture, or humiliation. I think that by discussing this law, it is also important to highlight the following, i.e. to point out that, in light of the implementation of this law, it must form an individual programme of conduct based on the process of assessing the needs and degree of risk by a multidisciplinary type of expert. Therefore, a minor under this law must not, or in the sense of the implementation of this law, become just a mere number and a statistical number. Each person has access to himself in a multidisciplinary manner. So each of these persons should and must therefore have a special approach, a special programme to make the very purpose of this law, i.e. to translate these standards into what we want, and of course we want a minor to get out of this life situation as soon as possible, so that the person can get better at any point, both mentally and physically and otherwise, for a normal life that should come after he is no longer exposed to the maintenance of the prison sentence, i.e. not directly influenced by the criminal sanctions itself. In this regard, it is also pointed out that minors are classified as appropriate educational groups. Therefore, the educational groups shall comply with the activities and measures envisaged by the individual programme of action. And this is exactly the individual treatment program I see in this regulation as one particular value, one particular quality, because individual measures of treatment towards each of these young people actually guarantee us with a multidisciplinary approach, so the approach of a different segment, that is, different types of experts dealing with this young person, that the final result will be successful. Successful for a minor, but also successful for our society. Finally, it is also important to point out that this law is also a harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union, and it is very important to stress that this law regulates, i.e. the principles of the Council of Europe documents relating to minors, which the Republic of Croatia has adopted. So they are incorporated into this text of the law, so for the most important reasons, I think the most important thing is what I said in the introduction, but for these reasons, the reasons for harmonising this law absolutely should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44879	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44880	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State and Associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. This law, as we have heard before, will regulate the way in which sanctions, measures and safeguards have been imposed on minors of criminal offences and offences. The enforcement of juvenile sanctions and measures has not been regulated, and we have also heard a special regulation, and it is a particularly sensitive population and a particularly vulnerable population that is protected and protected by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and enjoys special protection. In principle, the Law on Juvenile Courts governs the enforcement of sanctions on minors who have committed a criminal offence, but the enforcement procedure and all actions necessary for the initiation of enforcement are not prescribed. The implementation of specific obligations, a reference to the Centre for Education, measures of increased care and supervision with a living room in some educational institutions, a reference to an educational institution, and a special educational institution remains in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health and Social Care. The enforcement of a reference measure to a criminal institution and the punishment of a juvenile prison carried out in a penitentiary is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice. This Law also constitutes a alignment with the acquis of the European Union. It should be said that the pronunciation of educational measures is only one of the links in the chain of measures taken to prevent the criminality of minors, as it should be said not to impair predetermined behaviour but to follow the reaction only when delinquent behaviour has already occurred. An unusually important correction is a source of criminal sanctions that will correspond with the characteristics of his personality as on the occasions on which that minor or minor lives. This Act guarantees minors the protection of fundamental rights and limits are permitted only in exceptional cases. It also guarantees the confidentiality of information and identity. In particular, it takes into account the young age of life for its proper development and training for a further life, and it is forbidden and it is necessary to stress the punishable all procedures that would endanger the dignity of minors, abuse, torture or humiliation. The minor's personal and property rights which are in the jurisdiction of the welfare centre are protected. What is very good in this law, we have also heard is the obligation to draw up individual representation programs for each minor by a multidisciplinary team of experts. This programme is adapted, of course, and it changes according to the results achieved, but what is very important and contains support after the dismissal. The law stipulates the execution of a juvenile prison sentence with specialities in the enforcement of the juvenile population, so it prescribes a three-hour-a-day air stay, while adult perpetrators of criminal offences are entitled to 2 hours a day. Also, minors can visit his family four times a month and a holiday, while adult offenders have two times a month and a holiday. Firearms are not allowed to be administered to minors, as neither alone measures are allowed. It also regulates the safety measure of mandatory psychiatric treatment and treatment based on addiction. In the end, I will say, it will gain good effects, it is a good basis for conquering and winning the battle of socially unacceptable behaviour of minors, imposes a commitment on resolute bodies to ensure the necessary and greater resources of better personnel teams and to exercise supervision. They will guarantee, it is not pathetic, Croatia's nicer and healthier youth, so I will gladly support the final text of this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44881	Thank you. It's our guest, Dino Kozlevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44882	The Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Ministers, members of the Government, or the Ministry. Here's a few words for me, it's already quite said, I'm probably going to do something and I'm going to try something that might not have been said today, but it's very hard to say. A minor delinquency or violence present to the young population, the fact is, we are all witnesses and we will all agree that violence is present and that it is on the rise, that in numbers, so I would say, it is difficult for me to say a word of quality but also the intensity of violence. Therefore, I fully remind you that I continue to call on this High House to hold a debate and discuss violence among young people, after the rise of violence, which the SDP Club has proposed, and I think it is matured time to discuss, and I am convinced that there will be no visible or party differences in this problem that is definitely present with us. Regardless of the parallel we always have in the young world, that is the future of young people, however, the fact is that it is a population that is the future and that comes after us and that this population should be devoted to due respect. All due respect, all due time, and all that goes in one society to ensure your future. The fact is that today this population is exposed to violence, i.e. it is exposed to influence, since we all know that it is sensitive and that it is vulnerable, these influences that can be positive and negative, unfortunately they are more aggressive, the negative influences that children today are present is what they can visually see in violence, unfortunately and through electronics, I will not say electronic media, but the media and electronics, today children are present, they are being served violence, rather liberally in our society, through all what they can see is that these are presses, violence as one method of calculating in a society that has problems such as ours, and these are economic problems, and even the legacy that we draw from a wartime are all the conditions that a young person can accept and negative influences and negative influences and negative behaviors as normal behaviour. That's a fact, and I think we'll agree on that. Family, families in family parts have problems, especially in the situation today when economic problems are present, therefore, the question of how much of the family today can be devoted to education. Raising is the key word. Raise that, but when we talk about raising, then we always think about a parent, a parent who has to raise a child. However, education is a category that must be cared for by the entire society. Therefore, from family, from educational institutions to associations and other organisations, institutions, civil society dealing with young people in a positive way to society and state institutions. Unfortunately, when I'm talking about the state and society, then there's a problem mentioned before, and I'm saying that we have a lot of good regulations, that the problem with alcohol consumption, drinking alcohol to children. A few days ago, we were talking about drugs. I'm not gonna mention anything else. Thus, one child today is subject to these influences. Even where everything in the family works, where a family can devote itself to a child has major problems, especially because of these external influences, and when the family is affected by these external negative influences, there are usually serious problems. The problem is in our society and it has been said before, and here I will confirm, about the solution, that is, about the problem I will not say about the solution, the difficult word, but the problem of raising and correcting the deformities that cause the negative influences to come to young people are precisely a great role the social system has, so the welfare system. We are witnessing that there are problems here, not only financial problems but this whole system needs to be reorganised in order to meet today's needs, and ultimately not just young people, but a whole part of the social community within society. As far as the law itself is concerned, I'm going to say that basically, not basically, but I support the passing of that law. I must conclude that we should have had it before because this problem did not start today, but well here is one positive side of the EU which is exactly what we have to do and that legislation and bring it into line with the EU. So here it is, and there is one benefit, but I don't mention the benefit for the benefit of it, but it has to be for us. And that regulation is basically good, but that regulation will remain a dead letter on paper unless all conditions are established so that they can implement it. And the conditions are normally technical, both in creating space, spatial conditions, i.e. accommodation conditions, organisational conditions to human terms. With this population, I repeat the population that is specific, and that population should be done by experts. Unfortunately, this law is, or fortunately, a tool to try, not to say rearranging because rearranging someone can't be done but to correct these negative influences and one person who is still in the stage of development and growth, not physical but growth as a person, we're still on time to correct that person. And I understand in that sense, and I think that we all agree that it's about the law to penalize someone rather than as it is, I have to say that the solutions are quite well written and solved, that it's exactly what the essence of the system is, and that's to correct in the right way with the help of this mechanism, which is ultimately the punishment for this young man, that young person getting back on track again. And in this respect, I support the adoption of this law, but I call on everyone to not only at a declarative level when it comes to young people and minors, but this institution, society, state, government must show practically its will to contribute to education and to allow the conditions for young people to grow up in people who have had positive influences. And when I say that, I say exactly when we've been making a budget that someone said a certain time ago, we've seen that certain prevention programs that are part of these segments are whether they're institutions, civil society associations, state institutions, that we like to expand, or that's where we like to cut funds when it comes to these things, and especially in a situation where there's not enough resources. However, we must not be stingy about these things. We have to give maximum because we will probably all agree here if we have to, then under quotes I have to say in the powers of adults we have to take something, shorten in such a budget, and in that part that applies to young people, we must not be stingy about children because we see that the problems are evident and because of these problems that are happening today we will feel the long-standing consequences as we do today we feel the consequences of a long period of unfortunately which was, in the end, we should say, and be burdened with war and war events, all of what was in our space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44883	Thank you. And we still have one individual debate, the distinguished representative of Brankica Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44884	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with his associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about this law on the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences or offences, we cannot look back on the basic causes that young people actually cite to commit crimes. It's primarily a behavioral disorder. There are several definitions of behavioral disorders, and I've singled out one that seems most acceptable to me. Who says, "that the behavioral disorder of children and youth is all of those behaviors that sort of interfere with a child or a young man in regular operation and can be harmful and dangerous to that individual or his environment. Such behaviors deviate from the standard of behavior for that age, gender, situation, and environment. They can be present on a personal basis and in a social environment and require professional help." Any expert working in the field of child and family protection should certainly know and understand the causes of the disturbance in child behaviour and youth. Analyzing this law, it is generally good and I will certainly support it, and in my debate I will focus on one measure and on any difficulties in its implementation in practice. It's an increased concern and surveillance. For the decision to choose an educational measure, enhanced care and supervision is not the primary severity of the crime. The primary characteristics of minors are primarily, i.e. this measure is chosen when there is hope and prognosis that a minor will successfully transform his behaviour, when there is a simpler etiology of behavioral disorders, i.e. when it comes to so-called. easier cases. And of course it takes into account the characteristics of its primary environment, i.e. when the family is unable to have sufficient influence on the minor and when there are positive elements in the family except for the negative ones, that is, where there is an expert judgment that systematic work with the family can produce successful results. These circumstances are a decisive reason for expressing a measure of increased concern and supervision. Since it's... /The speaker doesn't understand. the kind of surveillance on freedom is very appropriate for those minors who have not yet formed a firm pattern of social behavior, for those at the crossroads and those who are aware of their intersections in life. It is not recommended that this measure be given to persons who are difficult to raise and who show rooted and define the habit of committing crimes. In principle, PBIN is not an appropriate measure for minors with metal retardation with severe emotional or psychosomatic damage. In this respect, it is necessary to distinguish the tasks for the implementation of this measure and the tasks for the implementation of the measure. Jobs for the implementation of the measures shall be carried out by a professional centre worker, defecologist, social educator, social worker, psychologist or other professional worker of a teaching or psychological orientation in cooperation with the expert team of the centre who is specialised in behavioural disorders of minors or child protection, marriage and family. This approach to these jobs should ensure multidisciplinary, i.e. professional competence and integrity in work. The PBIN leader shall carry out the tasks for the implementation of this measure. it may be an expert centre worker with the specified professional training or external co-worker of the centre with the same or similar professional profile, i.e. with the necessary ability and preference to work with children and young people. The content and manner of implementation of the measure shall be determined by an individual, or individual programme adapted to the minor, his family, containing the measures and activities to be taken, the indication of the holder of those measures and activities, the method of work, the method of implementation, and the time of taking the measures and activities. If other specific obligations are expressed to the minor with PBIN, they must also be entered into this programme. The creation of this programme should be based on a detailed analysis of the personality of minors, the socio-psychological structure of a family in which a minor lives, success in school, the way in which he spends his spare time and other important circumstances that relate primarily to the minor himself. In this regard, the aim is, on the one hand, to eliminate or reduce all negative forces affecting minors and their development, and on the other hand to develop all positive driving forces. It is important to encourage the development of a positive picture of yourself, self-respect and the social skills of young people. The Head shall carry out the measure under the supervision and instructions of the expert worker of the Centre, as well as the guidelines of the Judge for Youth. The professional centre which took part in the criminal proceedings should, as a rule, not be designated as the manager of the measures. In any case, the Centre is obliged to assess the similarity of the Head of Measures and to monitor its work. If he finds out he's not like him, he'll make another leader. It may also change it at its request and at the request of the court, and equally if the minor is not fit by a designated manager. A leader working to implement the measure should seek to establish a stronger and more quality relationship of cooperation and trust with a minor and encourage him to be a fundamental bearer of the process of transforming his own personality and behaviour. He takes care of a minor first, and then he monitors him. His authority in front of a minor should be built on the basis of normal humanity, simple expertise, justice, cultural and moral behavior, objectivity, real interest in minor problems and genuine willingness to help him. Only in this way can he be able to make positive contact with a minor and remove the distance between them. In a simple and comprehensible way, explain to him the obligations set out in the programme, so that the minor understands as well as understands the consequences in the event of non-compliance with the obligations given. In view of the increase in criminal offences among minors, the lack of professional staff in welfare institutions is significant and too little for those minors who are already in treatment. We therefore return to problems in the welfare system again, the lack of professional workers, the lack of multidisciplinary access due to unscrupulousness, or the lack of professional workers. This is a big and frequent and actually a long-standing problem in social care centres and certainly a problem that affects the highest quality of work and its stated and other causes here. Another problem, when we talk about strengthening concern and supervision, because the problem of lack of external co-workers. This is also a common problem that we encounter in the welfare system. Third problem, inadequate cash reward for the work of the leader. This is just another in a series of problems encountered by centres that are trying to ensure quality and continuous work on this scale. The young are the lacmus paper of society. The development age of teens is the time when the outside world and the world of peers become the most important for young people. From the family they got what they could get, what she was able to give and turn to the outside world to answer important questions like, who am, what can, what can, what is not, what is the world I live in, what are the rules of the game? They must revalue the image of themselves and the world that they have received from their parents and establish their own identity. That is why teenagers are more than any other adult category sensitive to society and its values, as well as to the boundaries of the illicit and allowed. Why are we no longer able to set limits to the permitted, acceptable and unacceptable, strictly forbidden? Many would offer a simple answer to that question. There is no social will to help children and young people to commit crimes as little as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44885	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. I thank all those who participated both in the debates on the occasion of the first reading and the second reading of the law. The suggestions obtained during the first reading were incorporated into the final text of the law. In our second reading, we received two groups of amendments. Amendments of the Committee on Legislatives and Amendments to Lovrin. These amendments are extremely useful and are fully adopted. In the end, I would say that by this law, if we look at it in the context of the law on probation and the Law on the execution of punishment to minors, it is a great step forward. But I fully agree with all those who have pointed out that the key text of success will be their successful application in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44886	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44887	This was a second reading, P.Z.E. Number 367. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, and by representative Ana Lovrin. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendment committees and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law, in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. The amendment of Agent Anne Lovrin was also accepted. Right? Okay. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences and offences. Please, let's get involved and vote. Is that the result? This law was adopted unanimously with 109 votes, along with amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44888	We're going to the twelveth point. It is - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 382 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This bill will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Proposer that, distinguished Ivan Shimonovic, minister of justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44889	Thank you very much. There are four laws of which, unfortunately, not everyone has been introduced here yet, because there is still debate on committees. However, in order not to repeat things in view of the intertwination of matter, Mr. Vice President, I would like to make a general comment that applies primarily to the laws that are on the agenda today, but also to those who are coming. So these laws make each other a tightly connected whole. Most of the comments and proposals presented in the debate on the occasion of the first reading were useful and helped to break the final text. I sincerely hope that these laws that are on the agenda today, as well as those that are coming to receive the widest support, will be introduced by changes that will be decisively marked by the Croatian judiciary in the coming decades. So long after the term of office of this government expires, this one is also called by the Parliament. The key changes adopted by the legislative package concern strengthening judicial independence, selecting and promoting judges and lawyers, i.e. state lawyers according to objective and transparent criteria, and improving their professional education. These changes will also directly reflect the quality and efficiency of the judiciary. A better choice of staff, where they are selected best according to objective criteria, is greater work motivation as it progresses exclusively according to the results of work and more systematic and better education, both at the beginning of their careers and lifelong education simply guaranteeing and better work results. In addition, judges and prosecutors who enter and advance in the judiciary solely according to their objective and working results are the best guarantee of their independence from any influence, thus being the foundation of a rule of law in which no one is above the right. According to the new system, candidates for judges and state lawyers are selected according to the results of the judicial exam, followed by additional two-year professional education as part of the Judicial Academy as an independent and independent institution. Those with the best results during education first choose in which court, i.e. the state's attorney's office, want to start a judicial career. Career advancement is also based on precise and objective criteria such as the number and weight of solved cases, the percentage of confirmatory or abolishing judgments and the like. Significant changes include the way the court president is elected and the duties of the president from the point of view of the government's technology. It is quite unusual for someone to voluntarily give up their powers and influences, but as justice minister, I am happy to do so because the proposed changes are in favour of strengthening the independence of the judiciary and the rule of law. I've never appointed a single court president without consulting the Supreme Court President, although I had the authority to do so. According to the solution now proposed, this practice also turns into a legal obligation. The presidents of the justice minister will now be appointed to the Supreme Court president's proposal. In order to raise the efficiency of the judiciary, some new obligations for the presidents of the courts are also introduced. When one of the judges is not successful in carrying out his duties during a one-year period, then the President of the Court must either initiate a strict procedure or give a written explanation to the President of a directly higher court for why he did not do so. Overall, watching these changes will bring a number of newspapers and new obligations and a greater burden to the judicial profession. However, I am particularly pleased that the judicial profession has just participated in the design of this legislative package and has supported it in public awareness that it raises the public's trust in the judiciary and raises its social reputation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44890	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Committee on Justice, the chairman of the committee, Honored Representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44891	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. At its 39th session, the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 3 December 2009. The Committee discussed the draft law as a parent working body. The committee members unanimously supported the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. The opinion is that the assessment criteria for judges are governed by Article 70 of the Law in order to be the key to the adoption of the assessment methodology for judges. It is proposed to supplement the second point in the same article in a way that the judge is obliged to respect the legal deadlines for making decisions. It is also necessary in a clear way to regulate the participation of judges in the work of international organisations or to work on the preparation of drafts and other regulations, and in a similar way how this work affects the required number of decisions under the framework criteria. It is the opinion that the score of the assessment of the conduct of the judicial duties set out in Article 22 should be reviewed. It is proposed to initiate a strict procedure and to determine the responsibility of the judge, in order to compensate for damage to the right of trial within a reasonable period of time. It is suggested to the Proposer to review the possibility of recognising the training of advisers in judicial bodies, which, according to the applicable rules, fulfils the conditions for a judge and a deputy municipal state attorney based on experience and practical knowledge. It is proposed to bring the transitional and final provisions in line with the transitional and final provisions of the other legislative proposals contained in this package, and the previous amendments and additions to these laws. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts with the following amendments. The amendment to Article 15(a) of Article 74(a) of paragraph 3 is amended and reads as follows: "for the Supreme Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia, a person who has served for at least 15 years as a judicial officer or for the same period as a lawyer, a public notary, a university professor of applied law who has passed a judicial examination and at least 15 years of working experience after a judicial examination". In the light of the Law on Courts and the Law on the Judicial Academy, the education of judges is regulated primarily in order to achieve impartiality and independence of proceedings in court proceedings. Since in the first and second stages, a limited circle of persons for access to judicial duty, this amendment also narrows down the possibility of the highest court. The amendment to Article 24, in Article 106(3), at the end of the sentence, shall be placed at the end of the sentence and shall add the words "confirmed in a strict procedure". The amendment complements the provision in such a way that it is necessary to determine the responsibility of the judge in the phasing out procedure in order to be able to claim the compensation paid for breach of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44892	Thank you. Would anyone else like to take a word from the board? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. We have three clubs. He is the first respected representative of Goran Beus Richembergh, on behalf of the HNS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44893	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. We are taking part in an extremely important business, which is the establishment of legal acts that will form a large process of judicial reform that is supported by the need to adapt our legislation to the acquis of the European Union, so much or perhaps even much more talk about a whole series of needs that need to be met so that the system, the judicial system, can function better, and all in favour of better life, strengthening legal certainty, strengthening the rule of law in Croatia. It is quite clear that it is a huge area that is not possible to address in a paliatically way, but where it is necessary to access complexly, on all sides, changing in parallel a whole series of legal regulations. In this sense, we are not quite happy at the HNS club that in this business, judicial reform has taken place with one benign story of a reduction in the number of courts. In our view, the reduction in the number of courts, in our view, was only meant to be one of the consequences of the reform, not one of the first steps. Because when the foundation of the new system is hit, then it can be highly evaluated what, how well-expanded and developed network of courts should serve such a new model. And what happened to us? What happened was that we formally reduced the number of courts, however, that none of them were closed. In fact, everyone just turned into branch courts of their own new courts, and there may be no more presidents of the court and we may have reduced the cost of a certain small percentage, but ultimately we still have the system of courts as it was, and we've spent a lot of time around something that we represent is extremely important and very effective. What we have and what we have pointed out in the first reading of this law, but also the DSV Law, is the introduction and definition of objective criteria for the evaluation of the work of judges, but also for the qualification of candidates for the affairs of judicial officials. The fact is that we have so far had a number of criteria, however, that this evaluation process was not transparent at all and that it led in its finality, in reality to cartoon scenes or cases in which the genetic framework of someone's relatives, relatives' relationship with some or some other completely insane criteria were crucial in selecting judges' appointments, i.e. judicial officials. So it happened to us that the public actually had affairs about such appointments, but also when receiving new judges clouded a whole series of perhaps very good solutions that we had in the last years in the teaming, in the staff teaming of the judiciary, means all levels. But the fact that the system was so set was extremely ridiculous, because we testified that the criterion for someone's choice was that he, him or her, was the mother's judge. So that's something that's absolutely unacceptable. Now this law defines 14 or 16 criteria that create a space in which it can be objectively and qualitatively evaluated for the contribution of each judge, i.e. the judge's official, and this can be a basis that will allow in the next few years to be really crystallized and then set up, and then promote the best, and that it is also known and that it has not practically met the challenges facing the judge as one extremely important, very prominent, in this system of necessary interest. However, we are not pleased that the promoter did not accept one of our proposals. He accepted it at the next law, which is that the problem of the non-transparency of the score sheets is solved by publishing a list of points on the Internet. Namely, what do the lists that remain as the internal secret of the Judicial Council or one court do if no one has any insight from the public into the list according to which judges can be seen how they are evaluated, what effect they have, that they have practically ranked themselves by their work in a few years within the College of Judges in a particular court. What is this list for, then, is an internal act that will serve the Judicial Council for further action and no one else will be able to see alive what this is about. The idea was accepted in the Law on the State Judicial Council, where it is said that the rank of the list of points which actually means the list of championships in the cases of the election of new judges or reception into the judicial service, i.e. the reception of judicial officials to be published on the DSV page, which we fear in this case why we should not apply the same principle here. Of course, there would be resistance, of course, that those weak judges who did not respond to the challenges of their profession, and their call, would not be pleased to see the public as being the last or somewhere below the middle, means that the effects of their work and their engagements are placed in the lower part of the scale of quality judges, i.e. to qualify them among those who should finally say thank you nicely and goodbye. Because what is the point of ranking the performance of judges if it is not also possible to select judges and to thank them for their judicial duty or to allow them to go through a tight procedure or in some other way say goodbye to these judges. This proposal has respected a number of quality remarks from the debate debate in the first reading, and in this sense the HNS Club will support this proposal but we still point out that the Government or the Proposer has nothing to fear, but it would be worth all the ranking lists of judges, to make it public, because only then do they really have full meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44894	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44895	Mr. Representative incorrectly stated, there was still inaccuracies, and this is one, that we formally reduced the courts and actually the system remained the same and nothing happened. On the contrary, we did not reduce the network of courts formally, but we reduced it essentially, allowing for a step in progress in efficiency, and the organisation of courts, in a way that became judges who were in several different courts, judges of a single court which could organise courts and trials and specialize in judges and achieve better results. Just a physical merger that goes towards the Ministry of Justice's dynamics isn't really essential.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44896	Thank you. We're moving on with the club debate. It is up to Commissioner Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic on behalf of the SDP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44897	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support the adoption of a final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts, arguing that these solutions, which are proposed, are very specific and that their strict application should lead to an effective judiciary, i.e. In particular, by saying that decisions are made on time and that they are of quality. That's what citizens are complaining about, that's what citizens aren't happy about. But there's another problem with that, he's inseparable from management reform. If we continue to see more than a million and 600, a million 700 and 800 thousand, then you can see that the judges are still working, but of course they can choose some objects and create a norm and those objects are essential to people, although the least value of the dispute, for a certain citizen and for his family the most important. So, how do courts work neatly. Here is almost all of these laws we bring by consensus, someone might contribute to something else but there is no divergence, it was now, and it has always been so, except for the reform of the Criminal Law where we still face certain obstacles, but the government will probably overcome them in the final proposal, the novels of the Penal Code to get really a modern criminal law that will firstly be able to oppose economic crime and malversions that each day ensuing in black Croatian workers and his family, and remain in debt both to the state and suppliers. So they're destroying the ones who are doing business properly, who are legally acting, and nothing is happening to them. On this occasion, I will again update the subject in Italy, Calista Tanzi, who ruined the Parmalate, and by the way, the company he created himself, has ruined it by not paying 100 small milkers. It's a hard crime for them, for 10 years he's already won, and they don't give him any peace now, because he pulled out the assets he assumed and turned it into art, and they come to that as well. It's normal for us to deprive the company of poverty, to extract its profits in various ways, without paying the worker, it's not socially dangerous behavior. The government must finally understand that this is one of the most dangerous behaviors, which then causes great injustice, because if people see that nothing is happening to these people, that they're still asking for help from the state, then there's a question of justice and justice and a number of such and similar laws that come to our benches and that we all unanimously support but the question of why there's no fruit of all this, at least not to the expected and necessary extent. As we all expect here and above all else our citizens expect. So, the old sayings were still in that sense "the judge who doesn't know is the greatest danger to his party" but we still have cases today, and not only are they happening in front of courts, but many institutions, and that is the behavior that we have to cut down Mr. Minister in the root. That he blames himself in court and that the righteous are afraid. As soon as you have such an attitude that is not the exception of any of your inner experiences, even the rule is something wrong with the whole system. The system has been resisting for a long time. Let's just remember the Association of Judges, of course, which was conducted. Fortunately, you have no such problems right now, and thank God those times are behind us. A few years ago, by 2000 there was no word of reform at all mentioned, and the one already mentioned at that time was welcomed by the knife, and now we see that judges, especially younger personnel, are very happy and even more experienced receive new forms of knowledge and that finally one absolute solution, primarily the strongest political forces in the country did not leave them indifferent. And they finally realize that their contribution, the engagement, however much reform is designed, is precisely the judges who are carrying out that reform. So if we see a little bit and move on to certain provisions, so starting a state school is really something we need regardless of the Judicial Academy. We know that's what funds are needed for. As much as the special law establishes courts and this Administrative Court, administrative courts finally become courts full of jurisdiction, which means 4 courts need to be established new, and the existing Supreme Administrative Court. All of this requires enormous resources, including this education that will go through judges who are required. And those candidates who claim to enter the judicial order require huge resources and, despite the fact that individual funds are provided in other legal proposals, it is not possible that even in this law, certain resources are not needed. Although someone would say, this law only defines something that needs to be done and which is being developed by certain laws. However, to get to a qualified judge, who is of quality, who is conscious, who takes his call as a way of life, not as one working time from 8 to 4 or later in the winter period. So these people exist in our justice system, but they are rare. They're more of an exception than a rule, and we know that an individual who is in the ranks of the judiciary if he doesn't meet those high standards degrades the entire profession. Why? Because the basic Declaration of Human Rights, political freedoms in its Article 3 defines exactly the human right to an impartial and educated judge. So that's what every citizen has and he's not happy if he really liked someone who got there, but everyone else is good at that court, and he's not. So there shouldn't be what a colleague said to have an understanding. They say, "He's a good man," it's not questionable, but if he doesn't do his job in high standards to meet therefore and norms and that his work satisfies quality, that quality is very little spoken of. I'm glad she's finally mentioned in this bill. So it's not just norm that matters, but also what quality it is because an unquality verdict will often, repeatedly walk from higher to lower courts and such justice finally when a man and after 10, 20 years of judicial justice won't really see it as justice because it remains that rule even though justice is slow, but attainable, but really justice if it comes late then it's worse than any injustice. Now the question is well regulated only progress within the profession itself. Very specific conditions, time-defined, methodology of the evaluation that was made, so not ad hoc created. So these are all things that are now being studied by law, and that was finally necessary in order not to be interpreted by some interpretation, often by the Judicial Council, which valorised the work of its colleagues by voting. It would be oral debates, praises to the best judges who showed the best results in the business, and then resort to a secret vote, and that person would often get the least support. Why? Because it was competition, and that means they didn't take responsibility. And then the question is, what kind of judges aren't worthy of their colleague's work, how do they make their judgments, how much can they be trusted? How independent are they in their work? So the law is designed to put an end to all this. However, the question arises, one serious question is that each profession needs a certain freshness. So, that even the judicial orders can be entered by those who were not judicial practitioners, who had not their first experience legal acquired within courts, the judiciary in the narrow sense of words, and for them as long as it was left in that first reading hanging in the air, it seems to me that there was still no adequate answer. And that can't be an unresolved question. It is very, not easy to find mechanisms, because it is easy to score and the judge, in particular it is not easy to find an adequate and fair one and a fair methodology there either. At the end of the methodology that corresponds to just the evaluation of the trial as one of the most complex intellectual human activities. The question arises, therefore, what will happen to persons who no doubt comply with the provisions of the law to be judges, but who for the first time enter the ranks and how can they compete with other candidates who already have an internship in the judiciary, and for which they are then brought special points and scores? So what are they disproportionately into, and how do these two things reconcile? Because there are no criteria and no standards for such persons. Except later when the state school starts to act like they're finishing state school for judges because it's mandatory for everyone. But until that time, what will happen to the profession? It's not good for any profession to close. Of course, that the best and best quality and for advancement, to promote that and certainly are always in advantage of them and loves the system of such a person and ultimately rewards them for their work and for their commitment to the service, their calling, their profession, but it must not in any way lead to such an activity being autistic, to shut down to be self-satisfaction and not open to other lawyers, especially those who have acquired their work on certain other jobs having a certain reputation in society, even in the country as a whole. Such people are recognised by the law as candidates but the issue of choice has not been resolved. In matters of the appointment of the President of the Court, therefore, Mr. Minister and so every smart minister is working to consult with the President of the Supreme Court as representative of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia for the appointment of judges. That's how it's done and that's how I did it. And he doesn't call his party leader. And I congratulate you on that, and it is good that such a practice is also found in the law. It's a simple question of brains if you want to have the best. However, here is a solution to now exempt the Judicial Council. It seems to me like it's in some way, and I know why you did it, right from what I just said. But you need those people who are called to be responsible, to force them simply to be held accountable. On their responsibility if they proposed the worst person or worse, and they left out the good ones, so when they get the word of it, they get the word and the minister's decision to explain that the minister has appointed such a person who enjoys the trust of the Supreme Court president, who objective indicators show how this person is done, then they too will imagine little. I can also say that by having such an experience that is very stressful and that is one of the more unpleasant situations that the minister has, there was a situation that they chose the worst rule. But when you explain that you chose the person best, you named the best person by objective criteria and you specify them, then a little by little they start and they suggest exactly that kind of person. I wouldn't exempt them from responsibility here. Let them also participate, and let them face their decisions that will then be made public. But it will no longer be hidden we see it as well as the amendment to the Law on the Judicial Council that it will not hide behind some secret vote. We also need to make a public statement about our colleagues. Here's by finishing this exhibit on behalf of the SDP club, I repeat once again that the SDP club will support the adoption of this bill. But here, Mr. Minister, think a little bit about these judicial councils, why turn them off, get them involved. And they are happy to participate in all this, so let them take on such a responsibility as they so eagerly and long for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44898	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44899	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As the minister said today, we are talking about a set of laws that are part of negotiating chapter 23. - Justice and the foundation of law. According to the evaluations and recommendations of both the European Union and the commitments made by the Republic of Croatia to introduce objective and transparent criteria for entering the judicial profession and redefine the way of elections and the role of the State Judiciary Council in relation to the State Judiciary Council, we will discuss under the next point of his release from the influence of the legislative authority, which we will discuss within the envisaged constitutional changes. Issues on the appointment of judges and state lawyers, as an introduction to a judicial career, have been identified by the negotiating position as the candidate's obligation to finish the State School for Judicial Officials, which should start with the work of 2010 according to those positions. In order to do so, and in order to be able to establish the conditions for the appointment of judges, it is also necessary to establish a legislative framework, which is precisely this law which is before us, namely the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts. It is already said here that we do not repeat much, so the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law, of course on the trail of commitments undertaken by the Republic of Croatia to pursue a strategic study for the creation of unique, objective and transparent criteria for entering the judicial and state-level law profession and a more basic State School for Judicial Officials, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted in December 2008. Furthermore, the need to amend this law is also in relation to the current reform of the administrative trial. So where administrative courts are introduced as courts of full jurisdiction in accordance with the European Charter of Human Rights. Therefore, it was also necessary to introduce in this law provisions on first-degree administrative courts. As much as this may seem unmistakable at first glance, it may be that the administrative courts in the law are determined by special articles outside of all other courts that are in the system. This has its reasons for the transitional and final provisions which delay the application, i.e. the introduction of these administrative courts by 2013. As already said, this law is on the verge of introducing transparent criteria for entry and promotion into judicial officials. And it's certainly a good step forward and it's establishing fully transparent criteria. But it's wrong to say that so far it's all been that the only criterion is who mom or dad is, because it's just not true. And the truth is for the sake of the Croatian public, because it's not good for people to think they have the impression that they're alive in such a country. So far, the choice in judicial duty and progress in the judicial career has been subject to evaluation and criteria, so the assessment of the conduct of the judicial office, the assessment of the conduct of the advisory duties, the results of which were decided by the Judicial Council and proposed to the State Judicial Council, which also had the power to verify the results of the work of individual candidates and to make a final decision. Therefore, this progress now and this proposal is certainly progress, but there were no criteria. What is also good for this law to be established and that is, in relation to the proposal, the final text in relation to the proposal, which is the setting of deadlines, strict deadlines and consequences for a citizen or party who submits a request for trial within a reasonable period of time. Therefore, the deadlines, obligations of the Court of Justice directly, the adoption of a solution of a higher court, the deadlines in which it must and at the end of the obligation, i.e. the right of the State to regress itself from the judge if the judge has violated the trial within a reasonable period of time for his own guilt, intent or extreme negligence, that is, when the State Judicial Council finds that in a strict procedure, the State's Attorney General may then go to that judge with a request to regress those funds that the State had to pay for the time-limits. Provisions shall also be introduced on the Judicial Council for Administrative Courts. It is good that, compared to the proposal in the first reading, the decision on constitutionality has been dropped from the jurisdiction of the Administrative Court because it would be contrary to the Constitution. The trail of professionalisation sets out the conditions for judges of first-degree courts, judges of second-degree courts where judges of these courts are determined to be exclusively persons who have passed a state-run school for judges and then slightly broader conditions for the highest Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, and I hope, in that sense, that the applicant will also consider the amendments received. It is also excellent to introduce a provision that the appointment of the President of the Courts consults, i.e. the proposal of the President of the Supreme Court. So, it was a good practice of the minister, it was a good practice and before the appointment of the President of the Court of Justice to consult with the President of the Supreme Court for the reason that, in some ways, the Minister was in charge of the presidents in that part of the judicial administration, but also in part of the control of the deadlines, the quality of the trial, which is certainly the Supreme Court, or the President of the Supreme Court. And that's why I don't know why that bitterness with my colleague Anticevic about her not consulting with the party chief. I don't know who she thought she was consulting with the party chief. Perhaps only to his predecessor, who is a member of the Social Democratic Party and no one else has a party chief to consult with, so there is no need to make such serious remarks. It is certainly also good that Article 79 of the Law lays down precisely the criteria for the adoption of the assessment of the Judicial Council and the methodology to be drawn up by the State Judicial Council, with the opinion of the Council made by the Presidents of all the Judicial Councils. This has given us a truly transparent assessment within the judicial councils, as I note that in a number of legislative changes so far, little by little has been trying to get as objective an assessment as possible, even by introducing a public vote obligation just so that there is no lobbying but that each public must have arguments for its own opinion in relation to the assessment of the individual candidate. Here, on the trail of all this, as we will support the following package laws, the Croatian Democratic Community supports the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44900	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44901	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts. That was a second reading, P.Z.E. number 382. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, and by attorney Ana Lovrin. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted, State Secretary Mr Drazen Bosnjakovic. I would like an indication of the amendment of the Legislative Committee to Articles 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 13, 15, 24, 26. It's the first amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44902	The government accepts all amendments to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44903	So he's also accepted the article... and in Article 32, Article 33, point (a) is replaced by the following: [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please refer to the amendment of the Justice Committee, Article 15, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44904	The government has partially accepted this amendment. If we change these words to a professor of applied law in a university professor of legal science, we accept the amendment. If the Proposer agrees.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44905	I'd like to ask Mrs. Anna Lovrin, chairman of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44906	We agree with the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44907	Well, then this amendment is accepted in the text as supplemented by Mr. Secretary of State. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44908	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44909	It becomes an integral part of the bill. And Mrs. Anne Lovrin's amendment to Article 31.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44910	The Government does not accept this amendment, because in 2013, we will have the first generation of judges and state lawyers from our Croatian Judicial Academy, and then if we accepted this amendment it would be contrary to the solutions we offer in the Law on the Judicial Academy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44911	Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44912	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, I'm sorry you didn't find a way. Namely, she appealed to the Association of Judicial Advisors, appealed to the Association of Judges. This was discussed at the Justice Committee, and this was not an amendment to the Justice Committee, but we opened up the possibility for the Ministry to reconsider once more, and the Government to consider, for reasons of appeal to the Association of Judges, that one part of the quality and prepared staff for the conduct of the judiciary would actually leave the judiciary and, above all, because of advisers who have been in large courts for many years and have not become judges, not because of their unquality, but because of the judicial posts being much less than the advisers applying to them. Of course, I don't think for a moment that the criteria of excellence should be maintained and that they should be referred to some reviewing and clear and transparent criteria, not after six years of counselling that they must go back to the judicial school. I was hoping you'd come up with some kind of model, but I believe you if you say that this whole system would disrupt you here, it's only about two years of extension of this deadline, and I'm sorry you haven't been able to install it into your system, but of course I'm not asking for a vote because it won't get the required majority. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44913	This amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts. Please, let's get involved and vote. And let's vote yes. Score. This law was adopted by a majority of 110 votes for and 2 abstentions and nothing against along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44914	And we're going to the thirteenth agenda. This is - Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 383 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This bill will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was held: the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. The Proposer has declared in the previous point that he gives an introductory statement for all the laws and also for this one. Confirmed. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. And first it's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Ingrid Marinović Antičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44915	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister with his associates. Here, speaking on behalf of the SDP club, I can say right away at the beginning, that the SDP club supports the adoption of this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council and for all those reasons that I have just stated in that previous law. And the good minister said it was indeed one package that unites a new institution, a judicial academy institution and a state school for judges and a more transparent object of the maximum, objective progress criteria. Therefore, given what I said, it may be only to point out here a special situation so that these laws would really complete and execute their role, it seems to me that Mr. Minister I believe that you will have the power in the Government to amend the Penal Code and regarding these issues of independent justice, but also to point out their responsibilities. I am in vain of making good laws that always require and certain not only time but also certain material resources if responsibility is avoided and the good ones eventually lead to their being drained. So it was that provision there that we had in the previous law that judges would now personally answer from their own resources for those situations when they did not make a decision within a reasonable period of time. So they are obliged to refute the state of damage that she had to pay off to such a party. Now here we have the same situation, so this law that is in complete with that, in a way, as a single package, needs to be re-introduced by the criminal we had up to the so-called. Criminal mini-reforms until '97. in the year, the offence of breaking the law by the judge and the other judicial officer. I have to say, we've had this in that novel since 2003. Because the possible criminal liability of a judge or other state official under the existing provisions of the Penal Code of Detention is absolutely inadequate for sanctioning serious violations, i.e. intentional violations of the law, in order for a party to benefit, or possibly satisfy someone's political influence. So to reduce this, or prevent it, it is therefore necessary to design a crime precisely for these officials, and thus protect them from unfounded persecutions, and often those against whom they justly carry out the processes. Well, it wasn't a case here that was negligible, and here is the case in Čakovec, where judges got caught there in 2001, 2002, in the face of economic crime. And already at the stage of the investigation, there is virtually no defendant who has not filed a criminal case against an investigative judge for opening an investigation against him, because he considered that there were no reasonable doubts, but that they were possibly just some of the basics of doubt. And such a judge was then thrown out some kind of formality to prove... , that is, the legality of its conduct. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this crime would be defined and designed in such a way that something more healthy logic could not defend, and such cases in our previous legal practice were. It was a case of a judge who ordered a leave to a person who had no will at all, was not in a relative relationship of any kind, nor could he explain why he did it. And he was sentenced to prison. So there are situations that would not be touched, so this crime would not affect their independence, their independence, to assess, according to their conscience and by law, concrete cases. But then it would be reserved for those cases I say are out of their minds, which are given nothing to explain. We're looking for an independent judge, but the judge cannot be independent of the law and of sound logic and common sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44916	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Honorable Representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44917	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here is, as we have already said, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports this Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council, as a law from the package to ensure uniform transparent criteria, to enter into judicial duty and to advance in the judicial career. So this law actually intervenes in the existing Law on the State Judicial Council on the trail of a strategic government decision, which requires the adoption of an implementing legislative framework. So, afterwards, another good option opens up for me, which is the possibility that judges can, or are given the opportunity to base themselves on an internal tender, that the State Judiciary Council can from one, that they can apply from one court where they are already appointed as judicial officer to another court, in which competition may be higher because it is attractive, and will also be implemented according to the criteria which are the basis of points from the judicial assessment. Maybe not everyone knows, but within the State's Attorney's office, there is a possibility that a state's attorney would suggest such rotations or changes. There has been no such thing so far, but in the ordinary procedure of appointment, a judge appeared if he wanted to go to another court. This law also lays down procedures for the appointment and resolution, etc., and procedures for the progress of judges, a clear criterion. An amendment has been put in place, possibly by the Proposer and will accept such an amendment in Article 17a as it is said that, on the basis of the sum of points behind the assessment of the conduct of the judicial office in the last three years, the Court of Justice has prescribed that progress in the judicial career, it should also be harmonised for the last 5 years, and for the Supreme Court for 10 years. And on top of that, we support law-making. Furthermore, with the hope that the applicant will also accept the amendment to Article 17(3), which is now the candidates of the written action, under the personal closure, which is determined by the Council, so the State Judicial Council. This provision is clearly put in place as an anti-corruption tool in a way that when writing a written action that does not know who is the name and last name of the action, because of the objectivity of the evaluation. However, we believe that this tool is not a good tool, if that personal password will be determined only by the Council, then they will know the name behind which passwords. So the essence of writing under the code, and the candidate then teaches it in a closed envelope and later determines who's under what code. Here, with these proposed amendments, we support the adoption of laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44918	Thank you. And we have one individual debate, and that is the distinguished representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44919	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Respecting the Council of Europe's recommendation in the need to enable the appropriate training of candidates for judicial duties before their appointment, and given that all Member States of the European Union have established criteria for the appointment of judges and state lawyers, and have established specific provisions for the preparation and education of candidates, in order to raise the level of professionalism to a higher level, the Ministry of Justice has developed a strategic study to develop objective, transparent criteria for entering a judicial and state-level law profession and establishing a State School for Judicial Officials, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia as of 19 December 2008. In the implementation of the strategic study, Amendments to the Law on Courts shall be prescribed to applicants for the obligation of completion of the State School of Judicial Officials to be appointed judges, primarily for judges of criminal, municipal, commercial and administrative courts first appointed as judges in those courts. In this respect, the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the State Judicial Council are prescribed that the Ministry of Justice, at the end of each calendar year, draws up a free jobs plan at all courts in the Republic of Croatia and calls for an internal tender for the completion of the vacancy of the vacancy. In addition, the procedures of the Ministry of Justice and the State Judicial Council with applications submitted until the appointment itself shall be detailed. The paper is an evaluation of the conduct of the judicial duty for the last three years, by the Judicial Council and by the methodology of the State Judicial Council, on which the State Judiciary Council determines the number of points, and brings a ranking list of candidates who have applied for a job as a job. The decision to appoint a judge to another court must be based on the results of the candidates on the list of championships. This way, objectively and transparently, the work of the judge so far is valued and the possibility of subjectivism in the system of progress is eliminated. The Office of the Ministry of Justice shall also be ordered if, following an internal tender procedure, there remain unfulfilled judicial posts, a tender for the reception of candidates to the State School for Judicial Officials for whom, after the successful completion of the State School, the State Judicial Council will decide on the appointment of a candidate for courts to be admitted to the State School. The Council's decision must be based on the final assessment reached by the candidate at the State School for Judicial Officials. Only the establishment, establishment and work programme of the State School for Judicial Officials and the conditions for the reception of candidates and the method of passing the admission and final exam will be prescribed by a special law. For this reason, and expecting greater professionalisation of judges, state lawyers and their deputies as well as the greater possibility of acquiring the expertise and skills necessary for the conduct of these functions and advancements in the judicial profession, I support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44920	And as last in line, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44921	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. In any case, this whole set of laws, starting from the Proposal for a Law on Courts, then to the State Judicial Council, and then to the Judicial Academy that follows, etc., is indeed one set of pro-European laws that bring improvement in this sphere. It is clear that a chapter on justice that I will not say to it disputed, but rather as far as it is concerned in our own, in our negotiating mission to join the European Union, it is welcome that we have a debate on this and, as far as I can see, there is one general agreement that these draft laws are positively assessed or voted. Namely, since there are also some of these issues that I have asked you a few written questions and received your written answers, just so that some of them may say, namely, and you have answered me and signed that answer mentioning the millions of damages that have been caused, I will not say because of the statute of limitations, but because of the untimely decision or the untimely appointment of the debate in court. Furthermore, I am talking about multimillion-dollar damages in 2008 and 2009, and I was pleased with your answer, which is very precise and with exact amounts. However, I was not satisfied that this was happening to our country, I was not satisfied with those who caused such damage that from the state register, from the state register, that they had left millions of amounts due to the lack of urgency of the courts. Furthermore, you also replied that there have been millions of damages or damages by addressing the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to the human rights court in Strasbourg and, in that case, there is also compensation but also compensation for conducting the proceedings at the instance in our country on multimillion-dollar damages. You also gave me an excellent and clear answer to the damage caused by the dislocation of court disputes from a municipal court to neighbouring municipal courts. In doing so, I wrote to you through the submission of the written case of Slavonski Brod from whose municipal court cases are dislocated to a court in Djakovo, or to a court in Požeg that is less burdened. I made it clear that there was another way to get rid of it. In fact, in my submission, I was constructive, if parties travel to the Požeg court or to the Court of Justice in Djakov, lawyers travel, there is a certain consumption, they are paid a daily fee, etc., then it was much simpler for the judge from Djakov to come to Slavonski Brod to court and to strengthen the team to get rid of it. So from all of this, when I summed up all these material damages, in cash amount, then you and I came, I read your report, came up with a figure of about 50 million kunas, or 7 million euros just for 2009 and so much in 2008. So it's about 100 million kuna, or almost 15 million euros. This is why, in the hope that these bill proposals will finally solve these problems that I've been talking about, indeed, the HDSB Club will raise a hand for these legal proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44922	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44923	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Judicial Council. This was a second reading of P.Z.E. No. 383. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate was concluded, after the debate was concluded, the Government submitted an amendment, in accordance with Article 166. The Rules of Procedure of this amendment must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Who's in favour of having a debate on the government's amendment? Please raise your hands. Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. Accepted unanimously, 119. I ask the applicant's representative to further explain the amendment. This is an amendment to Article 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44924	Mr. President very briefly, the articles 16b, c., d. and e. that we have proposed in this Act are regulated by the Institute of Internal Competition. Since we will have the first generation of judges and state lawyers in 2013 we believe that this institute will be brought to life by the first generation of judges and state lawyers. 1. 2013 It's the content of this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44925	Thank you. I am opening a debate on the proposal for this amendment. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the government's amendment, please raise the hands of the government's amendment. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Against? Restraint? This amendment was adopted unanimously with 118 votes. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. First Legislative Committee on Articles 1 and 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44926	Mr. President, all amendments and the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Legislative Law are accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44927	Thank you. They become an integral part of the bill. I thank the Secretary of State. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This law was adopted by the majority of 104 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and nothing against along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44928	Moving to point 14. - Final proposal of the Law on the Judicial Academy, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 450 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This bill will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Here you go. Dear Ivan Šimonovic, minister of justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44929	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. I will be very brief on the role of the Judicial Academy in the selection of candidates who will become prosecutors, i.e. state lawyers, I have spoken earlier. Now just a few more words about the academy itself. The Justice Academy already exists in some way as part of the Justice Department. What changes is actually two things. This law makes it an independent institution and its other weight, which makes it significantly stronger. It will consist basically of 3 parts. One part, one of its subunits, will deal with the education of trainees and advisers, the other part will be a state school for judicial officials. She's the same school that every state attorney, or judge, will need to finish. And finally the third one that applies to lifelong education. Lifelong education, especially in Croatia today when we are at the threshold of EU entry, has special importance and special weight and is treated simultaneously both by the law and duties of each judicial official. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44930	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Committee of Justice, chairman of the board, distinguished representative Ana Lovrin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44931	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will read the report of the board primarily because of the amendments the committee has proposed. Therefore, the board members unanimously supported the final proposal. The opinion of the Committee is that Article 41 needs to be deleted as the insurance of funds for the operation of the Academy is regulated in Article 4. It is proposed to delete the formulation referred to in Article 7 and the statute of the Academy as the activity of the Academy is regulated by law. It is proposed to supplement the responsibility of the Governing Council in such a way that it brings forward a proposal for annual accounting, and not to accept it, and the opinion of the Committee is that professional practical knowledge earns a relatively large number of points. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided, with 7 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament, to adopt the Law on the Judicial Academy with the following amendments; Amendment 1 to Article 7 of Article 7, paragraph 1 of the fourth sentence of the Statute of the Academy shall be deleted for the reasons why the Committee is considered if this law establishes the Judicial Academy, if the Founder of State is, on behalf of the Founder of Fundamental Rights, the Ministry of Justice, that then the law should establish the activities and not leave them to set up such an institution itself further determines what it will do. Amendment 2 to Article 13(1) of Article 13(1) of the first subparagraph of paragraph 7 shall be adopted by means of a word adopted for the reasons in which it was in the power of the Governing Council to adopt the proposal. Therefore, the Administrative Council should adopt a proposal for the budget of the Academy where it will be within the framework of the state budget. Amendment 3 to Article 34 of the final score score score resulting from the school admission exam may be up to 15%, the points achieved in the final exam may be up to 50% and the points achieved from the mentor score may be up to 35%. In fact, the opinion of the board is that in relation to the current high proportion of points that the candidate could achieve, I say, the basis of the points he scored on the admission exam for the school, the State School for Judges, and where he had already consumed his ranking at the receptions in order to receive in such a large percentage a two-fold benefit for the same job, given that during the school, in addition to theoretical knowledge, practical knowledge and that the mentor follows the work of the student of the school, which is in the capacity of a higher court advisor, that the daily evaluation of his skills needed except for the theoretical knowledge itself, so that his performance in relation to the lawyers, in relation to the conduct of the debate, etc., that this evaluation of the mentor who followed him over the two years should have a higher percentage of the stake than was proposed by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44932	Thank you. Do the other representatives of the board want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate and we're starting a club debate. The first is the distinguished representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44933	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. As he announced at the first reading of the SDP club, he will support the adoption of a final proposal of the Law on the Judicial Academy, believing that permanent education especially for those who decide on our most important goods, on dignity, on honor, on freedom, on property should be continued especially when entering the EU, there is much and too much work. But equally never, through any education, as much as it is on a high and envious level, should we abandon those ethical criteria that must be instilled in every citizen, especially those citizens to whom society has entrusted the most important function just to judge other people. Therefore, if we remember a little time ago precisely the pressure of the European Union, Croatia had to adopt a centre for education, law, a centre for the education of judicial officials, not the law, but had to formally establish it. In some decision it was established and it waited until 2002 when we secured the space and then the centre finally began to work with very modest means in the rented space, with one to two people. It was those beginnings. After 2004, there was a lot of talk about it. He even changed that center to the academy, and something similar wasn't worthy of that name. And that's why I'm glad, Mr. Minister, that you call things the real name of what they really are. When certain steps are taken, they also require that it be made public. That's how you get trust in the public. Because it's not helping Croatia by telling her she's better than she is, it's telling the truth. All at any moment, especially state officials. Therefore, in the expectation of exactly the beginning of work, that is, under this law, all the fullness of the jobs that the judicial academy will cover and through which school and education will be attended by judicial officials, it is expected that these funds will be initially sufficient. However, the question arises when, finally, given that far, far away in 2003, large space will be provided for our judicial bodies from the former military and it should have been put into office long ago. Unfortunately, that's what happened in one part, I say although he was already in 2004 and the square of justice was called, and there were still all the ruins around, and then people when they came to see in the model of the Square of Justice, they saw what justice looked like to us dreary. So, though she doesn't need to be in some kind of light uniform, justice always comes at the end and comes in the trinkets. But it doesn't matter. But it is also important that the appropriate working conditions are for those who decide on the most important of our good. Therefore, here is the support of Mr. Minister's pledge in the Government that for the purity of this call, that people who enter the judicial ranks, who end the judicial academy, the State School for Judges, indeed be what the citizens so eagerly expect of them, priests of justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44934	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44935	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of the debate, I will say that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support this proposal of the Law on the Judicial Academy, which is before us in the second reading, as a final proposal. This law therefore establishes a judicial academy as an institution where the initial education and training of candidates for independent, responsible, independent and impartial conduct of judicial duties, judicial education of trainees and judicial advisers will be carried out, and has continued the training of judicial officials as defined in Article 2 of this proposal. Like all member states, Croatia has, in accordance with the recommendations of the Council of Europe since 13 October 1994, been obliged to provide candidates before their appointment with adequate education for the conduct of a particular judicial duty. A strategic study adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in December last year, with the obligation to establish uniform and objective criteria for entering a judicial and state-run law profession, also provides for the establishment of a State School for Judicial Officials. It is precisely this law that proposes the establishment of a judicial academy as an independent institution. It is prescribed that the founder of the Croatian Academy is the Republic of Croatia, and the rights and responsibilities of the founders are carried out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the Ministry of Justice. Within the judicial academy, a state-level school for judicial officials will be established as a special establishment unit, in which initial training and training of candidates for judicial officials will be organised and implemented. The Academy has the status of a public institution and is registered in the court register, so it has legal personality. And that is exactly the difference between the legal status of the present, or current Judicial Academy, which has acted within the Ministry of Justice as an institution. This ensures not only its formal separation from the executive authority, but also its actual independence, which among other things confirms the way of appointment, i.e. the composition of the body of the management of the Academy. So the academy would be run by the board of directors, the program board. We believe at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community that this governance structure is well defined. It is precise and clearly established composition, choice method, decision-making method, and the competence of individual bodies, which is a prerequisite for successful management and management of the academy. It is also of paramount importance that professional training has been arranged at the State School for Judicial Officials, as it should enable candidates to acquire and skills for an independent, responsible, professional conduct of judicial duty. Of course, it is also important for the transparency of the entire process of admission to the state school that the objective criteria, the selection procedure, were elaborated precisely, so that the best and most qualitative after successfully passed the final exams would be appointed to judicial duties, so on the duty of judges or deputy state attorneys. These objective criteria are precisely regulated by this law and are defined in this section as quality solutions. Therefore, since it is a law that will contribute to greater professionalism in the conduct of judicial, or state-level lawyers of duty, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will also fully support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44936	Thank you. We move on to an individual debate, and we have a distinguished representative, Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44937	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with his associates. We have before us the Final Proposal of the Law on the Judicial Academy. As we said in the first part of the proposal itself, even here in this final part when the changes we have made through our discussions were introduced, but through those proposals that the law is a little nomotechnically done, I can only say that this Law on the Judicial Academy is a first and a major step, an important step for our country, for the Republic of Croatia and for all those candidates who will pass through the judicial academy. First of all, for reasons we face great challenges. And this judicial academy and the state school for judicial officials that we have heard about in this set of Croatian-European laws is a major challenge for both the judicial academy, both for the bodies of the judicial academy, for the Ministry of Justice and for all of us here in the Croatian Parliament and for our government. It is our job and aim to have a transparent judiciary, to have professional, educated, quality staff when our students, students here today present in the Assembly will pass through the Faculty of Law, when they are provided with those basic conditions in education, and this judicial academy is just an additional step towards the pursuit of excellence in the education of judicial and state law and training staff. In front of the judicial academy, it is a great task, which is to restore the slightly jagged reputation of the Croatian judiciary for these or those reasons. This is our fundamental objective, our important task and ours to say the final step in the conversion and closure of chapters 23 and a major challenge for the Republic of Croatia, as well as for all judicial officials who are in the judicial system today and for those who will become it tomorrow. The 30 million kuna allocated to the judicial academy is a very significant financial amount, but very small according to the results that will be achieved when we have the first effects of this judicial academy, and also as we have said in previous discussions of the state school for judicial officials. This law is nomotechnically arranged. The Unions are all the changes that we highlighted in the last debate. I just want this judicial academy when it really has all the results to be the pride of the Republic of Croatia and this Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44938	Thank you. And on behalf of the proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, distinguished Ivan Šimonovic, minister of justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44939	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would just like to thank all the MPs and MPs who participated in the debate. I thank you for their ideas contained in their discussions that I consider very valuable. As for the practical proposals and amendments, we will speak out on Friday when we vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44940	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met. We'll end this morning's session. In the afternoon we will begin with the fifteenth item of the agenda, and this is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 490. Good for everyone! Thank you very much. Fifteen o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44941	We move on to the final draft law on the judicial academy, that's the second reading of P.Z.E. Number 450. Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is concluded, after the debate has been concluded, the Government has submitted an amendment, in accordance with Article 166 of this amendment must be agreed by most MPs. Whoever agrees to conduct the debate on the amendment to the government, please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. It was unanimously accepted by 118 votes. I ask the applicant's representative to further explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44942	Mr. President, very short. A decision on the list of candidates who have competed for the place of state attorney and for the place of judge shall be taken by the State Judicial Council or by the State Attorney's Council. According to the decision we proposed the right to object to that list, the candidates had to submit and the objections would be settled by the State Attorney's, or the State Judicial Council, and we believe that this is not a good solution and therefore we are changing it in a way that an administrative dispute can be initiated against that decision which the Administrative Court would have to settle within a short period of 15 days. It's the contents of this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44943	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the government's amendment. There's no interest, I'm closing the debate. I'm voting the government's amendments by raising my hands. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Against? Restraint? And this amendment was accepted unanimously by 117 votes. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. First Legislative Committee on Article 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44944	We accept all three amendments to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44945	All amendments have been accepted, the Legislative Committee has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal. And the Committee on Justice 1st on Article 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44946	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44947	It's becoming an integral part. Amendment 2 to Article 13
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44948	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44949	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. I Amendment 3 to Article 34.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44950	The third would change a little if the promoter accepted. This means that in the total score of the final score, the points achieved in the school entrance exam can be up to 25% in the final exam up to 50%, and the mentor score can be up to 25% if the applicant agrees.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44951	Mrs. Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44952	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We accept this amended amendment in view of the subsequent argument that, in the after-school final evaluation system, this practical part is covered by the exam, except theoretically, we accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44953	Thank you. The third amendment was adopted in the text as explained by Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you very much. I am voting on the final draft law on the Judicial Academy. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The bill was adopted by the majority of votes, 107 votes for, 2 abstentions and nothing against, along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44954	Here we continue today's work of the Croatian Parliament, in the hope that the assembly will be a little fuller over time. It is next - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 490 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And you took the bill into the boxes. This emergency procedure shall apply in accordance with Article 161. Rules of Procedure, since this is a law on European harmonisation. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Justice, and you received reports from the Committee at the session. We also have amendments submitted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, then I'm opening a debate. And we go to clubs first. It is the first club of HDZ representatives and respected representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44955	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's a very short one. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of this law in an emergency procedure, so the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Attorney's Office, as one of the laws in the package which discusses the government's legal strategic decision on the establishment of transparent criteria for impartial, independent and professional justice, and the introduction and establishment of a state school for judges. Therefore, these short amendments are intervened in the existing law in the section setting out the conditions for the election of a deputy state attorney in the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, in the county state's attorneys and in the municipal state's attorneys, in such a way as to apply to the election of a deputy state attorney only to a person who has passed a public school, under those conditions as established in the laws that we have already discussed during today. It also extends a provision in the part that speaks when a judicial duty can rest for a deputy state attorney, a state lawyer, if he leaves, so unless he goes to the office of minister, State Secretary, he is added if he goes to the office of director of the ministry. Therefore, since it is a law that technically implements the government's strategic decision through these law packages, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44956	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. First respected representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44957	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Since the Law on Courts and the Law on the Judicial Academy has been applicable since 1 January 2010, and given the implementation of the reform of the judicial system and its harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union, it is also necessary to make certain changes to the existing Law on the State Attorney's Office which was adopted half this year. The proposed law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Attorney's Office provides for the same conditions for the appointment of a Deputy State Attorney to the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, as prescribed for the judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the paper lays down the condition that only a person who has graduated from the State School for Judicial Officials may be appointed as a deputy municipal attorney, and in particular is prescribed to take into account the sum of points set out in the list of championships that the candidates have reached in the State School for Judicial Officials. As the public school for judicial officials begins in 2010 and lasts two years, i.e. until the end of 2012, the application of provisions relating to the procedure for the appointment of a deputy municipal state attorney will apply from 1 January 2013. For its part, I support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44958	Thank you very much. We also have a request for an individual debate from the respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44959	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am personally or the SDP club will support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, finding that the provisions that change are certainly such as to further specify some of the things that could potentially cause some doubt, but it is good to find themselves already in this law. It should be noted that there was a lot of resistance from judges to pay state lawyers the same level equally with judicial wages. It was done several years ago, although I say there was even resistance from the judges themselves who made an observation that the work of a state's attorney was not as responsible as the work of a judge who ultimately made decisions. However, such an explanation has denied the time, especially the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act, when state lawyers therefore assume a new role, a much more extensive one than they had before, and then we were still in mind what would happen with amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, that state lawyers would practically become masters of the previous procedure, and that, according to their orders, the police, i.e. the orderly authority shall carry out tasks aimed at detecting the perpetrator of the criminal offence and ensuring traces of the criminal offence. But otherwise, as it has been resolved in the world, it is also known to be an association of European magistrates for justice, let's say in Italy a magistrate, it is a general concept for both judges and state lawyers. So, it's a good thing that we've had such animosity, we may have had some kind of misunderstanding between those two irreplaceable links in the repressive machine process, so, but who are still on the same task of finding the real culprit, and of condemning ourselves for us, and that there is one consensus and agreement on the profession itself. I would also like to point out, then, maybe we'll do a little bit more at the next point on the state's attorney's board, but maybe now it's here to point out that the state's attorney's office was more transparent in its actions, maybe it was easier for him to do so given how structured it was, so that they could put things inside the system, perhaps in a simpler, more efficient way than the situation in the judiciary. This is because candidates who run to join the state's attorney's office, according to my judgment, and also a colleague from the opposition that was sitting, here are colleagues of Tomljanovic later, that these proposals were unanimous, which means that the profession itself proposed by the best candidates and were almost in agreement with such decisions as were also concerned with the promotion of state lawyers but also at the removal of those and on the punishment and disciplinary responsibility of those who were not always in their work at the level of their professional and human e-mail. Especially when it comes to such important and important powers as the state's attorney has. So it's always about deciding whether to initiate a criminal procedure, and even regardless of what the outcome will be. If a State lawyer or his deputies at a certain point consider it their duty to order the evidence collected to initiate proceedings against a particular person or a particular person, then we cannot measure it against the outcome of the case itself, because why the trial, why the contradiction of the proceedings, but often there are misunderstandings in the public, so the acquittals are seen as failures of those who persecute. This is quite popular as it is, and we can see it this way, but the initiation of criminal proceedings does not mean guilt, on the basis of suspicion and reasonable doubt, does not mean guilt because it would then be an excessive court and in this context it should understand this sensitive and important role played by the state's attorney. But this is also the occasion that, when we are discussing the state's attorney's office, we have recently discussed the work of the state's attorneys, we cannot deafen ourselves as a legislative body to remarks that they are very careful towards other branches of government, according to the executive, according to the legislative authority, that they have inadequate material tools in terms of processing economic crime. That our criminal norms regarding sanctioning economic crime are from the age of socialism, accounting business, surplus shortages, money is missing. Today's conditions of market business have developed new opportunities for economic crime, which are ultimately seen as a failure to pay workers' wages, layoffs, large debts caused by suppliers and the state, and this is often not a criminal offence with us. Eventually, on the large writings of the media themselves that pushes certain cases, it is likely to experience some kind of initiation of criminal proceedings but often does not experience an adequate judicial epilogue in court. Because judges are reluctant, but why would they interpret existing norms so broadly, so a question arises to what extent those existing norms can extend so far that they embrace new types of dangerous social behavior that cause great consequences of material nature. I will highlight the example because it is still very current, it is that school example Calista Tanzia in Italy, it is one of the biggest bankruptcy in Europe in the last few decades, and if it had happened in Croatia according to existing regulations to no one at all, some would have said it was the wrong assessment of some business, no matter what the assessment is if it remains due to suppliers from month to year and does not pay them in time. Wrongly and falsely, the balances are being displayed, and that's possibly some kind of violation in our possession. These are the most dangerous acts, for they are the victims of their co-operatives, as he destroyed hundreds of small milkers in Italy, wrapped up in black entire families who had invested their entire assets in that small economy. And he pulled a profit, as we can now follow through the Italian media, and our media have published invested in art, art paintings, great values, Degas, Picasso, now deny them own property over them. But the Italian police are on track and they want exactly... such an asset that's acquired precisely in an illegal manner, sucking up property. We have a chance today to get out of our mother, to form new businesses, suck out the profits, this one stays like a shell and nothing to anyone. Because let's be honest that today's religious issue is the last hole in our play, so this should be done as soon as possible by Mr. Minister with associates, to find it as soon as possible, there are no more important things, it's the most important anti-corruption work, receiving and giving bribes, these are indirect things and subordinate to this. This is a crucial thing, and here's the right, and until today we've had one good stipulation in 2003 in that law novel if it's possible for it to be even better, welcome, we're going to all help. Here, I support the adoption of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, believing that those appointments and those actions they did never raise any doubts in public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44960	Thank you very much. This concludes our individual debate. The closing statement on behalf of the promoter has a respected justice minister, Dr Ivan Simonovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44961	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would now briefly refer to this whole legislative package that we have discussed and I would like to thank all the representatives and advocates for the help we have had, the support we had during the debate on this package and ask them to continue such support and help because the practical application of this package will be very complex and demanding. I would also like to mention that I am extremely pleased that the debate on this package ends today. Today is the day of the fight against corruption, and as for several issues raised on several occasions, the extent to which a step in criminal law needs to strengthen the instrumentation to fight corruption can announce that I hope that a platform for the new Penal Code will be considered in this month, which will be new and more modern and whose main news may be a more detailed normation of precisely economic crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44962	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I hereby conclude the debate in this agenda, and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44963	We move on to the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Attorneyship, there was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 490. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Justice. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. First of all, the Committee on Legislatives on Article 6 of the first amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44964	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44965	It becomes an integral part of the bill. and amendment of the Committee on Justice to Article 1, first amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44966	As with the Law on Courts, we would rephrase if the Committee on Justice accepted a university professor of applied law in a university professor of legal science.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44967	Thank you. Mrs. Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44968	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44969	This amendment was adopted in the text as explained and stated by Mr. Secretary of State. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law and the amendment to the Supplements of the Law on State Attorney's Office. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The law was adopted unanimously with 108 votes along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44970	We move to the next point, which is - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on ownership and other real rights, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 490 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in the boxes. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. So, according to Article 159. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings. You can submit amendments to this final proposal by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice, and you received a report from the Committee at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Zoran Piculjan, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44971	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here comes a small yet significant intervention in this Law on ownership and other real rights that actually do 2 things. First of all, the powers and duties of the building manager shall be extended in such a way as to prescribe the obligation of the manager to launch, as the representative of all special parts of the building, all proceedings before the competent authorities relating to the registration of the building on the building particle and all its special parts in the land book. In this way it becomes his official duty, becomes his contractual obligation, and is prescribed by the deadline, 3 years in which he should do so. It should be noted that building managers often have quite a few of these buildings in their care, which is why this three-year period is also an instructive period, but we seem to have an objective deadline within which this job can be done. This would practically suggest that the court does its part of the job, and that this job, a significant job of interning at a reasonable time, would be done for the benefit of all co-owners of the property. In addition, in the second part of the law, one intervention is actually intervened, the obligation is actually prescribed, extending the property resolution obligation still on social property. Such boredoms are recorded for your information and for the knowledge of 13 million cadastrian particles that are socially owned and the rest is really not great. He's only 4%, but he, that 4% is 480 thousand cadastar particles, and that's a particle that doesn't have very little value. This is primarily tourist land and therefore we propose to extend the deadline, which expires on January 1, 2010, to the principle of protection of trust in the truthfulness and completeness of land books by 5 years until 2015. That is, otherwise, the proposal stems from the state's attorney's proposal, and in previous discussions there have been proposals to shorten it to 3 years, somewhere the truth should be in the middle. It would be good to do this in 3 years, only the question is whether it can be done within such a period and therefore this deadline may seem more appropriate but we remain open after the debate on possible intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44972	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If I don't, I'm opening a debate, first of all by the clubs. For the HDZ club, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44973	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, my colleagues and colleagues. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Property and other real rights. It's really about one short but precise change and additions that we can systematically systemize in the end line, so on 2 basic elements or 2 basic changes. The first amendment concerns a new possibility for the building manager to now initiate all the necessary procedures before the competent authorities of the state administration and courts for the purpose of enrolling the building on the building particle and all its special parts in land books and of course being left to him by the basis of legal solutions up to 3 years. This provision should absolutely be supported, but it is necessary to review the very provision relating to the possibility of giving an answer to the question and what if one of the co-owners does not give in those co-owners’ communities in the course of the evaluation, so the rights of ethnic property, one of the co-owners, does not give consent to the possibility to initiate this procedure and in what way the building manager and other co-owners or the established owners themselves should act in such situations in order to achieve the objective, therefore the purpose of this norm itself, which is therefore to register, to register the right of ownership of real estate. In this situation, a specific right of ownership which we call a thorough property. Therefore, this remains an open question that may, in the context of these changes, be improved by appropriate changes. As for the other changes, we had an opportunity to hear in the opening explanation of what this is really about. Therefore, that deadline shall be extended from 1 January 2010 to 1 January 2015, and in particular the proposal to postpone the application of the principle of trust in the truthfulness and phasing out of land books. Therefore, that deadline is extended to 5 years and, according to the assessment and the position of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club, it is necessary to do so. You may still consider whether it is a five-year term, whether it may be a shorter term, but in any case, it is for such a solution that this deadline is extended, with a natural note or an answer to the question why it must actually take place in this situation to extend that period. Therefore, all activities show significant progress in registering social property and in the booklets of ownership over these properties. Another major or large part of the work in the sphere remains incomplete under that authority. So, of the total data is 13 million cadastar particles, the remaining number of particles that are kept as social property is really not great. It is about 4%, but there are almost 480 cadastral particles left for which, by exercising confidence in the truthfulness and fullness of land books on 1 January 2010, the legal certainty of real rights holders over these properties would be questioned. At the same time, it is necessary to stress the risk of the responsibility of the Republic of Croatia for damages that may occur. When we look at that problem in the light of the so-called. tourism land, not so-called rather than tourist land with the total square and value of tourist land, then it really seems to us more than justifiably prolongation of that period at a specified time, I say which can be less, but in which time all that remains to be done in terms of the recording of that segment of ownership rights. In line with all the above, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community proposes to support this bill, so the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Property and other real rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44974	Thank you very much. The second of the three registered clubs is the Club of Representatives of the SDP. On behalf of the club, the word has a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44975	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In the proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Property and Other Real Rights, it must be said immediately, and that I am speaking on behalf of the SDP Club, that this is a logical move by the Ministry itself, and then also the Government to react in a way that, despite the fact that since 18 September 2002, when we have concluded the Treaty so that the Republic of Croatia with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and then 27m euros that we have launched a land-book reform, in short, be told that the real situation in land books is in line with the real state, but also in the catastra and that the cadastra records that were closer to some reality is in line with the land-booked entries. However, as you have been able to follow since 2000, 2001 and then after the conclusion of this contract, these deadlines have constantly shifted, in order to gain confidence in land books, i.e. that this principle continues to rule, the principle of trust in land books, and that it remains more abstraction than reality. Although people can say that they see the importance of enrolling their own property to a greater extent, for the purpose of taking credit, to take up certain activities in order to place their property in the service, above all, and some family business and otherwise the economy. That mistrust in land books is denied by foreign investors, we've already made sure of that. We knew this was going to take a long time, but we didn't know it was going to last this long. But there are multiple reasons, first of all, because enrolment in land books is not mandatory. People don't have to sign up for their real estate. And it's all over the world like that. But why don't people sign up for their real estate? Once upon a time, they didn't sign up when there was social property, even when there was a possibility of private ownership, because it didn't mean anything. They didn't care. Whether the property is entered or not is entered in their name. Given the inability to do more of your own business. So we've had this problem of social property and nationalization and return. An Austrian who had never had social property in this sense of the words that we had 50 years of age, it took her 10 years to reshape her land books in electronic form. Although practically I should have rewritten it in such a form, only in another way to achieve a depiction. And that's why it took 10 years. And we have a job where there's no habit first of all of our citizen to go to the land-book office. But why is that? If we remind ourselves of the work of Ivo Andric, which describes the Travnica chronicle and that Tapi system and after the annexation of Bosnia and Herzegovina by Austria. So, in six months, one Austria managed to force a Bosnian peasant, as he says, to enter the court more often than the inn. So we need to look for some bypass ways, which is a way to motivate citizens to write down their properties, to force them simply to do so. But equally, no fictitious property is recorded. Because it is generally known that new age tycoons have been hiding their property, especially lately because of the fear of examining such assets. Well, then many grandmothers became dignitaries, and they were never even their ancestors. That's not possible out there. But that's why there are some detours that aren't in the Justice Department's portfolio. Because the Department of Justice can't just fight to get a real estate entry into the land books. There's another way to, say, solve Spain. With us, we still have the old Roman principle that enrolment is a constitutional nature. So, not the deposit of a document in the main book, but simply by enrolling it, it acquires property. And that these are just the legal basis for laying the I.D. in a book of papers. Some countries have solved it differently, but then it should systematically change it. Is there time and strength for that? But if this is how I think we're going to have to take that step to simply erase that principle that applies to Roman law that many countries have left to register as declarative, but not constitutive, which means I am already when the legal work is done that it is then acquired or lost property or some other real property right. I mentioned Spain. A agency was established in Spain, and the work for the state is carried out very expediently by the agency. Is this one big experiment that we could be involved in and that's one question that I'm asking myself, and then a debate in front of you. The courts are in principle against it, but these jobs don't go the way I say we'd like to. And then it's perfectly clear that both the ministry and the nice one here in the explanation, or the government and mentioned this date since 2002, not 2004 or the fifth one when it was said that it was then that the reform began. Unfortunately, it started a long time ago, but until today it's not over. But I forgot to mention, and that's not a waste, because it's also waiting for us to round the land for me to have a country the size of one Austria has five times as many cadastrian particles as Austria. That land books are particularly abandoned because of a large number of evicted persons, especially in distant lands. This problem is just multiplying over time. We also have a day in Dalmatia today where the latest entries on individual particles were made a hundred years ago and no one is interested in changing this land-book situation, because owners or heirs are not interested in it. It's about minimal possessions. The measures we took through the general tax law, by taxing unprocessed agricultural land, do not produce any results because they are unfairly and placed. Because a man who would like to obey that law simply isn't able to do with all the respect of the law because it simply doesn't have the means to walk at all, to get to his real estate. Maybe it's an example of our Zadars who have a hard time getting to their little plot on the island, maybe a hundred, 200 feet, 300 meters. So, in order to pay a ferry from your modest pension, come, process that land, and all that in such a way could be bought much, much cheaper. So these are the problems that we are facing, and that is why we have a bill like this that is not then but to support it. It specifically refers to the registration of buildings where building managers exist, where there is a thorough ownership, where owners are not interested in having the whole building registered, to register their special parts, and they as ideal owners. The only question remains a little questionable, given the constitutive nature of the enrolment itself, given that these are strictly personal nature entries. Because as much as the manager is under a positive law, the law of Article 379. The property law and other real rights are authorized to represent owners, i.e. co-owners, but in building management. Therefore, the question is raised as far as possible, so this management should be extended to submit applications for enrolment. Of course, there may be one theoretical doubt, but the right should be pursued by practical solutions and therefore the SDP club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44976	Thank you very much. Both the third club and the last to be registered is the HNS club, the respected representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44977	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law are short. It's about one of the shorter legal proposals we've had lately to discuss here. But these two issues, or two problems that they are trying to solve, are extremely important. Authorization of building managers to start enrolling buildings on a building particle, and then enrolling all its special parts in the main book is extremely important. However, what we are also concerned about is that there is no firmer mechanism that would further encourage owners to give consent, or where there is no solution, which if they do not give that consent. The intensity of this change is fine. We know very well that this will speed up many bookmaking procedures, but we also know that there are many cities where more than 60% of the total housing fund in the collective housing still stands in the air, i.e. on oranics, pastures, because they do not actually exist. The city from which I come is one of those who had as much as 90% of the total collective housing completely unlisted in land books. But I have to say that the role of local self-government can also be important. For example, in Velika Gorica, special measures of the city, we have achieved by special programme that the city is directly involved in this process by co-financing part of the costs, i.e. by financing that part of the process that ends with the reparcellation of land particles in the land needed for the use of buildings in the separation of public transport areas, in the separation of green areas from the former particles on which residential settlements were built, i.e. residential buildings, in order to enable the owners or co-owners of these buildings to go further into the process and to register. This is an extremely important issue because the existing situation is blocking huge capital. The property that lies in real estate, first of all in collective housing, is large and fully immobilized in many cities where people can't do everything and that they want to place this type of property on the market with real value but they have to sell below the real value or on the other hand. It's about real estates that can't be placed on bank records, no more book systems in banks, but only looking for a property list, so that it can activate the mortgage, or money that some people need to rebuild, some need to start a job, or some other needs they have to improve their own standard. This way will certainly speed up the process, but we fear it will not be resolved because there is no effective mechanism, nor sanctions for those who will not, who will not give consent. There's simply a whole series of cases where it's a simple caprice. They're people who aren't interested in buying their own property, and they think no one else is. But there is also a whole series of nursing homes where people simply have no money, no greater interest in solving it, hoping that their heirs will solve it. This is also about a huge number of garages, a huge number of business spaces. So all of this is now fully immobilized and in many cities the real estate market is almost paralyzed. In this regard, we would like to welcome these changes, but also to emphasise, as well as our HDZ colleagues, that we lack the part that would sanction, or predict situations where managers cannot get a sufficient number of consent. The second subject to the amendments to this Property Act and other real rights is the extension of the deadline within which it is possible to re-write former social property in the state. The book, that's right, but what was once social now becomes, in fact by one legal act, the law has become state-owned, but it's about entering it into land books. First of all, we have problems with the very process of governmental property, and that's what we have to say. Not only because the procedure was completely non-transparent and made it possible for robbery, malfeasance, poor conversion, poor privatisation, but also because he tried to legalise the previously committed kidnapping. What's social property? What was social property in this context anyway? It is more or less what is acquired, built by common means, from public facilities such as schools, hospitals, all other social institutions and so forth, to what was private and what was taken away. There should be no illusions. The company did not itself create any social property that could now qualify overnight as a state, because if it did participate in building a new value, then it was minor and could be measured in percentages. Whatever's going on with this and this property, we can see if we can get out of the cities in smaller places. I'll tell you examples from my neighborhood, from my constituency, where one of the bandit behaviors of a few lawyers has been allowed to take a narrow circle of people who have declared themselves a follower of certain agricultural cooperatives, to reach property that has never been owned by agricultural cooperatives overnight. So today we've got some big-time stuff going on that we like these so-called. agricultural cooperatives that have fallen to three or four people, 300 or 400 former members of agricultural cooperatives, are now registered as owners of half of social homes. Why? Because once upon a time they used a small business space for cooperative needs when the cooperative in that place played the role of retailing, and the supply of the population, so that by the principle of integrity or any other sparrow through smart lawyers and through large holes in the law, it now happened that the owner of half of the social home on which the roof, on which the entire infrastructure collapses, is a agricultural cooperative that does not want to invest a single June in the repair of these properties. And so we're actually suffocating and ruining social life in a whole series of small settlements, where the social home was the headquarters and shelter of social life, where no one has any interest in doing anything now, because even the one who owns it now doesn't care about it. And not to mention the problem of the land communities, which are the only form of private corporate ownership that was seized by the act of this House in 1947 without the right to compensation. And it's the only form that hasn't been returned to this day. It is now in the foundation of the State Agricultural Land and in the foundation of state forests and is used, exploited in the worst possible way. It's either in the worst and biggest schizophrenics, or it's become the target of tycoon, resellers, mechanics, people who have state agricultural land in leases, take incentives, and on that land they don't produce anything. And they see it as living and healthy people, heirs to the powers of these land communities, as in front of their eyes, what their grandfathers have created, what their fathers have created, what their great-grandfathers have redeemed today is failing. It is a mature time to launch a legal initiative, not only on the return of property to land communities, but also to enable them to re-establish and establish new ones. All agricultural experts, particularly cattle and dairy, prove that the moment the land communities were destroyed, milk and cattle production in Croatia was destroyed. And from the incomes of these came numerous public institutions, public buildings that we use today, forgetting who built them and why he built them. Because we're ungrateful. We are a generation of ungrateful people who forget how this property was created. And why isn't the problem solved? Because a phrase was sold, a demagogue steam, that it was a huge amount of land that the country would lose its agricultural land overnight and its forests. That's not true. Unfortunately, it is not true, for not one third of those who have the right of authority are aware of it or are interested in it. This showed an example of Slovenia, which at least had no law that we had from 1894 that regulated this issue to perfection, to the level at which the stockholdering issue was regulated. So here was the question of participation. Slovenia didn't have that law, it had legal practice. She's '94. The year passed a law, and to this day it has extended three times the deadline for the establishment and restoration of land communities. She hasn't even activated 25% of the capital in '47. the years were taken that way. And today we have a funny situation, that Istria and part of the Croatian coast that were part... The most normal have another legal practice and the courts in Istria return property to the land communities, and these other parts of Croatia that were in the Hungarian part cannot, because they had a special law and this law was abolished and their property was taken away. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are the problems we have to face because we need to be aware that what we call state property lies at the robbery. The state that lies on the robbed cannot be a legal state and will never be a fair state and that is the responsibility of those of us who remember it, who have the opportunity and have the opportunity to correct it. In this sense, I repeat, it is a mature time to launch a legislative initiative on the return of property to land communities and the re-establishment of land communities. I know a lot of people don't know what this is about, but there's gonna be an opportunity to get to know each other. It is certainly in our interest that what is still written somewhere today as social property is not the subject of a mugging or robbery and that no new problems, new injustices are created and therefore we support the extension of this deadline, and in that sense we as the Club of the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats will support these amendments and the additions of the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44978	Thank you very much. Now I have to say that I was a little hasty with the announcement of the last registered club, because, in the meantime, the HDSSB Club signed up in good time. On behalf of the Club, respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44979	Also respected Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. I was happy when I saw the name of this bill on amending and supplementing the Law on Property and other real rights with the Final Bill. As my predecessor said, Mr. Beus Richembergh, I thought these other legal matters would also apply to those segments of Mr. Richembergh's debate and I'm going to supplement them this time in this debate. Looking at the articles of this Act, which it has 4, is actually a proposal for a law on ownership and other real rights, a bill that speaks of the rights and duties of the manager of residential buildings in connection with the necessary procedures before the competent authorities of the state administration and courts and for the purpose of enrolling the building on the building floor and all its special parts in land books. We have a personal example of when I wanted to and entered an apartment in Zagreb between going to the field in 1992, to say to Gruntovnica in Zagreb, and then they told me that in the 7 days I did so, there was a changed legal provision by which I entered an apartment with belonging land. Afterwards, the law changed after 7 days and others who were in the purchase of apartments only entered an apartment without belonging land, clear that their price was even lower by about a third, and if there was a round-the-clock payment then their credit or payment rate was less by about a third. In view of the lack of wealth and the war situation and the very low income that I had at the time, I went in as I say in Zagreb to ask that I be equal to the other tenants who bought only an apartment without belonging land, but they told me that it couldn't, and what I did at the time when it was due was 7 days, was on the ground on Velebit that I could hang a cat on the tail. So today I'm paying for a third more than the others who bought the apartment in the same building with the same square. So much for that and the right to enroll, and that problem is today Mr. Minister is not solved. That may be an administrative problem, but here's to inform you that this problem has not been solved today. Someone's paying for an apartment with a property, and someone's only paying for an apartment with no property. But it will not be possible for those who have it, to ask whether they will be able to sign on to this land, because the law was later abolished and lasted only seven days, as long as it took for someone to buy a private villa here in Zagreb, from the political structures of the highly positioned, to then enroll themselves and the country. Isn't that right, Mr. Secretary of State? And as for what Mr. Beus Richembergh was talking about here, I have a memo from an association made up of people who lost the law in the former state, communist Yugoslavia, those who had a community of land. And these people write like this, given chapter 23 of the accession negotiations with the European Union, the question is whether we will be able to solve this problem and lock the book through this chapter 23 without solving this problem that my predecessor was talking about, which I am going to say a little bit about. Namely, the property that was seized by Croatian citizens during the Yugoslav communist rule has not been adopted in the Croatian Parliament since 13 years after the adoption of the property compensation law seized during the Yugoslav rule in 96. The National No. 92 was thus passed 13 years, this property has not been recovered or compensated. Should we be able to go to Europe on the basis of someone's robbery that was committed, as Richembergh said in 47 years of decision of the same, it is not the same but the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, this current law, which is in force as well as the implementing regulations, severely violates the principle of equality of all before the law by categorizing citizens on different grounds. Authors shall not be entitled to a market value compensation. Users buy property from non-owners, so-called. It's a box or a quasi-owner. In fact, some people have entered their property rights over these properties and then resell them and earn clear money that is not really theirs. The authorities are limited to the right to inherit. The users of these I was talking about are entitled to inherit significantly expand. Despite the Law prohibiting the transfer of rights of availability and the use of certain property in social property to other users, i.e. the ownership of natural and legal persons of the '90 "National Journal". and '91. The property is transferred to property illegally, unlawfully and unlawfully. And by decision of the Constitutional Court of March '93. In the year this law is in force until the establishment of a return of ownership to natural and legal persons or the payment of real estate fees taken from the basis of the legal provisions indicated in Article 1 of this Act. Everything that has been done in the meantime is against the law, so against this law. So out of 46 thousand and 309 property claims, 46 thousand 309, only 360 submissions or 90 per year were legally resolved. So, gentlemen of 46 thousand just solved 360. For a complete solution to all claims of property at that pace, it would take just 500 years. Legally adopted solutions have not been fully implemented because of obstructions in county property and legal relations offices. Let's say in Brod-Posavina County, a reference working on the issue has been on sick leave for seven years. And no one else says they have the right to handle it except that of the referent. So how will the owners, or how is the authority here even going to get their property back? Not at all. They addressed all the addresses, they performed certain actions according to various addresses from the executive authority to the representative authorities, but apparently there is no help and there is no information that only 360 submissions from 46 thousand and 309 speak about the problem. So hopefully, even though I'm saying too soon, that this title is going to cover this matter, here it is, but this is also one progress. These 4 articles on rights, i.e. on the duties of housing manager, but I hope Mr. Minister that you will, because indeed this matter I am talking about, I think in relation to Article 23 of our negotiating position with the EU, and I think that without solving and adopting really concrete acts or a legislative proposal or an initiative, a quick, tough, quick intervention in this direction, I am afraid that we will not close this chapter, and I would regret that we have a brake of EU entry. In any case, what is proposed here, these articles, so this one small, let's not underestimate, one small bill is to adopt, but I also ask for and on behalf of these people, on behalf of so many authorities who address various addresses, and also for Croatia as a whole, because Chapter 23 speaks of the rights of these people to return their property. So I hope that we will soon see the light of day and your proposal, the Ministry of Justice, to solve this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44980	Your Honor, I've let you talk about this topic because it's a very important topic for people too, but it's not the topic of this agenda point right now. So I'd like to ask you to stick to the agenda next time. I haven't been before, so I couldn't. We move on to an individual debate and the first is the distinguished representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44981	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Minister with Associates. We have before us this brief but significant proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property with Real Rights. What needs to be highlighted in this law is that there are necessary and justified reasons for the adoption of such a bill in order to address the situation in land books as quickly and better as possible. Mostly when it comes to the staging of property in buildings where there are several co-owners. Now the question that colleagues have raised and debated through clubs, which will happen if some of the co-owners do not give their consent to a building manager who, under this proposal of the law, gets additional powers to represent all co-owners in the design and resolution of land books, I think we need to find the most adequate solution in a way that may not be affected by these issues of personal ownership or constitutional-law issues. That should be solved through maybe here's an additional proposal on this bill. What I would still like to emphasise in this bill, which is that there is a reasonable reason to extend the period of application of the principle of trust in the truth and... of land books, in particular for the protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia, so as not to put the state in a position to possibly pay damages or damages to endangered rights, but also to protect the legal certainty of the rightholder when it comes to unregistered social property. Also given the large area of social property considered tourist land, and I see in this bill that it is more than 20 million square meters, it is necessary to extend the application of this principle by 2015. I would only briefly support this law and say that this is another step in solving the situation in land books. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44982	Thank you. And an esteemed representative, Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44983	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will try to return briefly on the subject of amendments and the addition of the Property Act that is before us today. I'm going to support the adoption of this law because it's good, because it points to some problems that arise. Of course, Croatia is in the interest of taking care of the land-marked state of full respect for the trust in land books. We don't have to argue a lot about when the land-book reform started, who did what. In fact, the reform of land-based books, the harmonisation of information in Croatia as well as in other countries of Europe and the world, has been going on for years. And that's why it's logical for one government to complete it the second or third, all on the same trail of land records. And it is true that the contract with the World Bank was signed in 2002, it is true that preparatory actions were carried out and indeed the reforms of land books began stronger in 2005 and further. A series of amendments to the law was passed and the Law on Property and the Law on Land Books, always with the same goal and on the same track. And today I don't think there's a man in Croatia who could argue that a huge job has been done in that part. This is probably what every citizen knows and sees when he clickes on the Internet and can read immediately on his land particles and possessions and ownership, equally doing his jobs in the land and book departments of Croatian courts. Of course, now someone will object that it's not always like that. It's not. For the reasons that there are complex land-book items and it is not always easy to solve a situation that has not been registered in land books for 50, 60 years, which essentially changed social relations in relation to ownership. So, a problem has been observed in the records of the floor property, mainly on buildings with lots of apartments. In this proposal, he tried to resolve the amendment and supplementation in a way that gave authority to the administrator, that is, the duty to initiate proceedings before the competent authorities of the state administration and courts for the purpose of enrolling the building. However, here, as we have heard today, we are facing a problem, which is if all co-owners, or all the owners of the floor parts, do not agree. Therefore, as an initial step, I support this amendment, but there should certainly be an effort to find a way, since it is the Chapter III of the Property Act which speaks of the exercise of power over the entire property during the transitional period, unlike the head which speaks of classical resolution and internship in co-ownership relations, when it can take place in the disposal of the co-ownership community and the establishment with the consent of all co-owners. Well, that provision also speaks when a co-owner cannot deny consent, but it is a situation that should go into litigation. Of course, it wouldn't be effective to refer to the case of all 100 or 70 co-owners in one residential building. So here I encourage and appeal to the Ministry of Justice to make an effort and to propose a more systematic amendment to the law in this transitional head of management of the entire property in the transitional period in which we would resolve the situation, to conditionally say forced entries of floor sections in buildings and to address the issue of costing, because the costs are not small. Therefore, there will always be someone who will not be willing to carry them. So much for this first part of the amendment and the addition. As for the postponement of the deadline for suspension of trust in land books. I certainly support this because it is extremely important to protect and it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to protect state property. In fact, I may have come to the conclusion from some of these discussions that it may be the end of the debate, and it may not be rude to say it does not understand what is being said. Namely, there is a suspension of trust in land books compared to that of the acquirer who acquired property on the property that was social property and did not remove social property from it until 1. 1. In 1997 until the entry into force of the Property Act, which means if someone on that property acquired property after that date and after that the third acquirer acquired that property, he had absolutely no ownership of that property but such legal work could be disputed and the property returned and not only obtained from the unconscious acquirer damages. Therefore, since there were certainly illegal acquisitions and illegal property records in Croatia, after all whether the courts, whether because of the different legal instructions that the courts received from legal professions, it was certainly illegal to register mainly tourist land on the tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of square meters of the most attractive country in Croatia, it is necessary to postpone this time-limit of trust in land books in order to resolve such legal situations and to have Croatia come to those properties which are such businesses, and also by such action of land-based courts and lost. But what I'm trying to say here and what the ministry could certainly take a more active role, and initiate with the government. Here I read this report on the work of the State Lawyers for 2008 saying that "The book of the right of ownership of the Republic of Croatia on real estate is of paramount importance for the Republic of Croatia as a whole and therefore is a priority job in the work of the civil administration department of state attorneys." It also states that "The Government of the Republic of Croatia, on 3 August 2007, reached a conclusion relating to the registration of the right of ownership of the Republic of Croatia, which was ordered by all state bodies, companies whose founder of the Republic of Croatia and all those who manage the general goods to submit all the information and documentation necessary to the State's attorney to submit proposals for the registration of courts". I still don't have to extend, one 4 or 5 pages where the State's Attorney's Office complains and sues that they're not being provided with funds, that the State's Geodesy Administration, which should do so according to the instructions, does not do so without compensation for the State and the State's Attorney's Office, does not do so to individual forest administrations, certain companies don't supply data for the purposes of the book, and then the State's Attorney's office just doesn't do so all the same. etc. to the fact that the book goes different intensities and during depending on the different practice of the courts and we have this, very often we can hear about the different practices of land and book courts as if each court judges and registers and implements books on the basis of some regulations passed by counties or local units, rather than a law that has been passed uniquely for all of Croatia. So here I am, and I am asking the Ministry to take a more active role here through the Government to animate all those who manage state goods to engage more actively in the delivery of documents to the State's Attorney's office so that it can carry out and register and register state property in land books. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44984	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Honorable Zoran Piculjan, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44985	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives and MPs. I thank you for this truly fruitful debate that lasted over an hour about a small legal intervention that actually caused a lot, a lot of me would say open a lot of interesting questions, pointed out the unfinishedness of this business that we started here and we are aware that we haven't fully regulated, but we have moved the situation, the legal situation and the legal way of solving, and we think it's well related to the manager. And we'll find out, we'll try to find one, it's not easy to find that legal solution to close that circle and sanction this deal unless it's done. In the second part about social property and its still existence. What's important is that in the implementation part we're actually going to make one I'd say an action plan to really be respected. And if it's all right, it's shorter than it's supposed to be, which is set out in the law here. We hope only and must not be longer than in 2015 because of the affirmation of these principles that are important to all of our citizens. Regarding all the other issues that you have raised specifically related to the land communities, with compensation, the return of property. We're aware of that here, too. We will do our best to find legal mechanisms to speed up these proceedings, administrative procedures, and then judicial proceedings in this area, together with the Ministry of Administration and the RES. It should probably expect here and one intervention perhaps not always the Ministry of Justice, but also other government resors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44986	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44987	We move on to the final proposal of the Law amending the law on ownership and other real rights, it was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 486. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on ownership and other real rights. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The bill was adopted by most votes, 104 votes for, 2 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44988	We're going to the 17th point of the agenda. It is - Final proposal of the Water Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 489 Thank you, Minister, Secretary, and I must say one of the few ministers who defended all his successfully proposed laws from the first to the last moment. Thank you very much. We move to the 17th point of the agenda Final proposal of the Water Act. [[Applause.]] Waters love silence, please! First and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 489. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was held: the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy and the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, representative Dragutin Lesar, representative Goran Maric and the Committee on Legislatives. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Zdravko Krmek, State Secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44989	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here let me say a few words in the introduction about the text of the Water Act. First of all, I would like to thank all the parliamentary deputies who have contributed to the debate over this law that was in your distinguished House in the first reading and I would like to say that much of your remarks, the improvement is incorporated into this text of the law. What I want to say at the outset is that this text of the law has been conducted by a broad public debate, so I would like to point out in the introduction that we have had consultations on this law with the county association, with the association of cities and municipalities, with the GSV who supported this text of the law. We also had this text of the law on the National Water Council. We discussed it with environmental organisations and also with municipal enterprises and with the economy, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and with all those who had the necessary needs. I would also like to say that the text of the law was on the website of the RES and that all citizens could, therefore, give their objections to this text of the law. What I want to say at first is that we fully comply with this law with the Framework Directive on the waters of the European Union and with the other nine directives which are responsible for water issues, i.e. water-economic activities. I think it is very important in the introduction to say, that implementation means these directives will ultimately cost about 53 billion kuna, and normally this is the foundation and basis for us to get some of the money from the European Union. At first I also want to add what we're going to define by this text of the law. This is primarily the legal status of water, water goods, water buildings, as well as the regulation of water areas, the adoption of a water management plan and other plans that are responsible for water management. This law will define the protection of water and water environments, the use of water, the protection from harmful water action and the management of risks of harmful water action. We will also define the types and contents of the horizontal acts, we will define all types of concessions. Here we have defined which institutions are responsible for water management. Here we have taken over from the Law on the municipal economy the activity of public water supply, i.e. wastewater disposal. We have also defined deadlines for the adoption of sublegal acts and all other issues that are important for water management. The aim of this law is to ensure sufficient quantities of quality drinking water for the water supply of the population, as well as the economy and also to protect people and their property from floods and other forms of harmful water. And what's most important of all is to achieve and preserve the good condition of water, to protect people's lives and health, to protect their property, to protect the water-dependent eco-systems. What I want to say in particular at the beginning means that this law has protected the water resources. So no one can get into a position to come into the ownership of water resources. And here I also want to point out in particular, so for all sources, what's most important is for surface water, and for groundwater, we've defined zones, so one area around the spring that will have water supply status or public water supply, and that's how we've disabled what's been going on so far, and that's that individuals buy the land where the sources are and then directly get concessions, and that's how they come into possession of these water resources. In this way the state will mean having the right to first-time, so anyone who owns the land will have to land within a certain range around the source will have to offer to the state to buy it. What I particularly want to add is water management plans. Here we have advice from the water area. So in every water area, there will be advice from the water area, which will include counties, cities, municipalities, the economy from that water area, all citizens will normally be able to make suggestions on what is important and what is of interest to them to do in the water area. So after that data is obtained, it's going to be going to make plans in water areas. Finally, the water area plan will bring the government of the Republic of Croatia for a period of 6 years. It is also strictly defined here how and how these plans will begin, all in line with EU directives. I would also like to add here that as far as this section applies to public water supply, i.e. wastewater disposal. This part that was taken from the Law on the municipal economy, we have here further protected the water system, i.e. the sewerage network, in a way that has become a public good in public use. In this way no one can come into possession of a water and sewerage network anymore. So far, we've had a few of us, so to speak, events, when utility companies went bankrupt and then we had to find a variety of ways, means that the plumbing, or sewerage network, is excluded from the bankruptcy. In this way, we have fully protected public goods in public use, i.e. water supply, or sewerage network. It is also important to add here that in determining the prices of water services, this is also now in the jurisdiction of cities and municipalities, means those who are co-owners of municipal companies, i.e. owners. So here is the obligation that every utility when it makes a decision on the price of water services, we can say that water prices and waste water disposal, will have to deliver that act to an independent water service regulator, which is the Water Services Council which will have the opportunity to put that act out of force, unless it is in line with the government regulation, which will tell exactly what can be found in the water service price structure. I want to say here, and here we have clearly stated that in the structure of this water service price, it cannot be the irrationality of utility companies, especially in part of the loss, means that they have on local networks. So this cannot, once this law has been passed, be able to go on the burden of citizens, because it will simply be strictly prescribed way and model means what can be within that price of water services, who brings it, how it brings it, and if it does not so, so the Water Services Council will be able to put this act out of force. I would also like to add here that this law has been defined in particular means that it enters the national water sector, what enters the regional and what enters the local water sector. This is in line with the EU directives, so we are here as far as the national water sector is concerned, here we have said that these are issues of protection against the harmful effects of water, i.e. the defence against floods. We also defined it as part of water protection, water use. What will be in the jurisdiction of the regional, or regional self-government is systems of detailed melioration disposal, i.e. channels 3 and 4 of the order, but here it is important to say that, apart from jurisdiction, means for this system of disposal and for irrigation systems for which they will be competent units of the regional self-government, they will also have the opportunity to obtain compensations that have been the State's income so far. So they will have the opportunity to dissipate these fees, they will also have the opportunity to determine their purpose, which is also defined by this text of the law. We have also defined in the area of cities and municipalities exactly the meaning of their jurisdiction in the part of the public water supply, i.e. the disposal of wastewater for the first time in this law and the disposal of coastal waters. What I would like to add is that we have defined here the institutions that will address all the issues that are important for the activities of the water economy. These are primarily "Croatian Waters", which are defined here, in fact, to which it is given in this law to worry about the flood defense system. It's a state plan to protect the floods. They are also responsible for the issue of water law and what is most important, means water monitoring for all issues that are important for the water economy. Here we also have the National Council for Water, and we also define its role, and we also have the Scientific Institute for Water that will deal with the meaning of scientific and professional activities that are important for the water economy precisely because we are a country rich in water, rich in water resources, and here this law will also define a single institution that will deal with these very important issues. I would especially like to add here that the foundation of this law will set up a company to deal with, means a state-owned company, which will deal with the export of water to third countries. Why does it matter? It is important for reasons because we as a state receive queries from other countries, among other things, that is the State of Israel and other countries where they have interests and needs for the import of raw water which they would normally use for their own needs in the part they need for the normal needs of their countries. For this very reason, we decided that this job on behalf of the state would be done by a state-owned company, just as it is done in other countries. So the state of Israel also has its own company that deals with it, and our goal is to get water from our rivers, from the mouths where it pours into the sea to lead to our ports and then balloons that are between 10 and 15 thousand feet [10 and 15 thousand m] cubic, they are later attached to ships and driven to those countries that show interest. I must say, too, that we had questions here, so how is this going to apply to our companies dealing with exporting water in drinking bottles? So there won't be any competition, they'll continue to deal with the work they've been doing and so far, here the state will be dealing exclusively with this business that I've been talking about. In the end, I would also like to say that we also had a debate through the parliamentary committees. We have adopted certain amendments on the parent Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. I think the president of the parent board will say something about that. We also had proposals for amendments to the Committee on Legislatives which we also adopted, and here I would also like to say that the Government will also have tomorrow an amendment on which normal Parliament will receive a report on time. Here's so much for the introduction, thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44990	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, I'm sorry, but we have one correction to the incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44991	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, you said there was a broad public debate on the bill and you put an end to it. You are the Secretary of State, and here you represent the Government of the Republic of Croatia and you should have said that with this law you came before the Parliament without the consent of the social partner, by the union, without the consent of all members of the Economic and Social Council, where after the removal from the agenda and the final decision-making unions did not agree to this bill because you excluded them from all professional talks as unfortunately individual committees of the Croatian Parliament. You didn't have a wide public debate, you didn't come with the consent of your social partners, and that's why the law is not to support you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44992	Thank you. We now have the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, President-in-Office Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44993	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. The Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament held at its 23rd session on 8 December 2009, discussed the proposal for a Water Act with the final draft law to be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 3 December 2009. The Committee shall comply with the provisions of Article 88. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament held the debate on that draft law in the capacity of the home working body and did not object to the proposal from the Proposer on the application of the emergency procedure for its adoption. The applicant's representative in the opening statement pointed out that the Water Law was adopted in order to comply with the rules of the water economy with the Water Framework Directive, as well as the Water Management Strategy. He also pointed out that this proposal included the comments and amendments made during the debate on the final proposal of the Water Act, which the applicant withdrew from the procedure of September this year. Members of the Committee have been informed of the written opinions submitted by the Economic and Interest Association of drink producers of Croatia and the Croatian Employers' Association on the proposal of the Water Act with the Final Bill of Law. Following the introduction of the proposal's representative, the committee members assessed in the debate how this law would achieve the general objectives of water management, and that its adoption should be supported. However, in the following debate, some members of the Committee assessed a legitimate objection to Article 89, which was issued by the Economic and Interested Association of Croatian Drinkers, which refers to the capture of water in the original form of more than 3.5 million spatial meters per year for its sale on the markets of other countries. In fact, some members of the board hold that it is questionable that this activity is declared of interest for the Republic of Croatia to exempt itself from the outcome and payment of the concession, and that there is a concern of uncontrollable sales of national goods. This provision could also lead to an unfavourable situation for domestic producers who have to enter into a concession contract and pay a concession fee to draw up water for the domestic market. In further discussion, the hope is expressed that the questionable provision in Article 3 of Article 199 of which the criteria for establishing a service area of supply of water are intended for human consumption of at least 2 million spatial metres. By applying this criterion, many small utility companies in the areas of local self-government units where the construction and for years successfully maintained the water network by contributing to the population will be left without a license to carry out the work in their area. The debate draws particular attention to the provisions of that law relating to flood defence. It is a concern that the confidence of operations to prevent regular and extraordinary flood defences that will be granted to the bidder in the defence area by applying public procurement regulations will leave without a job so far good performers in the defensed areas in local self-government units, so that the funds collected from the basis of this law go directly to the state budget, and not more so than before Croatian waters. Although proposed by the representatives, that bidder who will be licensed to carry out economic and technical maintenance and in order to protect from floods will have to employ 85% of the people in the defence area, however, doubts are raised about the transparency, licensing and control of the employment of that number of people from the defence area. In a further discussion, a representative of the Croatian Employers' Association and a member of the Committee, explaining the written comments submitted by the HUP, pointed out that an agreement was reached with the applicant and was proposed to support and submit the same committee as an amendment to that law. This applies to the issue of a certificate of consent on specific conditions of accession within 30 days and to the shortening of the time limit for the adoption of the implementing Regulation, which prescribes the minimum basic price of water services and the type of costs covered by the price of water services. At the end of the debate, the proposal was made to accept the comments and proposals made by the Croatian Employers' Association, which were agreed by the Committee's representative, submitted a number of amendments to that law. On the basis of the discussion held by the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament, it was unanimously with 10 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Water Act in the next amendment. 1 to Article 162 shall be added to paragraph 4 which reads as follows: "The water service provider shall be required within 30 days of the date of the orderly application, unless the rules on spatial planning and construction are prescribed to issue the certificate referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article or refuse to issue a certificate", and Article 246 in paragraph 1 point 14 after the word "in time", the words "two years", shall be replaced by the words "6 months". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44994	Thank you. Would any other board representatives like to take their word? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative, Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44995	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. At the very beginning of the presentation on the final proposal of the Water Act, I would like to say that the Club of Representatives and Representatives of the SDP will, on the principle of third luck, support this bill. At the very beginning of the debate, I would like to stress that this bill was impressively improved in relation to the document we discussed a year ago, and it is much better than the bill that has been in the parliamentary procedure for quite some time this summer to be withdrawn and that is before the plenary debate. In the SDP club, we are pleased that the proposer in this bill has respected many of the comments and suggestions made by the SDP club during the debate on the first variant of the law, but also many of the comments made by our representatives and MPs during the debate on the second version of the law on committees during this spring or summer. This refers to the following weak spots or blind spots of previous variants of the laws of privatisation and liberalisation of the use of water resources, insufficient regulation of the legal status of public water goods and water buildings ownership over municipal water buildings, the possibility of uncontrolled exploitation of mineral raw materials for the maintenance of water regimes, exclusively from the primacy of the interest of life protection and human health and their property over the interest of the protection of biological and landscape diversity and the protection of natural values in the implementation of works on flood defence systems, the establishment of water institutes and water regulation agencies, the institutions for which we rated in the SDP club as just another state body more for... political counterparts, and those in the glomary Croatian administration already have too much. It is now seen that we were right and that by dividing the water cake between the Croatian waters of the RES, the National Water Council, the Water Regulatory Agency and the Water Institute, we would get total confusion and chaos where we no longer know who drinks who pays and what we would certainly have tragic consequences for water protection in Croatia. It is well - known in the people that since tampering, five grandmothers can only be a lush child. At first, I would like to say that at the SDP club, however, we believe that Article 7 of the law on legal status of water should be changed. Why? Because we believe that the legal status of water in Croatia should be regulated as national rather than as a general good. In fact, if we leave the definition of water as general rather than national goods, we could open up a large manipulative space for potentially interested foreign investors who, in order to exploit our waters, could be called upon to a provision of general good. Taking into account the fact that in Croatia we do not treat water as a strategic resource, and what is evident from an inadequate system or even the absence of a wastewater treatment system, and because in Croatia as much as 60% of the population does not have a sewerage connection, which is a basic prerequisite for the construction of a waste water treatment system, because the export of water from Croatia is negligible, and when there is water, it is exported as raw materials in tanks and tanks, not as a final product in drinking bottles. The data show that in many cities in Croatia, the losses from the water network amount to a scandalous 40% and alarming lack of education for the population in terms of the importance of water protection. So when all the facts mentioned above are in mind, then the provision by which the waters are general rather than nationalally well needs to be deeply concerned. In fact, it should be borne in mind that many multinational companies in their constant search for new and secure ways of making huge extra profits in their business eye have thrown on water resources which, in their long-term strategic planning, fully justified and easily predictable as the most important strategic resource of the 21st century. This interest of multinationals in water resources is evident in a large number of examples from many countries in the world, and in most cases this interest unfortunately caused major problems. We should remind ourselves of the disastrous examples of many countries in South America where multinationals have entered the ownership of water supply systems, and this has led to an unremembered increase in water prices that are in the hands of only the profit of interested capital not perceived as a fundamental human right. It is not necessary to look at the remote countries of South America to see the catastrophic consequences of privatising water resources or water infrastructure. There is also an example in our neighbourhood in the new European member states, as well as in a whole series of Mediterranean countries. And for this reason, although we welcome the decision of the motionor who has listened to our request to prevent the privatisation of water resources or water supply infrastructure, although we welcome the motionor's decision to make it impossible by this law to quote the penetration of private capital against the water supplies in the SDP club, we believe that we should raise another protection mechanism or instrument, and define water as national rather than as a general good in Article 7. We believe that our insistence is not empty vaccination, and in addition to this, it should be said that many very powerful world institutions, such as the World Bank, are pressured to liberalise as many countries as possible in terms of access to water resources, i.e. to make it possible to privatise water resources. In addition, I was able to see for myself a little over a month ago when I participated in the Conference on Waters held in Cairo where representatives and representatives of the World Bank quite openly lobbyed to privatise water resources. In the SDP club, we believe that privatization of water resources in terms of its negative effects can be considered as harmful as pollution of water resources by waste water, regardless of whether it is sewage or industrial waste water, water pollution from agriculture, saltwater in freshwater sources and other so-called water. environmental hazards. I would like to stress that we are still concerned at the SDP club about the provisions of laws which now significantly restrict the possibility of extracting mineral raw materials from the body of surface waters. We are concerned because these actions have a direct negative impact on the state of the eco-system of surface water, and in this sense we believe that such actions should not be carried out at all except in truly exceptional cases. We all know that water eco systems are the most endangered in Croatia, and most of all because of gravel, which is unfortunately not directly prohibited in this bill. As a result, we are concerned about article 99, which speaks about the famous works of water maintenance, as so far a bad experience tells us that all the procedures in the waterway and the very large works with a significant negative impact on the water flow and the environment have been placed under the work. We are afraid that even a much more elaborate provision could benefit from gravel that is a practice with very harmful effects on nature and the environment, a practice that results in wounds in water layers, which enables direct introduction of pollution into the underworld. In view of the fact that the provisions of the applicable law did not allow for such gravel, and it has spread very widely, we must conclude that this was happening in the earnest aid of the state structures that were lurking and still lurking in both eyes to such illicit practices. In the SDP club, we are not at all convinced that this new law will satisfy such practice despite the good intentions of the promoter. And on this occasion, I will remind myself of a sad project that took Croatia's waters under the supposed alibi of flood defenses, measures of technical and economic maintenance of the Drava and Mura troughs to nine locations, which permanently devastated extremely valuable habitats. I'll also mention the works on the so-called. Regulation of the Velican river in the Park of Nature Papuk by the performer Stone-ingrad from about ten years ago, which Croatian waters justified necessary to defend the settlement Great from the flood. Today Vlado Zec, owner of the Stone-ingrad, is sitting in prison, and Croatian waters returned the stream to its original state last year. How much that cost doesn't know, and you'll probably never know. According to information I received from an authorised court expert only over a year and a half to about 120 artisans, 500 million kunas of illegal exploitation of mineral raw materials have been proven. It is interesting that no one, when delivering cheap gravel and sand, has the obligation to prove the origin of the delivered material, which in itself opens the possibility of delivering everything and everything, and most often illegally excavated or mined. Because of what is known today about illegal gravel and the robbery of Croatian mineral wealth, and the permanent and irreversible devasion of water and the environment, we can only wonder that USKOK as in the case of HAC has not already begun to investigate at least the tax evasion, non-payment of concessions, and illegal sale of gravel on the market. Unfortunately, these are not the only examples of such catastrophic treatment of Croatian Waters, and recently many users and Internet users with the help of very disturbing presentations were able to inform about many similar actions of Croatian Waters funded by so-called "the Croatian Waters". In fact, they are either often an alibi for the illegal exploitation of extremely valuable gravel or an alibi that justifies the existence of Croatian waters. The fact is that the sewerage of water, extraction of gravel and mineral raw materials from natural river troughs opens wounds in the water carrier, has a devastating effect on the balance not only of the aquatic eco systems, but also of all surrounding, and especially of the forest eco systems, which, according to the information I have soon, will warn the extremely serious scientific study of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. In view of the multi-annual failure to work and the robbery of mineral raw materials, the SDP club can only conclude that there is no real political will to put an end to the various suspicious concessionaries and those illegally extracting gravel and sand, that there is no will to conduct thorough and uncompromising investigations, and monetary and prison sanctioning of crimes that are wrongly applied to the environment, local populations and national economies. We are afraid, therefore, that we cannot look with optimism at the future, and today we must repeat that the state's behaviour towards water is maternal, and we are afraid that this maternal water relationship will continue in the future, despite this significantly revised bill that we are discussing today. Unfortunately in Croatia... We often testify that good laws remain only a dead letter on paper, because competent public services are unable or deliberately unwilling to ensure the implementation of the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We don't know if it's an oversight or a mistake, but we don't understand why Article 38 of this bill determines, to quote: "The Croatian Water Finance Plan is brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.", the end of the quote, when this so far was the financial plan of the Croatian Water, just like other users' other financial plans, the extra budget fees were brought by the Croatian Parliament. We don't understand why this power is now given to the government. And this time I will stress that it is regrettable that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not recognise the importance of education of the population for the rational and responsible consumption of water as a priority political issue, and what is evident from the fact that no public campaign has been carried out under HDZ, which would draw the public's attention to this extremely significant problem. That is why we are afraid in the future we can expect a new impact on the budgets of the population, i.e. an increase in water prices. It is unfortunately a modus operand of this government, i.e. financial discipline of the population, not education and resource savings. At the very end of the presentation on behalf of the SDP club, I would like to say that despite the improvement of this version of the Water Law, we need to be concerned for a whole series of reasons. First of all, the practice has shown that many of the laws of the Republic of Croatia are not respected, as well as the applicable Water Act, and no one guarantees that the state and irresponsible persons will not continue to behave in the future. Often, it is not a problem in the content of the law, but in its non-implementation, and it could become the fate of this law as well. Secondly, it should be borne in mind the devastating facts that speak of the water infrastructure in Croatia, 40% of the losses from the water network, 60% of the population without connection to the sewerage, and an even smaller number of populations connected to wastewater treatment devices, industry also without treatment of technological or industrial waste water. All this data despite ambitious provisions on mandatory treatment of waste municipal or sewerage waters, and those technological or industrial ones, with the awareness of the economic crisis and the necessity of significant investment in technology and the processing of these waters, do not provide a very optimistic picture of the best intentions of the law despite. Third, the chaos and riots that exist in the Croatian waters will be difficult to resolve with this bill, although it is the same through the installation of the provisions of the Public Procurement Act that tries to curb the apparent self-will that governs the state-owned enterprise. And that is why we welcome this law in the SDP club, but we warn that by passing a good law, unfortunately, it will not solve the chaos that has ruled the Croatian water sector for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44996	Thank you. It is next to the HDZ club, the distinguished representative Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go. By the way, we're going to be processing this law for the rest of the day. We have three more clubs, and we have eight individual discussions, so that's the plan for today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44997	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the Waters Act, the Proposal for a Water Act with the final proposal for a law, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament. Here's my presentation, I just want to start with the definition of water under the Framework Convention on Waters, and it says: water is not a commercial product like some other, but is the legacy to be preserved, protected and treated accordingly. This is what we often forget, and this very definition is also an integral part of Article 5 of this bill. The water crisis felt by a large part of the world is not caused by too little water, but by an inadequate way of water management, resulting in billions of people and a large part of the environment suffering from water shortages. Some estimates suggest that in the near future, some 3 billion people will have less than a thousand hundred cubic cc's of renewable water resources per capita per year. That amount, you'll agree with me, is really not enough. Croatia is fortunately listed in a group of water-rich countries, in which water and water-related problems have not yet been tightened and water resources are not yet a limiting factor of development, moreover, this is a huge development potential. The Republic of Croatia, by its availability and wealth of water sources, is 5th in Europe, 42nd in the world, and has exceptional development potential. The balance of surface and underground waters shows that the Republic of Croatia has large, unequally spaced and timed quantities of both surface and underground waters. I will remind you that the total renewable water sources are 35,000 and 200 cubic meters per capita, the drinking water reserves are relatively large, 90% of the water supply is drained from the groundwater supply. Today’s accession to the public water supply system is 78% and 43% respectively. Sources are protected by the establishment and maintenance of the sanitary protection zone, which now covers around 19% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Over ten and a half thousand square miles. Accordingly, water management authorities have powers, obligations, and opportunities to design quality and harmonised solutions sustainable for all parts of the water system and all activities of the water and water-dependent economy. I think this is an opportunity to remind you that a water economy has been organized in our area since 1876. The '95 Waters Act. It was the first step in adapting water management, political conditions, after the country's independence, and the amendments of 2005 began to bring the European Union's requirements in terms of a declared water management policy in the European Union. The adoption of the water management strategy of July 2008 established a vision, mission, objectives and tasks of state water management policy, but an open road for the full transformation of the water management system in the Republic of Croatia in accordance with European Union rules. But clearly defined strategic definitions, which are water is a natural wealth of interest to the Republic of Croatia, the possibility of privatising water rights, integrated water management and water division, decentralisation of water management, the separation of infrastructure from municipal companies has been excluded, concessions to public water supply units of local self-government. This Proposal for a Water Act, with the final proposal for a law, fully transposes the requirements of the legal property of the European Union into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, resolves the legal status of water, water goods, water buildings, water areas, management plans, water protection and the water environment, water use, risk management, public supply and disposal activities, concessions, control and administrative measures. But I also hold extremely important deadlines for the adoption of sublegal acts detailed and precise guidelines, deadlines, transparent water management system with clear competences and obligations. However, all of the above-mentioned strategic definitions of the water strategy including the strategic provision of public water supply and public disposal as activities of interest to local self-government units in the service area covered by the Water Act. Thus, 10 regulations have been transposed, mainly a directive, introduces a number of new water management instruments in the country, but valuable national experience has been gained in continuous and organised water management for more than 130 years. I would like to point out that this bill provides a successful combination between traditional water management patterns and new management instruments to ensure general objectives, which are to ensure sufficient quantities of quality drinking water for the water supply of the population, ensuring the necessary amount of water for different economic purposes, protecting people and their property from floods and other forms of harmful action, achieving and preserving the good condition of water to protect people's lives and health, protecting their property, protecting aquatic and water-dependent eco-systems. Individual targets have also been provided in 3 basic water management components, namely water and aquatic protection against pollution, water use and protection against harmful water action, which are incorporated into the normative part of the text. The normative part of the text of this proposal also includes the main instruments of integrated governance to achieve general and individual objectives. With regard to water management, the planning unity is established through the water management plan, which is regulated by Articles 36 and 37 by 2 clearly defined parts. So he had the Adriatic and the Danube that achieved regionalization, which also has a hydrographic division. Planning and management respects, respects natural but socio-economic differences in the area, and also ensures solidarity and the right to equal conditions for water development and management. The uniformity of the water system is also achieved through provisions on the unity of surface and underground waters, the determination of the quality standards of each and the other, and coastal as regards chemical and ecological status and waters of the territorial sea with regard to chemical composition. The principle of cooperation and exchange of information on border impacts in international water areas is also introduced. As regards protection, this means that the institutional framework for effective, preventive protection, regular, extraordinary flood defence, floods and ice, as regulated by Articles 115 and 117, is strengthened. In addition, in order to protect against harmful activities, water shall be established a prior threat assessment system that is regulated by Articles 110 to 113, and local environments shall be able to manage flood risks through a deforestation system and through the provision of supplementary income for these uses from the water contribution that is regulated in Article 12. In the area of pollution protection, a new system for assessing the real state of water is established through an assessment of the ecological function of the water stream, i.e. water and water-dependent eco-systems. In addition, the pollution protection system is strengthened through the establishment of a specific protection area, so-called ‘Staff protection’. vulnerable areas, and the polluter principle, are obliged to take care of its wastewaters and wage pollutants and combined approach are implemented in order to provide sustainable, socially functional and active water protection instead of restrictions. In preserving and finding sufficient quantities of quality water, protection is extended through the Institute of Water Goods over space, floor and surrounding the wells in the public water supply system and to the strategic water reserves for drinking. Furthermore, the principle of water law before any other type of use has been consistently guaranteed. With regard to achieving sustainability of governance in the water-communal sector, the legal possibility of establishing service areas as a technical and technological whole of the system and a legal framework for the adoption of uniform decisions is regulated. They shall strengthen the specialised functions of water service providers through the ban on carrying out commercial activities and through the prohibition of public water supply activities through the drive of local self-government units. We at the HDZ Club hold that it is good that special attention is given in the preparation of the law given to the strategic provision of a strategy that determines that the water resource of investments in the development of water systems and water management systems is treated as a first-class issue of national sovereignty and interest, and water as a human right, general good and national wealth. And as a result, it is impossible to privatise the water resource. The water is protected through the Institute of General Goods, which has special protection of the Republic of Croatia, cannot be a property and other real rights object. The sources of drinking water are protected except as a general good and as a real space through the Institute of Water Goods. If the water is good then the public water is good and as such is inalienable. The public water goods shall not be subject to the right of ownership, as regulated by Articles 8, 9, 10 and 11. The provision of services and the provision of public works in public water supply and public disposal activities other than the treatment of waste water and the cleaning of collection and septic pits cannot be given in a concession. National water buildings have been declared public goods in public use and cannot be subject to mortgages or enforcement, and in the event of bankruptcy or liquidation they are excreted in the ownership of local self-government units. The introduction of water management plans under the Water Framework Directive makes much more active the role of water management competent authorities and the participation of interested water users in their adoption. The institutional water management structure rests according to this proposal on the principle of decentralisation with clear responsibilities in the national, regional and local water sectors. In the HDZ Club, we hold that it is good that the national water sector is responsible for water management in terms of quality protection, redistribution and protection against the harmful activities of water management water for public water good further, as it is responsible for the development and management of the system of basic deforestation and irrigation and the implementation of national investment policy in the regional and local water sector. Water-community services remained in the jurisdiction of local self-government units from the regulation of the conditions to the definition of the water price, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia prescribed the lowest basic price of water services on the proposal of the Water Services Council. The role of the central government has been retained in only 3 frameworks, which is to prescribe a minimum price of water services, establish service areas and certify the supplier of water services. The coastal drain has been taken over in this bill, but the rate of water contribution to local self-government to finance these purposes has also been secured, and this is strictly defined for the purpose. We also believe that it is good that the regional water sector, which has its own counties, has the competence to develop and manage a system of detailed melioration disposal and irrigation, but has the opportunity to make a decision on the protection of the springs and to collect compensation for development, calculation and compensation for both the melioration drain and the irrigation. We also believe that it is good for the local water sector to bring together cities or municipalities to be competent in the development and management of public water supply systems, wastewater disposal and coastal waters and wastewater treatment. The reform of the municipal sector provides for the uniformity and improvement of quality of services, but more efficient and quality management of public water supply and draining and water treatment systems. With the development of an information system with the establishment of a scientific water institution and the establishment of a water service council, implementation of the programme will be greatly facilitated. It is good that this proposal is in line with other laws, the Law on concessions and others, and it is good that the proposer has shown a high degree of understanding and co-operation in accepting the observations of the group of the water-communal sector, the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen, the Association of Employers and other participants in the construction of the county, towns and municipalities community. Here's finally yesterday's Economic Social Council supported how we were informed about this bill. Here's what I'd like to conclude once more. Therefore, there is no privatisation either direct or indirect, no water resource or water-communal infrastructure, water management is decentralised. Public water supply, disposal and wastewater treatment facilities are public goods in public use, water utility infrastructure cannot be subject to mortgage or enforcement, and in the event of liquidation or bankruptcy, the supplier is excreted. All the cracks in this thing seem to me to be closed for a break in private capital according to the water supply in this proposal. We at the Croatian Democratic Community club believe that this proposal on water is good.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44998	Thank you. It is next to the HSS Club of Honorable Representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u44999	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. This Final Proposal of the Water Act brings a whole series of newspapers and regulates the issue of water and water goods in a way that preserves national interests while at the same time allowing water and economic use to be used. It is proposed that the applicant be brought forward in order to comply with the Water Management Strategy of 15 July 2008 but to comply with the legal acquis of the European Union, the General Water Directive and 9 other directives relating to the problem of water. In addition to the surface and underground waters, the provisions of this law also apply to coastal waters with regard to their chemical and ecological status, as well as to the waters of the territorial sea with regard to their chemical condition, which does not affect, for example, the maritime code and other regulations governing the protection and conservation of natural marine resources and the marine environment. And the issues of standards, water quality, monitoring, etc. are fully regulated. All drinking water sites on the territory of the Republic of Croatia are also covered by the protection measures of this law, including those in the territorial sea, which prevents the possible misuse of these resources and fully implements the principle of this law prohibiting the privatisation of water resources. We at the HSS Club advocate and support that water is protected as a common good, because water is a general good that is not reserved for just one generation but must remain for future generations. It is a good thing that no one can exercise the right of ownership or other real rights. We also welcome the protection of water land through the Institute of Water Relations, i.e. public water goods. Water sources for writing are protected through both institutes, such as water and as a real space. Above the floor and around the spring as springs of mineral, thermal and thermal mineral water. This protects the springs of natural mineral, thermal and natural spring water. Subject law provides that if the land on which the land is located is a source of state property, the area protected as a public water well is one hectare around the spring, so that the source is generally at the centre of that area or extremely smaller area if the land is owned by the Republic of Croatia on which the source is less than one hectare. If the land on which the source is located is private, the area cannot be less than 400 or more than 450 square metres around the origin, so that the source is also generally at the centre of the space. State-owned land is defined to a greater extent to prevent the sale of valuable sources under the agricultural land label. It is also precisely defined that the water structures of the Republic of Croatia built on public water good share its legal destiny at the head of the unity of real estate and construction. Other buildings built on public water wells need to be governed by the right to build. In terms of ownership of municipal water buildings, a provision of the Water Management Strategy has been respected, and the buildings are public well-being and in public use. They own utility companies. Today, when we look at percentages in almost 90% of cases or cities and municipalities today, about 10% of cases. They cannot be burdened with these same water structures, nor can they be subject to enforcement. They shall not be subject to liquidation with the sole aim of preventing privatisation by means of a detour. In the event of bankruptcy, they shall be excreted in the property of the city or municipality. Many are the advantages of this model. Among other cities and municipalities, they choose who owns it, and the buildings are protected by law. All of this has been strengthened by a provision by which no one but cities and municipalities, and the county in regional water supply cannot acquire shares in municipal public water supply and public sewage companies. We would also like to stress that the hydroelectric investors owned by the Republic of Croatia or the legal person owned by it include Croatia's electricity industry, including the space of accumulation owned by the Republic of Croatia as a unique building. It should also be pointed out that the provisions on how the public participates in the adoption of the Water Management Strategy and the Water Management Plan have been elaborated since the beginning of this draft. The Chapter and the Protection and Quality of Water shall be detailed in accordance with the Water Framework Directive. The quality of water intended for human consumption as well as natural mineral waters, natural spring waters and table water placed on the market in bottles and other packaging is regulated by food regulations. Other sub-legislative acts and rules on the limit values of waste water emissions by the competent minister under Article 60(3), which also regulates the conditions for temporary release of waste water above the prescribed quantities and lower emission limits, the criteria and conditions for the collection of treatment for the release of municipal waste water, and the exceptionally permitted release into groundwater. The act on the determination of sensitive and less sensitive areas in Article 49 creates assumptions for the application of the EU Directive on municipal waste water, which is the most financially demanding EU water directive, which stipulates that any agglomeration of more than 2000 inhabitants has certain, i.e. some degree of waste water treatment is defined as mechanical, biological or chemical, whose form will depend on the natural characteristics of water and criteria which are assessed by sensitive and less sensitive areas. Let us not forget that the EU does not allow the Adriatic Sea, since it is a closed sea, to be considered a less sensitive area and thus directs us to at least another level of purification. It means biologically, which is far more expensive both in construction and maintenance. Article 70 provides that emergency and sudden water pollution measures are to be adopted in the event of exceptional and sudden water pollution. For the general use of water, no specific authorisations or concessions are required. It is understandable and common that each of us himself can use rivers and lakes for swimming, sports, recreation and the like, unless they are carried out as commercial activities such as rafting or some similar activity. The same applies to the capture of surfaces and groundwater from the first water layer up to 10 metres deep, rural wells and similar things for the basic needs of household drinking, cooking, heating, maintenance of cleanliness, sanitary and other household needs. We at the HSS Club also believe that selling water for drinking in the original form on foreign markets is a strategic activity, i.e. activity of interest to the Republic of Croatia. It is about the capture and transport of drinking water in the original form of more than three and a half million spatial meters a year, which is about enough to supply the city of 60,000 inhabitants for its sale on the markets of other countries. The initial interest in large quantities of raw drinking water exists, but no new legal persons will be established to carry out this activity until real business is concluded. When real business is concluded, these activities will be carried out exclusively by a company established and owned by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This law strictly stipulates that a legal or natural person who, in the area of importance for the maintenance of the water regime, is unlawfully extracting, digging sand, gravel and, similarly, is obliged to compensate the state for damages and to resuscitate the devastated environment according to environmental protection regulations. We also advocate a provision that provides for a solution to compensation for damages to Croatia's waters in the administrative process in accordance with the regulation adopted by the minister responsible for the water economy, thus achieving effective damages and avoiding long-term court disputes. We believe that the prescribed inspection supervision and the intended high criminal penalties will have a preventive and powerful effect. Provisions governing water protection against harmful effects shall be prescribed for each water area and, where appropriate, for its parts of Croatian waters, make a preliminary assessment of the risks to floods, flood risk maps and flood risk maps. For the water area and, where appropriate, parts of the water area and sub-slopes, on the basis of these maps of Croatian water, provide flood risk management plans. This clearly defines the planning and other bases for integrated management and the successful implementation of flood defences as emergency services and activities of particular importance for water management. It is important to note that this bill is in line with the Public Procurement Act. The work of preventing regular emergency flood defences that Croatia's waters have so far directly entrusted to legal persons registered and authorised to carry out operations of particular importance for water management will be awarded in accordance with the rules on public procurement for a period of four years and with a period of adjustment of one year. The objective of the final draft law makes it clear that concessions for the economic use of water, concessions for public services and concessions for public works are clear. In order to protect against the privatisation of water resources, concessions are prohibited to carry out public water supply and public disposal activities. The Water Management Strategy may award concessions for public services to carry out wastewater treatment activities or the right to carry out or design works in waste water treatment activities and concessions for public services to clean up septic caves and collection pits. No more concessions for the use of water for public water supply purposes are granted as it does not meet one of the main criteria of European Union law. Aquaculture is not excluded from the need for concessions for the reason that it does not benefit from that activity relating to the payment of concession fees and other concession obligations, unlike other activities related to water resources which face the same or similar difficulties. The concession is not necessary only for the Republic of Croatia, units of local or regional self-government, legal persons whose majority are owners, and owners for irrigation from surface waters up to a total of 5 hectares of land of the same owner, or for irrigation by groundwater, which is affected and drawn on the same land to a total of one hectare of land of the same owner. As a consequence, small quantities are supported by the national irrigation project adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The public water supply and disposal activities are carried out by public water service suppliers, with the exceptions mentioned in the previous concession point, with the aim that the principle of full reimbursement of costs from the water services of the General Water Directive is not the most affected by the socially endangered citizens. The service price must contain a basic price and a social price. This is the price paid by socially endangered citizens for the quantity of water delivered necessary for the basic needs of the household, and that the social price cannot be higher than 60% of the basic price of the water service according to the principle of social acceptance of the water price. The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall, on a proposal from the Water Services Council, prescribe, in addition to the lowest basic price of water services, the type of costs covered by the price of water services and the economic business criteria of the supplier of water services. We positively assess the provision of Article 261 which extends the time limit for the installation of water flow measurement devices and for the automatic sampling of large industries by one year. It is also important to mention that instead of the Croatian Water Regulatory Agency, what was the proposal in the Water Act previously addressed to the Parliament for consideration of this proposal, the Council proposes for Water Services, consisting of nine experts in the field of public water supply and public sewage, water management, public finances and other areas. Named and resolved by the Croatian Parliament. They shall be provided by the Ministry of Labour and Professional Affairs so that all the professional bases and bases for the decision of this Council will be prepared by one of the two water administrations in the composition of the competent ministry. The Council's task is to control the legality of the local components, the price of water, the prices of the water service, the development fees and the charges for accession. In this respect, the Council shall be entitled to suspend the enforcement of an illegal decision. The possibility of establishing a scientific water institution to provide scientific support and water management is foreseen in accordance with the water management strategy in this law and the law governing the financing of the water economy. Finally, I can say that the HSS Club will vote in favour of the adoption of this law, because we believe that this Final Proposal of the Water Act significantly improved the protection of springs from privatisation and pollution, that it allowed taxpayers and water users, but also the total space, to co-operate through the advice of the water area. And finally, once again, the HSS club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45000	Thank you. It's the turn of the HNS club, the esteemed representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45001	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here I will be really brief and I will say at the very beginning that the representatives of the Croatian People's Party will also support this bill. We are pleased at the HNS that this proposal contains the comments made by the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy in the form of amendments, on the Final Proposal for the Water Act of 6 months this year, which was withdrawn from the procedure by the Proposer. But the HNS club and this bill have some objections, so I'll take them out. In our opinion, the provision of Article 89, which proposes the sale of water in the original form of other countries’ markets, is very questionable. That's not what we've had so far. Let me read article 89. Water capture intended for human consumption in the original form, in quantity greater than 3 and a half million spatial meters per year,... is sold on the markets of other countries, the activity is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Republic of Croatia shall have the exclusive right to water capture and to carry out the activities referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. The activity and involvement of water referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article for the Republic of Croatia shall be carried out exclusively by a company established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia is the only owner of the company's business share. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Where the business share of the company referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article is transferred, the company shall, in whole or in part, lose the right to catch water and carry out the activity referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. What does the Proposer want to achieve in this provision in an explanation of such an important matter? In fact, it is about water capture intended for human consumption in the original form, meaning unprocessed unflashed water, in quantities greater than 3 and a half million cubic metres a year, which is intended for sale on the markets of other countries. This trade in national goods, on foreign markets, is an activity of the interest of the Republic of Croatia. This activity is carried out by a company established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and there is no need for concession but only a water licence, so there is no concession fee. There's a whole series of questions opening up here. What about the capture of water in the original form of less than 3 and a half million cubic metres a year, where there is no interest in the Republic of Croatia? Can other entities, entrepreneurs, sell the same on the foreign market? This gives the possibility of uncontrollable trade in national goods and is decided by the Government. And where is Parliament in this story? What is the upper limit of the quantities of water affected for sale abroad? How much water can be sold annually? The government can sell on the foreign market as many cubic waters as it wants and doesn't account for it. As this fits in Article 5, which says water is not a commercial product, as some other products, but is the heritage to be preserved, protected and used wisely and rationally. Water is managed according to the principle of unity of the water system and the principle of sustainable development, which meets the needs of the present generation and does not endanger the right and possibility of future generations to achieve this for themselves. The company that would therefore be doing the job of selling, which the government has yet to establish, will not pay concession fees. What's the cost? And the proposer says that this law does not require additional funds in the budget. This provision opens the door to all abuses. We at the HNS Club think that this provision should be deleted, as well as an invitation to the same in Article 163. Furthermore, Article 36 provides that the government is to adopt a water management plan for a period of 6 years, which is published in the "National Journals", and then it is a good provision in the same article to submit a report on the implementation of this act to the Croatian Parliament. The next question we have is whether it is good that the provisions on the Croatian Water Regulatory Agency have been thrown out, and that so important jobs are to influence the price of water and give an opinion on the legality of work entrusted to one ad hoc body, which is the Water Services Council. Furthermore, it is good because of the recession and lack of money, that it is only possible to establish a scientific institution in the water field in the future, and it is only two years from the entry into force of this law, and not as before the establishment of the Water Institute. Article 37 provides that the Government shall provide for multiannual programmes for the construction of municipal water buildings, but shall not specify for which period. Is that one, two or three years or more? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in Isn't it too long a 15-year period for which a horizontal permit is issued? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45002	Thank you. And we have another club, which is HDSSB, the distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45003	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, even though this proposal of the Water Act is indeed one very, very important law, and judging by the material that we have received and in which there are 263 articles, it is indeed comprehensive. I would say that everything that flows is covered, so all the water that is, is covered by all the rainwater and springs of drinking water and all those and underground springs and rivers and lakes and even some of the shores or seas. Mr. Djakic, apart from the gemist, did not cover it. Now, when we look at these of ours, this law of ours, then as my colleague said before me, it's very well noticed, that it's actually partly the opposite. Article 5 of this Act, which states that water is not a commercial product, and at the same time in Article 89, it really sees the commercialisation of this, so water, for the purpose of how it writes exports, in quantities not less than 3.5 million cubic metres. Article 7 clearly states that water is generally good and has special protection of the Republic of Croatia. I don't think there would be any opposition or any particular problem if, with this wording, the "general good" said "national good". It is true that water is something that belongs to the world’s wealth. Today tomorrow, a strategic oil product that has been indeed the main strategic product of these last centuries, water will become or already in the world is actually the basis of survival, the basis of the survival of the state. We are by the wealth of water in the Republic of Croatia, drinking water, in a very high place. The tenth in the world and fourth in Europe, proportional to its size. So, the size of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And given that, we should be happy. However, when we look at our proposal for a law that is comprehensive and after the withdrawal of that proposal from June this year, because of the improvement of certain articles, then I still find certain to say a grudge, and I think we will also make constructive remarks about these articles. So, from Article 7 in which I say that since water is spoken of as well as the heritage to be kept, protect both wisely and rationally used and for generations that come behind us. And that's why I don't think it bothers the formulation that it is then a national good, for our generations, the Croatian generations that come after us. I do not see why it was not respected and such an opportunity in Article 7 to say that it is a national treasure, that it is a national good, clearly that water and general good, so everyone, it is clear. However, when it is looked at and when it is distinguished which is the difference in some legal regulation or the possibilities of manipulation in the formula of general good, the public good in relation to national well-being then you and I and we all here know that there are differences in that definition. Article 38 also states that the financial plan of Croatian waters is drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the Budget Law which regulates financial plans and extra-financial users and immediately brings the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the next page of the financial plan of Croatian waters. And when the other day I set up or proposed an amendment to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in connection with the draining to the so-called so-called the mini region of 5.6 Slavonian municipalities at the border between Vukovar-Srijem and Brod-Posavina County then I got, or for the water purifier in Nova Gradišca or for the East Slavonia highway then I got the answer that it is not in the budget but that I am interested in that item, so in the budget, in the calculation of Croatian waters. Now here we have clearly defined that the financial plan of Croatian waters is brought by the Croatian government. So who am I to propose the same amendment next year since my amendments were rejected in that segment, am I proposing that in the Croatian Government on the budget when it is voted or should I say that I push it towards Croatian waters? When it comes to the protection of water and the aquatic environment, it is clear that protection of water from pollution is important for the preservation of human life and health, for the protection of aquatic ecosystems, for the protection of nature, and then for the prevention of the deterioration of water quality, protection and improvement of surface waters, coastal waters, groundwater and the provision of safe and uninterrupted use of water for different purposes. Now that we look again at the objections regarding those unfortunate and poorly controlled and undersupervised, they say that it is important to monitor or control the exploitation of mineral wealth, and this time, too much in this sector of gravel and sand, then we see that there are, here alone, witnesses to such exploitation and on the river Sava near Slavonski Brod either upriver or downriver from Slavnoski Brod, so from the Šamac and everything according to Davor, we see that there are also on the river beach in Slavonski Brod damage that has been caused precisely by such works. Not only is there poor surveillance in terms of works being carried out either in terms of excessive or irregular exploitation that comes to the point of saying the destructive or erotic activities of water on the coast and on the ground, but whether it is a matter of financial inspection where it is indeed, and perhaps not Croatian waters in charge, but in any case the control of each type of exploitation is very necessary, it should be really in every sense maximum that this is precisely why this exploitation would not have led to the consequences that I have listed precisely in the protection of water from pollution or from this type of exploitation. I'm not going to name companies that are here in our area, four companies that take advantage of exploiting sand and gravel, one of which for four years has not paid a single kuna fee. But I'm wondering, and there's something wrong with that. That's why I'm asking you to take action, too. And here's the law that regulated it pretty much only if it could be implemented so that it could be one really strict surveillance and inspection of all these activities. When it comes to flood protection, then in this bill you said that regional, local and regional self-government so municipalities and counties are implementing project systems work, irrigation systems, meliorization and maintenance channels of third and fourth categories I literally wrote down what you said, and partly harvesting and... for water springs. Croatian waters carry out certification and negotiation, preventive, regular and extraordinary defences against floods. In the existing system, so far there has been a public tender were certified performers for 34 water areas in the Republic of Croatia and for each of these water areas was one certified contractor of these water works, I would say companies specialising in this particular segment. So, it's not the same thing to do one road, and it's not the same thing to do things that are related to water and everything that water produces and brings stream regulation, etc. Now in this bill, there are said to be more certified performers in the defence area. We've had cases like this in other public state-owned companies, and we've often had forms of convenience in these formulations. So, more certified performers, and then it's decided how someone says, by grandma and by uncles, who gets it. Now we have really specialized companies doing such a job in these 34 water areas. After all, it is now the tender procedure or direct contracts immediately at the start of proceedings under the current regulations. In the new bill, the public tender will end. And we all know the good that all possible malfeasances that all the problems have arisen just because of the use of the concept of public procurement and what can come of it. Therefore, these 600 million kunas intended to defend against floods are either regular or preventive, I fear that new sharks will be the subject of some other public companies that reveal everything that is being discovered and that performers will also appear to us by foreign companies, so I am afraid to question the work of 4 to 5 thousand employees, workers who are currently doing this job in certified companies in the Republic of Croatia. Is that what we need, is that how we should vote, is that behind some of these articles of the law a little hiding, it needs to be seen, whether maybe tomorrow's Construction Fund will move on to making channels, streams of regulation, etc. Then we'll have a situation like that. Some will establish companies that will receive a certificate to bring workers from Romania or I don't know where and will regulate our channels, our rivers, our streams, etc. That's what I'm afraid of, Mr. Secretary of State. Because here's the time we're running out, the HDSSB club is really a law that's big and pretty much regulated it all together, but because of these things that I said at the end of the HDSSB club will be held back in voting for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45004	Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired time to report a debate of 10 minutes at 17.42 p.m. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is as usual representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45005	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Director. To begin with, there's a Mr. Minister I'd probably get an answer from him. Mr. Secretary of State, tell him my question. First, mineral, thermal, thermal springs of water that INA came up with on its wells during testing and search for oil and gas. In the context of this law and contract with the MOL of all state contracts with the MOL. Whether these sources are protected by this law or all of them, all the wells that are not exploited, which INA has now made the ownership of MOL and only MOL because they have the only management rights in the INA—and manages them. So I repeat, mineral, thermal and thermal mineral sources found by INA in the context of this law and contracts Croatia has concluded with the Hungarians. Only 15 countries in the world have a situation where you can stick a pipe into the ground and draw drinking water. Only in 15 countries around the world can you draw, stick, dig a well and use drinking water. One of these 15 countries is Croatia. Someone once said water is important, water becomes a weapon. That's how strategic it is, it's pure, it's pie, it's underground, it's underground, whatever you want. And that's probably why he was so interested in this law, and since he's so praised by my predecessors, I won't praise him because it's not my job. You've boasted enough yourself. In my debate, I will remain in that part of the law, Article 115, and further on which I speak about the defence against floods and immediately say my amendments to this bill are in agreement with the trade union of agriculture and the water industry of Croatia. And if they were accepted, I could vote for this bill. And now to explain why. In the 1960s, Croatia had huge flood problems, not only the city of Zagreb, but much of Croatia often had huge flood problems. And then the people who decided to design a system of public water companies. The flood defence system Croatia today has is one of the best in Europe. The Western states have long, long ago defended from the flood, whether it's about prevention, whether on a regular or extraordinary basis, commercialized. Have you managed to count billions of euros in flood damage in Slovenia, Italy, France, the Czech Republic. Did you write down the number of dead in those floods? And these countries began to study Croatian experiences to change the concept of defence against the flood, because they realized that the pure competition brought them non-quality dikes, unquality maintenance, almost no prevention and so on. Now what we have a good example of Europe is changing and we are privatizing the entire flood defense and bringing it to the market. I don't know why. 34 defensed areas and 34 certified legal persons doing the job so far, I believe that 5% of them will no longer do the job because that part of the mob that realized that on the roads and highways would be less work sniffed out a new 600 million kuna cake where it could come up with a solid profit. And it will be companies that will have everything on paper, and in fact it will be sub-operatives and subcontractors in question, which will receive certificates, and giving a certification solution under this law is exclusively within the jurisdiction of the ministry's innermost circle without transparency and public control. We will have a situation that we will have 50, 60 certified legal persons who will compete in the contests, and in certain areas, we will have not one, but two, three, or four because everyone has to satisfy some cousin, uncle, godfather, neighbor Stef, Franco, and then we will have a problem with floods, floods even, not serious floods because the 600 million cake is terribly interesting. We will have after the construction harmony of the dam and Croatia will be full. This is about a serious national issue and interest and because of the amount of rivers, streams, streams and everything we have in Croatia and I oppose such a concept for two reasons. First, Croatia has a good, solid flood defence system from preventing regular extraordinary maintenance and we are changing it to God only because of harmonising with Europe which changes its system and seeks an exit similar to ours. And in a few years, they'll be in the way of our system. Similarly happened to us in primary health care with homes of health. We're the ones who kicked their ass. The whole of Europe is coming back to them, going to them. We here something to praise how the whole system has worked so far. The company can't defend the Međimurjes, no matter what their certificates are. It's got to be a domestic company, domestic people who are in emergency because you called it an emergency service, got emergency status. They have to be people who live there 24 hours. It must be a company whose machines are where they got the job forbidden area, not on Krk, on Vir, on construction sites. No one will convince me that someone who wins the contest will keep the reserved machinery park in Međimurje without being on construction sites throughout Croatia during the construction season. And then if the drought is all right, but if the water comes by chance, rains, streams, cracks, then there'll be panic. And then the extraordinary flood defense will cost 10 times more than this 600 million. And under these circumstances, normally those who are not certified and those who do not have a contract will have to be called, but they have mechanisms and capable people. It's a 10-year certificate, not a 4. Framework competition and agreement not at 4, at 10 years, then we can believe that the job has been given to someone who will long-term define themselves for it. One defense area, one contract, one legal person, one emergency flood defense service and nothing more. That's not true. Even if Bajic told you there must be competitions, I know that you have consulted with the state's attorney, or your minister. He's wrong. The state's attorney is wrong when he claims this should be a public tender. No, I don't. This can be solved in a single price for the entire country, certificate, one... area, one legal person and 10 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then we can be sure that the model we have can continue and improve with approximately the same amount of money. We're playing with something that can cost us 10 times more than that. We are only playing with something because obviously our negotiators were not able to prove or show that we have a better solution than Europe has. You have not convinced me, by the text of the law, by reason, or by your introduction, that the model defense against the floods you propose is better than the one we have, nor that it is cheaper, nor safer for Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45006	Thank you. We have two replicas. First distinguished representative, Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45007	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Here is my colleague, Lesar, who spoke in detail about the flood defense system, and I agree with what was said, that we have a well-organized flood defense system in Croatia today. If we remember in 2002 when there was a large water wave, immersed both in Dresden, and Prague and in 2006 when the port in Budapest was flooded. We know that in Croatia, in the Danube, we have managed to preserve our places from floods, and this testifies that such a system as it is today is certainly good. It is my view that the issue of flood defense must first and foremost be a matter of defence of national interests. From this aspect of the area, regulation of the area must be addressed with due attention. It seems to me that through the new law proposed, this system will still be violated, that we will not meet all the needs that we would like to meet, and that is also a certain amount and type of technical equipment that those who do this work are in a place where we defend ourselves from floods, to be there day and night, and that they can provide really adequate protection to the entire population. So it seems to me that this model that we have today, that one legal person is chosen through a public tender and then doing the job of defending against floods, that this system is good and that it needs to be kept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45008	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45009	Comrade Petyr, I agree fully with you. You mentioned the example of Budapest well. The same water wave could have done it in Croatia, which it did in Budapest. And I could remember now, he was Prague before that if I wasn't wrong. ... That's right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I also remember in northern Italy, France, Denmark. All this was due to their commercialization of that part of the job at the time when liberal Europe felt that the market was a magic wand from God the day that would solve all problems. But now there's only one problem, so help me understand that. Listening to the debate on behalf of the HSS club, it was said that... that the HSS will support this bill. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I want to believe that a representative of your club meant by accepting my amendments, then I could really support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45010	Thank you. And another replica, Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45011	... I absolutely agree with all these replicas and exhibitions concerning the public water companies of the former and our defenses. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, here's two days ago or something less at this pace we live in is hard to remember. American television recorded a contribution to the flood in New Orleans, that is, in the South United States. At the rescue, the construction of new systems is being built by an American army. It is particularly emphasized that bad work has led to the breakthrough of the embankment and water protection buildings, as some companies have been saving and doing so in a way that is most commercially worth it. Now they are not only working on construction, but also on designing, analysing and proposing certain measures to protect against future waves that could bring some new Katarina, the second, the third, the fourth or the fifth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45012	Thank you. But you've replicated something that wasn't said at all in basic exposure. And the answer to the nonexistent replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45013	My fellow vice president, yes, I mentioned quality, and my colleague, Hanzek, referred to exactly that. That's right. The quality not only of the embankment, but of all defense systems is the most important thing. And I think that, I'm trying to remember after '65. whether non-quality was caused by any major flood in Croatia. Unquality. I didn't find that. When you're on the market and you make a contract, the question of quality control, and the contract is short-lived, so he goes after the profits to other construction sites and moves machines and people. No surveillance, no control fees will ensure that. And that's why I express my deep regret for the fact that what we've been building and building for years, we're leaving so easily because of this devilly interest in fighting for those 600 million kuna cookies a year, we can ruin billions and billions. And in Europe there were a few of those Catherines, Elizabeths, as they were all called. The only ones we've successfully worn just... Even Slovenians had far bigger problems than Croatia with it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45014	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It is up to the honourable representative Niko Rebić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45015	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The new Water Act is adopted in order to comply with the rules of the water economy with the Framework Directive on European Union waters, and to align it with the provisions of the Water Management Strategy. This latest proposal of the Water Act, which has undergone major changes compared to the previous one, speaks of the wealth and strategic importance of water in the future of the Republic of Croatia. Because as this law says, water is not only a commercial product, like some other products, but is an inheritance that needs to be protected and protected. This bill prescribes that the waters are generally good and as such have special protection of the Republic of Croatia. The legal system of water goods, as well as the way of use of the Republic of Croatia, are also being regulated. Furthermore, in this proposal, the law of the water source for drinking for public water was protected as a general good for the first time in our legislation and as a real space around the source. Therefore, the public water well is public good in general use and owned by the Republic of Croatia and the public water well is inalienable. On the public water well, no other person can acquire ownership by means of a dossier or by other means. Therefore, all attempts to penetrate private capital according to the water supplies have been eliminated by the proposal of the Water Act. This proposal provides for the legal possibility of establishing service areas as an area of technical and technological integrity of the system and a legal framework for the adoption of uniform decisions on the provision of water services. The technical and technological unique building of public water supply and what seems particularly important to me is the supply of water intended for human consumption of at least 2 million spatial meters per year. This would reduce the number of water suppliers, rationalise business, but what is the most important price of water would be the same throughout the service area, for example for my county Split-Dalmatia means that, for example, the price of cubic water for households would be the same in the densely populated Split as in the poorly populated islands or Dalmatian Zagora. In order to protect against the harmful action of water, the works of preventive regular and extraordinary flood defenses that Croatian Waters have so far been directly entrusted to privileged legal persons would now be no longer a direct contract but would go into a public competition and I am surprised that someone has an objection to this. So I'm wondering what would have happened if we still suggested she stay on that? What caused the dispute in the current debates when it comes to the Water Law was certainly the most reluctance to extract gravel and sand. In this particular law, this was resolved in Article 97 in a way that prohibited the exploitation of gravel and sand in the area of importance for the maintenance of the water regime from both non-renewable and renewable beds. Therefore, it cannot be made more clear, therefore the exploitation of this proposal is not, if there is an exploitation it will be only in the necessary works that remain cannot be installed in the corrugated but simply that quantity will be sold at market prices. So I think that's the most valuable thing we have, so this is important to me, so the price in the service areas is going to be the same for every cubic meter in the populated cities as in rural areas that are underpopulated, which have huge nets, huge losses, and we could probably never have the price to be able to come up with the unification of utility companies. And what does that mean for rationalization? Well, I don't think we should talk when we have one manager or we have 50 managers on one system, so this is a good law for me, and I'm going to support it anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45016	Thank you. Now it's the honorary representative Goran Heffer's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45017	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the Water Act is like several previous laws that we have passed during this term, indeed one of the most significant laws in the Republic of Croatia, and it has obviously caused a lot of polemics and various references, since it has come to the parliamentary procedure, returned, etc., but here we finally got it. The clear reason is that it is water as I would say to the largest potential of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the strategic resource as it has already been pointed out several times, but also that part of Croatia's economy where we can be competitive both the EU and the whole world. This law brings a lot of new things, and it's obvious why he's been withdrawn several times, so from some kind of debate. And to take advantage of what is professor. Tomic said on the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, the biggest thing in all of this is that it is definitely said by law that water cannot be owned and that any use of water should be in some way through concession, lease or other regulated. But I will not debate much in principle about the law, but I will look back at some articles, although I have received some answers on the board, but I think it is important to re-emphasize them because I see colleagues as much as I do in many things as I think the problems of these articles point out. So first of all, Article 19 says that selling land particles that do water good, which are not in the water goods system, could most often be agricultural particles that are with some water streams or with water sources that can and most often are private property, are sold in such a way that the owner is obliged to submit "Croatian waters" offer in case he wants to sell this land. I must remind myself that a year ago, so on December 15th last year, we passed a Law on Agricultural Land, which, in the disputed and crowded polemics of Article 81, speaks something similar where it says that the owner of agricultural land that wants to sell his agricultural land is obliged to submit an offer to the Agricultural Land Agency. Not to say that these are, therefore, 2 articles in 2 of the law in their own cohesion because it is difficult to do both, and the question is, in fact, to whom is the owner of agricultural land that is to say on agricultural good, or on aquatic good, and it is not in the aquatic good system, to whom should he submit an offer if he wants to sell his land? Therefore, it would not be necessary to exclude one item, or one article of one law, or is contrary to the article of another law, because, in addition to the confusion of the owner of agricultural land, it will also cause me to state my opinion on the inconclusiveness of access to the whole problem. The following article is obviously the most problematic, since I have heard it in two discussions. It's actually a set of articles from 116 to 118. It's a matter of flood defense. I listened very carefully to the debate of my esteemed colleague, Lesar, and I must say that I fully agree especially with the part where he said that in Međimurje the best of the Međimurians would defend. I also because I come from eastern Croatia, so I say from Slavonia that the best Slavonia will defend Slavonia from the flood of the Danube and all other rivers. However, Article 116 states that the implementation of flood defence operations is subject to the best bidder by applying the public procurement procedure for a period of 4 years and that it must be certified for such jobs within 10 years, and in a segment where I have asked the question assuming that it will somehow be covered, this bidder would need 85% of the workforce to say so, or the people involved in these affairs to have from the local area. But I'm more concerned about one other article, which is Article 118, which he says actually prescribes the obligation of legal persons and citizens to participate in the flood threat area. "If there is a danger in such a range that the defence cannot be carried out by the legal person who won the job in a public competition." So what I'm not going to say is confusing but suffering is a matter of some kind of assessment of the scale of danger. We should wait for the flood to come, and then if it floods, then they'll realize the danger range is so great that it couldn't. Or will someone at the end of the day when God does not allow such a thing to happen, ask the people of that public institution, or what will be called from that company that will handle flood defense activities, and why did you not have more construction machinery in that area? Why didn't you hire more people? Why are you no longer a bag of sand and what you bring in for such a flood? At the same time I am aware, and it says in the law to make estimates, to make certain documents, to cover everything paper as we usually say. But this is really a very sensitive area, and I'm not surprised that a certain skepticism has been expressed so far on all committees, so I'd say from those of whom we've received a presentation of the law. Or what we were talking about here, what with some capacity in local self-government units that so far have been doing preparatory activities, preparing and even supplying certain funds, was doing a particular structure that had the sole task of engaging at some point in time, so on the alert, all possible potentials from that area. So not estimating the extent of the danger whether it's large or small, but when the flood threat is present, then everyone is at their disposal. So I'm concerned about the role of the local self-government unit, which is in the first place and certainly much more interested in defending against the flood than any company that got it through the public tender procedure. In some things, the public tender is financially justified, it is certainly the most objective choice between two or more options. However, in some things there are other conditions or other circumstances that should be respected. Not to say, I also told the Committee on Development and Reconstruction what would happen if God didn't really give such a flood, where neither this company would be able to protect it nor even by hiring the entire population, so there were any claims in the form of proof whether the potentials were satisfactory or not. And here's another short question, Article 199, so service areas that talk about a limit of at least 2 million feet [2 million m] of water per year. What about the country water lines? We have country water lines that have their sources have their own network, they function well, there's no problem. They're run by a local self-government unit, some utility company the only problem is they don't have the capacity of 2 million kunas. Can they be as such established as a service water supply area. Since we see that there is an exception so where this is not due to geographical conditions possible in the public water supply system to do or it is simply so that certain rural water supply companies are more... or if they want to in whatever form they want. So a few observations and a few questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45018	Thank you. We have one replica of Honorable Representative Vlatko Podnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45019	Thank you very much. Ma colleague Heffer, when you're talking about the collage between the Law on Agricultural Land and the Water Law, I'd set up another college and that's the Law on the Forests. Here he says that in property legal relations, Croatian waters will register for public water well-being in... area. But also in Article 123 when it comes to the protection against erosion and streams, that is, Article 126 prefers deforestation and says that it allows for deforestation, i.e. the cultivation of forests, cutting and growing forests. It is therefore illogical not to introduce the catastrous, and since it is on state land, it is illogical that in the public water wells, or in the indusic area, Croatian forests cannot be registered as owners, i.e. as masters of forests in the area. Because according to the Law on the Forests of Croatian Waters, they cannot manage forests in the Industrial Area, because they must then start their own company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45020	Replica response, distinguished representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45021	Thank you very much, fellow Podnar. Here you have pointed to a detail that I do not have to be honest about, but it is obvious that it should have been from various sectors, because agriculture, forestry, water supply and everything else is covered. So in certain areas, they were to sit together and perform. And here we were yesterday, having a very blue area issue, so not intrusive, unsettled, but blue areas when we were talking about fishing. Therefore, there are also certain issues in this sector that are related to the Water Law. But here, it's simply a question that can be added through the amendment to this law, so see what it can do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45022	Thank you. It is now up to the individual debate, the distinguished representative Ivan Bogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45023	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, Madam Director, colleagues and fellow MPs. Since this debate has already lasted. A lot more has been said, and I'm going to shorten maybe what I think is most important, but at first I'm going to say that I support the adoption of this law. So it is clear to all of us that the Water Act represents an extremely important legal framework for the meaning of the area covered by it, i.e. the importance of natural wealth, and the management of this natural wealth. It is known that all life forms and all human activities depend more or less on water, this unique and irreplaceable natural wealth, unfortunately limited quantities characterized by the imbalance of spatial and time distribution. That is why the importance of human water relations is clear, and the importance of the quality of the documents governing this relationship. I also find it very important to stress that water is because of the importance they have in Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by the sea, agricultural land, forests and other natural economies of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia which has its special protection. This provision, of course, also follows the proposal for a Water Law which clearly states in Article 7 that water is a general good which, because of its natural properties, cannot be owned by anyone, and that they have the special protection of the Republic of Croatia. It is important to point out that our country is grouped into a group of countries that are relatively rich in water, and whose water problems are not sharpened and do not represent a limiting factor of development. For the sake of everything previously said, I would like to emphasise once again the need to adopt a quality law which I consider to be about water and other rules that will allow water management authorities to implement a quality harmonised and sustainable policy for all parts of the water composition and all their users. On the basis of the applicable Water Act, the Water Management Strategy was adopted in July of last year as a long-term plan document defining guidelines and strategic definitions for the development of the water economy. It is important to stress that the content of the Water Management Strategy is fully in line with the Water Framework Directives and other relevant European Union Water Directives. For this reason, the strategy constitutes a fundamental basis for the creation of the Water Law and the Water Economy Financing Act, noting that all strategic provisions have been introduced and detailed in this final proposal of the law. Therefore, the adoption of this Water Law is also necessary in order to fully comply with the Water Framework Directives and other relevant directives of the European Union, to comply with the provisions of the Water Management Strategy, the horizontal harmonisation of national legislation, the Law on the Communal Economy, the Law on concessions, the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Environmental Protection Act, etc. Respecting all the above proposals of this new Water Act, the strategic provisions relating to water protection have been elaborated with special concern to the management of water quality for human consumption, to ensure sufficient quantities of drinking water for the water supply of the population and for different economic purposes. In addition, particular attention is paid to the management of risks of harmful water operations, in particular floods for the protection of human life and health, the protection of property, the environment, cultural heritage and economic activities. The law also states that the use of water is permitted for each person under conditions and within the limits of certain laws, and that water must be used and used rationally and economically. This means that each user's water is obliged to use water in a way and to the extent that water is kept from spilling, as well as harmful changes to its quality, and in a way that will not prevent the legal right of use and use of water for other persons. Therefore, the law lays down the general application of water, i.e. equal rights under equal conditions for all users. Finally, I would particularly like to emphasise the fact that the Final Proposal for the Waters Act is much more detailed and legally more regulated. Because of this, I believe that this law will indeed contribute to the promotion, and to the achievement of the basic objectives of water good management in the Republic of Croatia, which means that I will personally support its adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45024	Thank you. And an individual debate by the distinguished representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45025	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Director. So over the course of this year, many international conferences discussed water. Of course, the theme was sustainable water management as an invaluable resource that is both limited and necessary for the lives of all of us. Of course, the importance of water has been recognised by the United Nations, which declared World Water Day on 22 March, but it is also estimated that more than a billion people in the world today do not have access to drinking water, and the forecasts say that by 2050, as many as 2/3 of mankind will live in areas that will be debilitated by water. The consequences of climate change for which man is partly responsible and, of course, extreme weather phenomena such as various hurricanes and storms, and long-term droughts are also a major problem for water sustainability issues. Of course, this will also make some areas based on this experience that we have today affected by devastating floods while other long - term droughts will make it impossible for not only humans to survive but animals and plants to survive. Water shortages therefore become a problem that crosses the borders of the national states and threatens to sharpen existing ones as the outbreak of new conflicts to which we are witnessing. As the water crisis becomes a global problem, each of us is invited to actively engage in its resolution. This means that water should be saved, not wasted, that special care should be taken about the general quality of water observed from all points of view and when we talk about drinking water and when we talk about water from municipal industrial plants, when we talk about water being released into nature, into water streams, lakes, seas. And I must mention that the Adriatic is the cleanest sea in the Mediterranean and that we should stay that way if we want to have long-term income from tourism. Also, there should be taken into account the problems we have with the estimated water from the dump or... water that does not pass through the wastewater treatment system today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to the 2003 UNESCO research, Croatia is at the availability and richness of the water source in the very high fifth place in Europe, which is our strategic advantage. It is my view that we must change our relationship to this precious liquid, not only because, over time, the quantities available will decrease, increase prices, but also because of future generations. Of course, the question arises as to how the new Water Law responds to all of my earlier thesis, and how this law refers to the objectives of the water management strategy, adopted by the Croatian Parliament, to which the law is in line with the legal acquis of the European Union and, ultimately, what it brings to an ordinary citizen or employer. It also raises the question whether the law is balanced in relation to all segments of society that affect it and whether it may be an obstacle to economic development or to the preservation of nature and the environment. From the interpretation we heard in the introduction of the applicant, it can be concluded that the proposal for a law is in line with the Water Framework Directive and with other relevant directives governing specific water management and management segments. Of course, we can discuss today whether this is fully achieved or there are certain parts that should be done, but certainly we should bear in mind not only the appearance of a narrow area governed by this law, so the water area, but the overall context of regulation, which concerns the area of environmental protection, nature protection and not less important public health and sanitary protection. It is my wish as representatives in the Croatian Parliament that this law unequivocally regulates the water management system for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and takes into account the following priorities. Water is a prerequisite for life and every man has an inalienable right to it. Due to this privatisation and sale of drinking water sources in Croatia under no conditions is acceptable, protecting water, protecting the environment as well as the health of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We know and remember that the process of passing this law was long-lasting and that there were even a hundred amendments to it, and I am pleased that the promoter himself noticed that the law should be completed and that a large part of these remarks that have been made both by the profession and by the representatives and NGOs have nevertheless been incorporated into this final version that we have today. I must say, as chairman of the Environmental Protection Committee, that I also welcome the applicant's decision to accept the remarks that have been made on our committee and which have been incorporated into the paragraph 5 of the Law, which concerns water protection and the aquatic environment. I personally consider important provisions in Article 39, which also regulates public participation in the adoption of a strategy and management plan for water areas, which also provides long enough deadlines for the submission of observations and proposals and the implementation of a public debate, which is also the basis of the... Conventions, and most NGOs had a lot of objections. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this article is now properly written. I would especially like to refer to the part of the law that changes public water supply and public disposal activities to the scope of this law. As right and right as possible, there are different opinions, and we've talked a lot about it. But I believe that all water management must be covered by this law. What I'm saying here is that in the municipal water sector segment, there is a need for hearing about the specificities of each part of that system. The area of continental Croatia cannot be compared to the area of the mountain, or coast, because water supply and disposal are conditioned by the characteristics of the environment, but part of the heritage that we have. For this reason, I do not think it is necessary to always insist on rounding the sector, to respect the specificities of all our regions in Croatia, the county and that we may need to look for examples in the neighborhood, and I think it is a good example of Bavaria and Austria, thus enabling a marketable system in which there is room for small concessionaries. I'll just mention one of the goals here, maybe the most important goal is the strategy. The development of public water supply and the increase in water supply levels from public water supply systems from current 80% to 90% by 2023, which should be successfully achieved under the provisions of this law and the Water Economy Financing Act. And that seems like a priority to me. Why am I saying that? Because we also have an article in 89 that was discussed in the Croatian Parliament today. In that part, it is arranged to use water intended for human consumption for cross-border sales. I consider it personally important to consider the need to make a clear provision that the company's income, which will be established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which sells water in its original form to other countries' markets, in quantities greater than 3 and a half million metres of cubic, revenue from the state budget, and that the sale decision must be taken in the Croatian Parliament, returning to the importance of water as a valuable and strategic resource. I want to appeal here to all the competent services and bodies that before implementing this Article 89. Water laws, above all, provide water supply to all our households in the Republic of Croatia, because unfortunately there are still citizens of beautiful ours who do not have drinking water in their homes and I think we need to change that and that we should actually have basic tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45026	Thank you. And finally, distinguished representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45027	Thank you very much. Here's a little bit. With the support of the law, I would refer to Article 258. That's what we discussed when the strategy was put in place. So what I find extremely important is that there is finally a separation of the communal from the commercial. Therefore, companies which have so far been engaged in supply and disposal, drinking water supply and disposal in cities, so that they are no longer able to engage in commercial activities, i.e. to compete on the market for the performance of various construction and other works. In fact, this is extremely important because so far we have not been able to dismember from their balance sheets, which is what has arisen as a cost or loss as a result of business, therefore due to this business of communal where they deal with water distribution, i.e. draining, and what has arisen as a problem on the market, i.e. due to some business activities. Second, it is clear that all of these were paid by citizens through an increased price of water, but another important thing that was that works were done, so on the market, and that these utility companies competed equally on the market, so they created unfair competition for those other companies that are exclusively engaged in construction activities. And they were always there in some way in advantage, because they always had some kind of cover, but also some stronger base, a basis for such competition. I will only specify one example of such a company that has been running on the market, got to perform construction works, instead of money got apartments and so when looking legally they are ok, they have charged these works probably and market value and all that stands, but on the other hand it is dead capital, the liquid liquidity is threatened and it has clearly reached for an increase in the price of water. And these are the things that must be avoided in the future and that this law really regulates in the best possible way, so that these two things are separated and that they can no longer deal with these activities. And as we can see from the law of compliance obligations, it's been a year. Here's another bill of support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45028	Thank you very much. Here's a little bit. With the support of the law, I would refer to Article 258. That's what we discussed when the strategy was put in place. So what I find extremely important is that there is finally a separation of the communal from the commercial. Therefore, companies which have so far been engaged in supply and disposal, drinking water supply and disposal in cities, so that they are no longer able to engage in commercial activities, i.e. to compete on the market for the performance of various construction and other works. In fact, this is extremely important because so far we have not been able to dismember from their balance sheets, which is what has arisen as a cost or loss as a result of business, therefore due to this business of communal where they deal with water distribution, i.e. draining, and what has arisen as a problem on the market, i.e. due to some business activities. Second, it is clear that all of these were paid by citizens through an increased price of water, but another important thing that was that works were done, so on the market, and that these utility companies competed equally on the market, so they created unfair competition for those other companies that are exclusively engaged in construction activities. And they were always there in some way in advantage, because they always had some kind of cover, but also some stronger base, a basis for such competition. I will only specify one example of such a company that has been running on the market, got to perform construction works, instead of money got apartments and so when looking legally they are ok, they have charged these works probably and market value and all that stands, but on the other hand it is dead capital, the liquid liquidity is threatened and it has clearly reached for an increase in the price of water. And these are the things that must be avoided in the future and that this law really regulates in the best possible way, so that these two things are separated and that they can no longer deal with these activities. And as we can see from the law of compliance obligations, it's been a year. Here's another bill of support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45029	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Well, at first, I want to thank all of you who took part in the debate and who supported this text of the final proposal of the Water Act. I'd like to briefly, just really briefly, say, actually answer some of the questions that have been asked here, first of all, about the flood defense system. Again, I want to say that our country has the best flood defense system in this part of Europe. We proved it and showed it, and I've been to international conferences several times where it stood out here in defense of the floods went the farthest since the damage was the least. However, here we heard that private businesses are doing so in other European countries. It's not what these companies do there. It's what the military, the police, civil protection do. These countries are thinking about making a model the same as we do because it has proved to be good in practice. However, what we want to say here clearly is that there is no possibility that a company that gets a license in Osijek to come to defend the wounded area, for example, in Varazdin. So, a licensed company is issuing a ministry license and only one who has in the local area, 85% of people in the defence area, so if 100 people have to live there, 85% of people must have people, experience, material, equipment, machinery, etc., so there is no possibility of what's said in the debate. And what's most important of all these companies are going to do what they've been doing and so far means no changes will be, only what's good for them now will do it for the next 4 years, so they won't have a contract for a year and clearly that if they plan their work for 4 years that the price of work will also be lower. And what's most important of all is to clear up when an extraordinary defense comes from the floods, then it goes according to the Public Procurement Act, but according to the exception. So these companies deal directly with business, and there's no dilemma. So that part that's about regular annual cleaning, baskets, maintenance, etc., is about a period of four years. And here's another addition to the export of water to third countries. We all know that water is the resource of the future. The Croatian government has decided here that where countries appear as partners, I said that the state of Israel has already shown its interest, so on the other hand a partner should be the same state in this case as a company that will be founded by the state of Croatia, which will be a partner in the business as well with a company founded by the state of Israel. So that's absolutely clear, whatever state shows up here as a partner we're going as partners, we're going to be a state partner in this business. And finally, here's maybe a dilemma that appeared here, so in the service areas the aim of small municipalities is to get inside the service area because they're going to get rid of their small gas stations, plants, springs, etc., and they're going to enter the system of regional plumbing, they're going to get water from them, and the simple price of water in that service area is going to be much, much less than they would have to be in these small municipalities. That's it, for the end, I thank everyone again and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45030	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. We'll continue at 10:00 tomorrow, please, at 10:00, with a clear agenda of point 1. Final proposal of the Water Economy Financing Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 488. I wish you all good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45031	And the final proposal of the Water Act was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 489. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The review of the amendment has been divided into benches, I ask that the representative of Mr. Zdravko Krmek's State Secretary to show about the amendments and this amendment to the first Legislative Committee in accordance with Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45032	The government accepts all amendments to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45033	All amendments to the Legislative Committee therefore become an integral part of the draft law. This is the second amendment, meaning the 3rd Amendment of Representative Goran Marić to Article 38.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45034	The government does not accept this amendment for a reason because it is a regulation to be passed by sublaws based on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45035	Thank you. Mr. Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45036	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45037	This amendment has been withdrawn, i.e. the 4th and 6th amendments of the Committee on Legislatives and the 7th amendments to the Legislatives Committee have already been adopted. 8th Amendment of Mr Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45038	The government does not accept the amendment for reasons because the conditions for the selection of tenderers for a certification solution which demonstrates the technical capacity of the tenderers in the defence area are defined to mean at least 85% of the employees with the place of residence in the area. Also, labour prices will be obtained, so the basis of these jobs will be obtained through public competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45039	Thank you. Mr. Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45040	Mr. Secretary of State, in the legal solution you have offered, you are offering to assign operations for preventive, regular and extraordinary flood defenses through the basis of the Public Procurement Act. My amendment went towards the direction in which these jobs were assigned and prescribed in this law for 34 defenced areas and a single price by applying the Public Procurement Act. Nor will you be able to provide a single price for the same jobs in the territory of the entire country, and in particular you will not be able to implement that provision that speaks of the framework agreement for 4 years. That's why I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45041	Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 9th, 10th, 11, 12th and 13th amendments have already been accepted. 14th Amendment of the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45042	The government accepts all amendments to the Committee on Regional Development.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45043	The amendment is therefore accepted and becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment 15, 16, 17, 18 was also accepted. The 19th Amendment of Mr. Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45044	The government does not accept this amendment for a reason what I just said. So 85% of the people living in the defense area will have to prove that there and those companies that are going to get this license mean they have to prove that these people live there, and that way there won't be a chance that the company in Osijek is going to, say, defend the defence area from the floods, say, the Varazdin area.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45045	Thank you. Mr. Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45046	Now I don't know if you've read my amendment because the explanation you've given has nothing to do with the content of this amendment. In Article 221, my amendment refers to the fact that the certification solution is, therefore, also the certification of candidates who will be able to participate in the competition for the sake of a public competition. You don't have it in law. Therefore, the process of issuing a certification solution in the existing legislative solution is non-transparent. And trust me, I'm going to ask for a review of all the so far-issued solutions, especially this new law, because you're avoiding one of the simplest proposals that those who want to work on flood defenses approach certification through a public tender. What do you mean, an invitation? How will you resolve the issue of certification if you do not call a public tender? So that was the essence of my amendment, not the structure of employees in a company that would eventually get a job. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45047	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 20th amendment of the Legislative Committee was adopted. The 21st representative of Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45048	The government does not accept the amendment because this is also the subject of sublegal acts that will be adopted under this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45049	Mr. Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45050	I accept the explanation and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45051	This amendment has been withdrawn. The 22nd amendment of the Committee on Regional Development was adopted, the Committee on Law 23 was also adopted. 24 of the Representatives of Dragutin Lesar in Article 247.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45052	The Government does not accept amendments for reasons because this sublaw, i.e. a regulation on special conditions that must be met by legal persons engaged in flood defences, means that it must be adopted within 9 months, precisely because in the transitional period after one year these transactions will be obtained through public procurement.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45053	Mr. Dragutin Lesar's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45054	After the refusal of two previous amendments to both my 24th and number 27, I withdraw because they are immaterial because of the refusal of the previous two.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45055	Thank you. The 24th Amendment and the 27th Amendment have been withdrawn. The Committee on Legislatives adopted the 25th Amendment. And there remains representatives Mr Branimir Glavas, Boro Grubisic and Ivan Drmic on Article 260.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45056	The government does not accept this amendment for a reason because we think a year is enough to conduct a public procurement procedure for the assignment of these jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45057	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45058	Mr Secretary of State, the current situation in flood defense is better than in most European Union countries. And now instead of what's good to keep, we're moving on to this system that's applied to other countries, and then there's billions of damage and they're killed in floods. We believe that the transition to procurement procedures under the Public Procurement Act requires adjustment not from one to more years. So we put it in the amendment to be four years. So, somehow, that time period would coincide with joining the EU, let's say. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-09-0.u45059	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We're done with this amendment review. I am voting on the final proposal of the Water Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? Thank you. This law was adopted by a majority of 98 votes for 6 abstentions, 2 against, together with the amendments adopted. Good morning! Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, I welcome you all. We're continuing to work on such a modest number, but I guess the situation will get better. We move to: - Final proposal of the Water Economy Financing Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 488 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, the Committee on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, representative Dragutin Bodakoš, representative Vlatko Podnar and representative Marijana Petir. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Mr. Zdravko Krmek State Secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. Here you go.
