ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28600	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to thank you for your help in preparing this law, as a really large number of colleagues took part in the preparation. And I also want to thank you for the common position that was related to this law that because of its importance we will put into two readings in one congregation, because I think that this way we will be able to react best to the really significant changes that he brings as such. What is most important is that Croatia has made a truly huge step towards the system of the entire vertical education. I will repeat only a few of those key moments, which is that in the last five years six new universities, three new universities, that Croatia today has more than 41 thousand students than 4 years ago, which according to Commissioner Fiegel and a number of other people is the most promising education system in this part of Europe. The Croatian Parliament adopted an extremely important document that showed all its strength, which is a national programme of measures to introduce compulsory secondary education. This measure, which will precede, if God gives, and changes to the Constitution in the direction that compulsory secondary education is introduced in Croatia to the first qualification, will result in more than 80,000 children not leaving the system of secondary education for the next 10 years. So it's also pulling towards an increased number of students. As has already been said before, you are familiar with compliance with the Bologna Declaration, one of the key points is compliance and quality assurance. In 2005, the Ministerial Meeting in Bergen also went in this direction to the aspect of external and internal security, the improvement of quality is definitely what is needed and what is now happening as a central moment within the European system of higher education. In addition, it was very clear that all processes and the role of all participants to implement the insurance and quality improvement system, notably the National Council for Science, and to distinguish the role they will play unlike the Agency, had to be defined. Also, one of the key measures taken by the Croatian Parliament on 31 March 2006, I thank you for this because this was a key moment for ensuring the system and guaranteeing quality in the higher education system, but was also the driver of the measures necessary for the introduction of the state graduation, which is the National Programme for the Prevention of Corruption in 2006 and 2008, where the precise instruments of institutions that have to implement this are clearly listed. In other words, it is one of the most crucial and important measures in the fight against corruption, and it is also cited as state graduation. The law on quality assurance in science and higher education brings several key moments. First, they are redefined, in other words, the procedures for issuing the credentials are redefined. One of the key elements that everyone in the higher education system today has, I would say, in a special way headache. Because it's true, we're going very fast and impulsively, but it's always on the verge of a slight mess. Therefore, it is very clear in this way that the Agency for Science and Higher Education is taking over the full system of initial accreditation, reaccreditation, thematic evaluation, the external independent periodic judgment of the internal quality assurance system, completely independent of politics, thus independent of the ministry. And what is most important to me, they will very quickly begin to make those decisions that are already in place and broad debate, public support, and that is to remove allowances for those study programmes that do not meet the conditions, whether spatial or humane, whether they have not met the conditions after obtaining a temporary pass. And that Science and Higher Education Agency has a key role to play. In one special way, I would also like to touch the procedures for establishing new higher schools and starting to implement study programmes. This is where Croatia used a model that is present in the European Union countries, but something more flexible. For example, you know that the British model is very explicit, he requires that any new high school established must even perform at least three years of a study programme already existing accredited higher education, entrusted to him by the implementation of this programme, and only then, if it achieves these conditions in quality, can it go according to its own programs after the evaluation. We have determined a somewhat shorter period of time for the system of education to be complete and able to breathe normally. One of the key elements of this Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education is the establishment of the Central Application Office at the Agency for Science and Higher Education. Mr. President, here is my honor and pleasure to present today and to the public for the first time and this brochure that is related to the State's graduation and fellow parliamentary representatives will all receive one copy at a time. I am very happy and satisfied with this brochure, because it included almost 500 teachers, teachers, university professors, academics and in fact a large part of the profession because it brought ultimately what Croatia was waiting for, in the period after World War II, in a process that was all just not easy. And I'm personally, when we started to implement a project of state graduation, I didn't know how much it required, the process of one of the biggest projects I've ever made in my life, along with my associates. You know that this year he's starting an experimental state prom in May. This is the first document that has very clearly defined all the procedures, the steps of national graduation, and this brochure will be shared here in a few minutes. But why do I mention it? Because in one of her entire hierarchy she also made very clear the role of the Central Register of State Graduation as a place where absolutely all the results of the state's graduation will be collected, but also the children's achievements in laying down three mandatory items, election cases and direct communication with the Central Application Office, which is an integral part of the national information system, applying to a high school that will actually create ranking lists. And in this way we have ensured complete passivity and smoothness of the autonomy of Croatian universities. I have to thank them here, too, because Croatian universities and higher schools have really made a huge leap by accepting the state's graduation. I think the issue of the Central Application Office alone for itself and the establishment of this law gives a whole new dimension. And one of the most common comments that took place during more than 400 discussions that were in the academic community but also in the field where I constantly go, it is actually one great trust in this system that is as such present in a number of states. All I'm gonna do is get Ireland, Finland and the rest of them. Something's different in France. In the United States, the same concept, a slightly different model but he certainly says, that the Central Application Office will communicate with more than 20 million data from one large software that will combine all student achievements during its four-year or three-year education. The evaluations will be combined with another software that will bring the results of the state's graduation from mathematics, Croatian and foreign languages or election cases, and based on this agency and the Central Application Office according to the criteria that require individual high schools will form rank lists. This means the following, that the child, my, the minister has absolutely equal terms and rights as the child of a smuggling worker and there is no possibility of manipulation. And that is why the state's graduation as such is considered among the largest anti-corruption measures that have occurred in the field of education of all Western European countries, and here I particularly want to highlight safe in Croatia. And here I am truly immeasurably grateful to the Croatian Assembly, which is why we have come to the position that today we can also talk about this strategic document. And let me just say in a few words those few key messages concerning the harmonisation of this law with the acquis of the European Union, Article 163. The Treaty on European Community, which makes it very clear that this way the Agency will meet the conditions for full membership in the European High Education Quality Insurance Association but in the European Quality Insurance Register in Higher Education. And I think it is important to point out that both national councils, both for higher education and the National Council for Science in this way solve all those administrative problems, remain strategic bodies that correspond to the Croatian Assembly. However, they have one very important role, which is to create a network of higher universities and the need for them to be established in the Republic of Croatia, and in this way we have actually achieved that we have blocked those syndromes that occurred in Romania, some other countries, which is the hyperinflation of higher education institutions. Mr. President, I think as far as financial resources are concerned, they're absolutely insured in 2009. This when I said I mean then I say that in 2010, we said that there would be an amount somewhere around 6 million kuna and at this point for expenditures and incomes, of course, that I can't be defined now whether it's going to be more or less. But this project is so strategic that the ministry will absolutely stand behind every kuna. And if any other items need to be cut, but this project must ultimately be fully implemented. In this way, Croatia fully coordinated the quality assurance system in science and higher education with the Member States of the European Union. She took a few steps ahead, and what I would say as one conclusion is that we have combined here with one experience of the countries that have spent and a quality assurance system for at least 30 to 40 years. The academic community has maintained its autonomy but also its responsibility. The Agency as a fully depolitical body has taken a key role in the evaluation system and, of course, the issue that comes very often from scientific communities I want here very clearly highlighted accurate and Croatian scientific institutes and other institutions will be evaluated both according to their results, the number of publications published, the ipa factor that goes, the number of quotes, trained staff and, of course, that Croatia will for the first time receive an external evaluation and scientific and higher education institutions for which those who implement this education system will be responsible. More time has passed that we are all responsible, and I also think that the Croatian academic community is ready for this step. And the best evidence of this is a number of debates that have absolutely given full support to this process. I personally think that it is wise what Mary pointed out and other colleagues to go in two readings because we will eventually solve some of the misunderstandings. And Mr. President, with great enthusiasm, I am giving support to this law, which has really been in the lists of those countries where the system of higher education has been recognizable for 50 years in exceptional quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28601	Thank you very much, Minister Primorac. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28602	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. On 13 March, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture discussed the proposal for a law on ensuring the quality of science in higher education, P.Z.E. No. 277. The opening argument was submitted by the representatives of the applicant. The proposed law should be adopted in order to bring quality issues in science and higher education into line with European standards and guidelines for quality assurance and in the European area of higher education... the strategic document adopted by the signatories of the Bologna Declaration in its implementation procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It has been shown that all signatories of the Bologna Declaration, following the necessary organisational changes, the issue of quality becomes a first-class issue of what organisational changes should be made possible. Their purpose, therefore, was to improve the excellence of the scientific and research and higher-school areas. The bill proposes measures for external and internal security and quality improvement in higher education and science which the existing Act on scientific activity and higher education could not fully and fully implement. The proposed amendments are then followed by the National Council for Higher Education and the National Science Council being appointed as bodies that will create assumptions at strategic level to improve quality in science and higher education. A Agency for Science and Higher Education as an independent legal person with public authority will assume extensive and responsible operational tasks, accreditation and subsequent periodic external evaluation, scientific and higher education institutions and external evaluations of the effectiveness of internal insurance and quality systems in those institutions. The need for reorganisation is also imposed in view of the provision in Article 18(3) and (4) of the Law that the Croatian Parliament will establish a network of higher universities and public scientific institutions in the Republic of Croatia, which will further strengthen the need to evaluate excellence in the field of higher education and scientific research. The participants of the debate accepted the direction of resolving this sensitive issue, along with the constant suppression of the proposed system. In the first instance, they pointed out the need for the National Council for Science and the National Council for Higher Education not to be exempt from making individual decisions, and the minister also spoke of the evaluation since the measurement decision on these issues cannot be the only thing of the agency. In any event, it should provide for surveillance mechanisms for the work of the agency, especially given the high pressure caused by an increase in the number of higher education institutions, and in conditions until a network of higher education institutions has been established by the Croatian Parliament. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously reached the next conclusion. It is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to accept the proposal for a law on quality assurance in science and higher education. All positions, proposals and opinions in connection with the bill will be referred to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28603	Thank you. Do the other committees want it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28604	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Since it's about first reading, I'm going to talk about this law in general for two, three minutes, and then I'm going to move on to its contents. I'd like to start with one question. For those who are not involved in science and education, will one of the Morac players from Kostrena and the Greater Gorica will play in Real, Arsenal, Barcelona after the deadline? You will probably all answer no because it is a marked difference in quality between the players of the second and third Croatian League and the first Spanish or British League. So how are things, colleagues and colleagues in Croatian science? Who plays in the Croatian first scientific league? I run one science program, the program has six projects, the projects are funded, one with 30 grand, so the best one with 120 grand a year. I wouldn't have any objection to such funding if we didn't look at how many of the leaders and associates in these projects have left a trail in the past project period, how many published works, in which magazines, what is their reaction factor, how many times have they been quoted, how many mentorships have they had? And when you look at it, then you see that the way of funding is without any order. Just my project, I later extended it to my entire higher school facility, the data even scarier. Probably all over Croatia. So if you know someone from the evaluation group, then you're going to get a slightly higher grade, if you don't intervene, you're going to get a lower grade, but colleagues and colleagues, it's not just about the financial impact of the year because it clearly depends on how much material you buy, how much you really can do, how much you can possibly go to your colleagues in other countries that deal with similar projects and so on. By the way, the value or points that you received from this evaluation are later re-supplyed in the purchase of equipment, re-supervised in obtaining scientific recruits. So one negative cycle, a negative feedback, is permanently closed because there are no clear criteria. Mr Minister knows well that the European Commission's report of 3.4 months ago clearly states that the European Commission has assessed both our path and our approximation to European standards and the approximation of the European Union stands as a system of funding scientific research is insufficiently transparent. I think we all have to agree with that. And secondly, there is a lack of administrative capacity related to the involvement of Croatian scientific institutions in FP 7, so capacity, not the number of employees, but the capacity, their expertise, their knowledge, their skills. What about education? I don't think we have to dig too much into that area. And you remember yourself, colleagues and colleagues, at the beginning of this decade of ugly scandals related to this building and that building on the other side of Mark's square where people were admitted to the state administration based on purchased diplomas, so it was considered quite normal, I don't know, by an illegal act. Very ugly, very ugly, very ugly. And here we are, and recently we read a few days ago about skipping calls, scandals all you want. This is clear because the system is not transparent enough, which is not clear enough criteria and I think we have to work on them. That's why a law like this is welcome, but the question is, what are we really going to achieve with this content of the law? Are we serious about this law? I think the debate, here's the president of our committee, has expressed our position here, it seems to me a very good debate, a very open debate. We all raised our hands when we heard it was the first reading, that the government had accepted that it was going in the direction of the first reading. That's good. In the meantime, we'll be able to correct a lot of things, get answers to all our questions, and hopefully the final version of the law will be a lot different than this one. The minister mentioned corruption. You're just gonna let me find that page and read that part of the text. The national programme for the control of corruption in 2006/ 2008 reads: "The ministry has committed to introduce measures to reduce corruption in the system of science and higher education." The word: "decrease corruption" I cannot accept Mr. Minister. There must be zero tolerance. So instead of 120 cases, we're going to have 82. We've achieved our goal in accordance with the criteria set out here. That can't go away. The Agency for Science and Higher Education, she gets great authority under this law and my question here is about players first, second and third leagues. It would be good, Mr. Minister, if by the second reading we could get names and last names of scientific and professional titles and teaching calls from people who are employed by that agency today to really convince me that it's the first league players who will know how to judge in that first league. You have seen colleagues and colleagues if you have read the law that all competences and which are very important, extremely important new positions get the agency. I will only read one sentence to you: "The Agency for Science and Higher Education is obliged to coordinate its action with European standards and guidelines to be recognised as an independent institution with a central role in the National Quality Insurance System in Science and Higher Education.". So I expect one who judges in the first league to be truly qualified for it. If the people in the central office are going to be hired by the principles of those employed at the agency, please check out what I'm talking about, check it out. Then I don't believe in the system. I'll give you one piece of information that I consider relevant. We were never brave enough to spend in Croatia, and I am particularly speaking to Mr. Minister. 35, 40 years ago in the Republic of Italy there were countless scientific projects, colleagues wrote each other positive reports, everyone could get funds, the funds were really minimal and there was no movement of real science. There was a minister who was brave, determined, and effective. The moment he entered office, he said today he stopped funding all scientific projects in Italy. Next month, colleagues and colleagues will fill out forms, applications for new scientific projects that we will evaluate, you will fill out forms in Italian and English. And colleagues and colleagues, you know what he did? He sent all those applications to a review outside the Italian borders. I know you do. I'm talking about how much percent of us are rated that way, that's important. That's very important. Now, he sent everything 100% of the projects out to break. What did he do? He saw that 70% of the projects could not win an international score. He abolished over the night 70% of the projects and those 30% were financed with enormous funds because they were really worth funding. And clearly, there is a new period in the development of Italian science and technology that has been clearly reflected in economic development for the past 35 years, etc. In the case of my project, Mr. Minister, a person who won a state science award last year, an exceptional young scientist has only been valorized by six projects a few months earlier as a fourth in importance, by weight, by value to be given a state court award for exceptional qualities and achievements and works and everything else. So, double criteria. Does this law guarantee that there will be a shift? All those questions we talked about, I hope the president of our committee will deliver you to the ministry, that you will get them, that you will manifest yourself to them, that you will clearly and apply them to the making of the text at the second reading. I have a feeling that this central office, which is scheduled to establish especially by looking at the enormous resources required for its funding, means only increasing scientific bureaucracy, higher education bureaucracy and not being too convinced that the capacity of these people will be such that they will truly be able to realize everything they expect. In addition, I am somewhat surprised that their main task of the central office will be a clear analysis of the state's graduations. Mr. Minister, we had in this Chamber a round table, by our board was organized that round table related to state graduations and then we saw that there was a significant difference in watching you and some of your associates on the notion of state graduation. You are constantly mentioning the state's graduation in the context of the possibility of using the results of the graduation, at the time of enrolment. You know, however, that national prom has been introduced and proposed to be introduced and introduced for quite another reason. For a reason to be. Mr. Vice President, do I have the right to speak without the minister getting in the way?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28605	You go ahead. Don't bother.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28606	A national prom with a basic goal was introduced to combine the value of the teaching process, the effect of this process in certain secondary schools throughout Croatia, so that schools in Rijeka, Split, Osijek can be combined, to see where we need to make turns, shifts to better, to improve the situation in certain schools. Sure that secondary state graduation and graduation results can be used on some, I repeat in some colleges that are key and basic for college reception. At my university, at the Technical Faculty, in many other colleges, these data are completely irrelevant and our colleges will have to continue to have entirely other subjects involved in a classified process which is perfectly normal. The biggest problem in us when it comes to science and higher education is the lack of coordination in the triangle between politics, higher education and the economy. I agree with one of your sentences, Mr. Minister, which I particularly appreciate, which you said last year, "Croatia has no right to finance the education of those profiles that our country and our society do not need." I want to see what shifts are made in that triangle, economy, politics, education that goes in that direction. I don't recognize them here. I don't see any coordination between the ministry, national councils, agencies, so politics on the one hand and other factors in that triangle. Since time cuts out for me, I'm going to see how the debate is going to go, so I'm going to report myself individually to supplement some more things, but I have to say that this law is welcome, but it requires a very, very much change and grooming to be able to raise a hand for him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28607	Thank you. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28608	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague incorrectly quoted it as saying "a way of financing projects without any order". This is an incorrect colleague, because this minister with his team in the past few years has completely turned the system of reviews, he has brought it to the level of European and world systems, they are available on the Internet, the instructions for the work of reviewers are quite clear, he introduced a review of foreign experts, and the result is the following. In the last two years, the number of scientific papers in "Web Science Index" has increased by 30%, and in "Caren Countries" by 20%. If the system hadn't changed like this, would we have such a big step? Certainly not.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28609	Thank you. We're going to discuss clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative of the Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28610	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Because we seem to live in amnesia, when it suits us, let's forget some things that the system in science is so good that we're changing it thoroughly now, that the project approval system was so good that it was written for weeks about how the presidents of the committees were using transparent rules for themselves and for the members of the commission to assign projects. And the system is so good that every time we have a report of the European Commission's annual reports, then we're actually talking about science and high education in a not very positive way. It's such a good system and so much credibility for the facts we're dealing with in the Parliament. Especially on the basis of correcting an incorrect quote. ... Yes, it's a matter of raising a relationship to the truth. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In fact, this law wants to regulate the work of the Agency for Science and Higher Education, in fact, the procedures for the evaluation of scientific institutions and study programmes, i.e. highly educated institutions. I consider the bill more than welcome. The more the government did to the agency in an illegal way, because according to the existing Law on Scientific Research and Higher Education, the agency was supposed to be the expert body of national councils, in fact, the agency was transformed into an administrative apparatus. Fortunately, the agency has done extremely professional work. Now it's being corrected by this law. The text of the bill, however, on quality assurance, is considered to be messy, partly contradictory and in any case insufficient and insufficient. And I'm going to say a few concrete examples, and I'm going to deliver a whole series of my proposals in writing. Unfortunately, in the opening presentation, we heard a lot more about by-products than about the problem of quality assurance. We've heard about a state-run graduation that should basically be an external evaluation institute, not an instrument for enrollment universities. The moment a contract was signed with universities, the moment the state graduation became an instrument for enrolment in universities with appropriate complements. We have heard about how over the past 5 years the number of students has increased by 40,000 and thus Croatia has become the most progressive in the number of nation students, but it could only become if today Croatia has over 190 thousand students, because we are Mr. Ministers 23. 12. In 2003 they handed over 150 thousand students in the system. 149 grand and let's say 500 or 700, something like that. And finally this system of evaluation, therefore the system of evaluation and evaluation should be prevented from super inflation mentioned by Mr. Minister, and Croatia is crucified between current needs. Therefore, by constantly increasing the number of highly educated people and relatively modest capacities, I primarily think of the number of teachers. And finally, one of the qualities or one of the contributions to quality and its insurance is certainly what the Assembly Committee does both at its regular sessions and at its thematic sessions. Mr. Minister, we have had, as you know, the thematic session and the state graduation and the thematic session on the Bologna process. We spoke several hours from different aspects at these thematic sessions. Afterwards, we, as the Parliamentary Committee, twice invited you to come to the Assembly with your team and introduce you to the consequences and possible conclusions of this debate. You didn't care about that. You have not responded to these calls, and that is another indicator of how much you really care about quality assurance and its implementation. I think the law has some sense, and it's burdened with some conceptal difficulties. Unfortunately, I couldn't attend a working-body session yesterday, so I couldn't make those remarks, so I'm saying them now. One of the basic concepts is the relationship between accreditation and acquittal. As you know, accreditation is taken in a whole series of countries for what we call a pass. And so the question we're going to apply to us, and if we apply it, then it would be good for it to be consistent and consistent. Secondly, I think that a series of inaccurate and inadequate concepts, the consequence of inaccurate translation, I think from English and one part of Slovenian, so let's say that the network appears here as an association and talks about a whole series of cases of guarantee and insurance without clarifying the difference and specificity of one and another concept. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to warn you of one fact, please do not identify the Bologna Process with the European Union. Membership in the Bologna process is adequate for membership in the Council of Europe. And our compliance with ENQA is also not an instrument of the European Union, but ENQA, therefore, is a European Quality Insurance Network which is characteristic of the Bologna Process and belongs, so to speak to the Council of Europe but to the European Union. So it seems to me that we need to point out that elemental fact when we talk about how we coordinate and how we should function. Here are some concrete examples. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And I find that much more appropriate. So, the credentials recommendation and then the minister at the end of the convention brings, he actually signs the pass. Terminologically, most often and at least in my court, it would be a confusing formulation that would talk about the agency proposing to issue or not to issue a permit. And here we have one difficulty which is conceptual, the law leaves quite an open relationship between agencies and national councils. So how does the agency apply to the national councils, the National Council against the Agency if we pass the Agency Act, then I think it should be specified there. In Article 1(1), Article 2(7) states that the Agency is therefore to adopt an evaluation, so forgive the judgment. It seems to me that judgment, a lot, is a very significant term, so perhaps instead of judgment, it should be an evaluation, because judging can be done one way or another, is not really the purpose of the agency to make judgments, but rather to bring some values and its concrete suggestions. Article 4 states that the Agency shall act independently and independently while, for example, and therefore, members of the Management Board of the Agency shall be elected by the Assembly. Therefore, the agency is established and in some ways elected by the main administrative body of the Assembly but Article 9(1) states that the statute of the agency, therefore, practically approves, therefore, gives consent to the minister. And here again we have a overlap between executive and legislative authority and its ingenuity. Article 7 speaks of the accreditation council and this should, in fact, be the main expert body of the agency on which there is no speech in the law. In Article 8, it seems to me that you have a numerical discrepancy between the number of members of the board of directors of the agency and what the Assembly is choosing. Because the specification says that the number of members of the agency, the number of boards of directors, is 9, that the Parliament chooses the 7th, that one member is elected by the employees of the agency, then you lack at least another member. Well, if it isn't, then fine, but if I couldn't understand it I don't know how one who's not that into it will understand. This Regulation shall enter Article 14 speaks of something called the central reception office. And it's actually an institution that if I'm not mistaken, I'm being taken over from Slovenia. Where the central application office is quite well described as an institution where all students who wish to enrol in studies are registered in the central application office. However, when you look at the business specification that the central application office should perform in Croatia, then all students do not apply to this central application office, but the central application office is the only institution that takes over from the centre for external evaluation, education and nothing else. So it seems to me that the Central Application Office is basically the central information office for higher education and science, and here we have a semantic doubt and a kind of difference. Instead of the value facility, in Article 14. etc., I'd like to talk about the subject of evaluation. Article 18(3), (4), that the law should become an operational Assembly should adopt strategic documents on a network of higher educations, including guidelines and criteria for the establishment of new and not all, as set out in the draft law and study programmes. Now, as far as the study programmes are concerned, colleagues and colleagues, the question is what is being valued, what is being accredited and what is being given the pass. Is an institution worth it or is the study programme worth it? Is it worth a scientific research institute or is every project worth it? Which is where I think there should be a difference in treatment with the Institute of Science and higher education. If a high education institution is accredited, then it is one procedure, if programmes are accredited, then universities cannot be excluded from the accreditation process. Where you have an article, then, that universities can if they get confirmation from the ministry that the new programme will be funded to establish a new programme. Which means you've freed the universities from the evaluation process and the accreditation process. Which is constitutionally fine, but we need to be clear about what that means. So we have a completely different procedure, and then that means that we don't accredit programs at universities but only institutions. Because that, too, I think the law should be exemplified and not really something that's being implicated. Unlike the situation when we were taking the Bologna Process, then we accredited the programmes in one way, so a very specific method of evaluation that was far from the usual practice, so the evaluators didn't go to institutions, they didn't check what conditions they had for education, they didn't check what laboratories they had, what libraries they had, and so on. Finally, Article 4e speaks of the need to collect and process data. That, colleagues and colleagues, is one how this nicely large "outsourcing", i.e. transfer of power from the Ministry to the Agency. So far, it's been done by the ministry, especially if it's a critical process. Therefore, it seems to me that this activity of the agency, therefore by law-designed activity, should be significantly more detailed in the law than it has been, because it is a job that the ministry, or legislator, transfers the power of the ministry to the Agency as an independent institution. Here, that would be my remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28611	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28612	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. First, maybe the most important. Any effort to improve and ensure quality in science and higher education deserves special attention. That I don't think should be controversial. For this reason, the HDZ Club gives full support to all processes of positive changes in the ministry aimed at improving the quality of scientific and research work and the quality of higher education at our universities, universities, etc. This is an extremely important task for a whole series of reasons, and in any case when we talk about the proposal of these laws, when we talk about formal, legal aspects, it seems to me that in all these discussions there may be a real reason and an explanation of why it makes sense to insist on quality and why the European Union insists on quality and why the European Commission is holding this objective as one of the most important priorities. There are a whole series of reasons, I may mention some during my debate and explicitly mention it, but this context, which means quality within a single society, within the competitiveness of the economy, in the context of the functionality and efficiency of society as a whole, I would say, special and broader discussions with different aspects, in relation to those discussions that are exclusively limited to these formal legal aspects of quality improvement, which, for legitimate reasons in recent months, has rightly focused on the increasing number of openings of different educational institutions, universities, study programmes that really have which have a number of times and questionable quality for various reasons. And I would say one basic reason, because it is not understood and the responsibility of an individual who enrolls such programs, but also the responsibility of those who establish such institutions, as well as the responsibility of those who surrender in infinitely large quantities to such institutions. Unfortunately, I have witnessed the fact that in recent years some of my associates who have been very good development engineers, scientific, professors, etc. for pragmatic, inadmissible, commercial reasons, they decided, optimising their home and private budgets, teaching in quantities and places that did not suit perhaps the level of their abilities and what they should do in society as a priority. It has been said, and I would like to emphasise this, that in the current Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, some important obligations have not been sufficiently defined by the Republic of Croatia through the signing of the Bologna Declaration, especially those relating to the aspect of quality assurance and quality assurance, including the application of European standards and guidelines for ensuring quality in the European area of higher education, a strategic document adopted at the Ministerial Conference in Bergen in 2005. And this is a good example where national interests are absolutely consistent with the interests of the European Union, which takes great care of its global positioning in the area of the wider international community, exclusively and with the only quality it can achieve its political and economic and any other impact on competitiveness with areas that are very rapidly progressing. Several times, even for this pay phone, I pointed out that, for example, Indian higher education institutions produce several hundred or precisely 220 thousand engineers of the best among the world's best today, and that is part of the concern and that is why and why the European Commission and all European Union institutions responsible for the processes and economic prosperity and competitiveness in science and education give special attention to this problem. The improvement of quality in higher education and science therefore comes to the centre of greater attention, not only in national countries but also in a wider European common space which confirms documents adopted at ministerial conferences held after the adoption of the Bologna Declaration. The external quality assurance and improvement system implies an evaluation and assessment of the quality of the valuation facilities based on objective and clear criteria. In any case, in the whole process, what is most important and deserves special attention, these are criteria, the content of these criteria and the consistent application of these criteria which then enable us to really position ourselves in this process of external evaluation and internal evaluation in the place that we really deserve, and that, after the analysis carried out, we will definitely take all those measures with the Ministry, not only with this bill but also with wider social efforts and measures to ensure that our position on these different ranking lists, in line with different criteria, improves as quickly as possible and significantly. The objective set out in the proposal for this law may, among other things, be reduced to the following. By 2010, carry out an external evaluation of the quality of higher education programmes and institutions with a comparative development of high school quality assurance units. So far, designed systems do not meet standards, the Law on scientific activity and higher education does not regulate the obligation of their structure in higher education and science institutions, nor the process of external evaluation of the quality and efficiency of their work. The criteria, as I said, are particularly important and deserve a broader debate and certainly in the debate on these issues, and a very important and significant scale must be given to the interests and attitudes of the economy. An economy in which there is no strong interaction with development, research and scientific institutions has been condemned to play a role that does not allow competitiveness, which does not allow exports, and therefore does not have any flora but is one of the most important and significant priorities. Finally, in the Lisbon Declaration, 3% of research and development has been clearly highlighted, but 1.5% should be secured by the economy. When we talk about the quality of science and education in the Republic of Croatia, then we must really talk about the responsibility of all parts of society. The ministry is headed by both the most important institution and the most responsible, but the responsibility of the economy and its attitude towards investing in research and development I would say is a key and important political decision. Is this attitude to what extent is present in the Croatian economy and in the Croatian economic sector? It's a special subject. And I'd say if we analyzed her then we might find a lot clearer. The process of external evaluation of education is something that deserves special attention and effort, but it should be said that it has been present so far at some I would say to better-quality higher education institutions. Personally, as a teaching and regular professor in the permanent title of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing, I would like to stress that the Faculty of Electrical Engineering has carried out independently different forms of external evaluation by calling on our experts from different respected international institutions to assess the quality and competitiveness of our teaching programmes. I remember one of the reports well. Perhaps some of you remember Dr. Lescovar, our distinguished physicist from Barclay who was doing an evaluation of the teaching plan and the Faculty of Electrical Engineering program, computer science almost 10 years ago. One of the most important observations was the following. Too many items, too slow the dynamics of forgetting certain teaching content that do not correspond to today's time. This forgetting factor is very important because it shows the freshness and ability of teachers and scientists to define those teaching content that is current, important and determine not only the competitiveness of science and education, but also the competitiveness of the entire society, and especially the economy. Unfortunately, it happened when we talked to Dr. Lescovar personally, who I know very well that the objects that surrender are almost two decades old in engineering, in the technology sector. It absolutely did not make sense that such items would be part of the teaching content, that such items would be part of the cost of Croatian society, and that I would say a measure of updating, refreshing our established plans and programmes, and it is one of the important attitudes and criteria that deserves attention. There are different rankings that measure, compare, rank different higher education and scientific institutions in the world. I don't want to talk about those exclusives like the Shanghai group. If you look at perhaps the criteria that impose rank according to the Shanghai group's views then you might be impressed and you would have to conclude really that according to these criteria our position on such rank lists is not good. However, there are other criteria and other rankings on which the Croatian university, specifically the Zagreb University, is inaccessiblely low-listed. I'd say next, too. I am not sure that this is an objective measure of the value of Zagreb University. Perhaps in a formal, administrative sense we are too late to provide those data, they enter for the databases of these rank lists so that the position of the Zagreb University is far better. In that sense, I would also ask Mr. Minister, and I also spoke to the Rector to provide all the necessary information to such databases so that Croatian universities, especially Zagreb University, and especially some colleges that really have, would say high place in the European Research Area. I don't particularly want to emphasize I don't know medicine, so maybe physics, so maybe FER etc. But I'm sure we've got great ones and we've got to stimulate and do everything we can to keep their position on these rankings as high as possible. It is said in the proposal for a document that a significant contribution may be expected to ensure quality assurance and improvement, perhaps even greater than the National Council for Science, the National Council for Higher Education and, in particular, the Agency for Science and Higher Education, and I believe and hope that this agency will be structured in such a way as to truly ensure the goal set by the proposal for these laws, the improvement of the quality of education and science in the Republic of Croatia. High-school hyperproduction really isn't about society. This may be the interest of individuals who seek titles that are more expensive than real knowledge and in any case these efforts aim to control these processes that undermine the quality of the entire system of higher education in the Republic of Croatia and in any case hope that these positive changes processes that the ministry takes will give special I would say the stimulating impulse of the best of the best to really make it possible sooner, and this can be one of our common strategic goals that on some of the acceptable ranking lists in quite high places we see some Croatian institutes such as Ruđer Boskovic who deserves that place, and I would say the Zagreb University. In any case, in the end, I would say very clearly and simply what I said and at the beginning, any effort to improve and ensure quality in science and higher education deserves full support and therefore the HDZ Club supports this draft law initiative in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28613	Thank you. And on behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28614	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister and members of the Government, fellow MPs and fellow MPs. Here's when I observe this proposal for a law on quality assurance in science and higher education with this final bill really at first sight, first reading, I apologize, since it says it's wrong here. Okay, so if it's the first reading, then it's even better because we have time to possibly include suggestions and good intentions of speakers discussing this topic. So, when this material is read, you really see the good intentions of the promoter, the proponent of the measures, that is, the proposal of this law and the commitment to quality assurance in science and higher education. When I left Slavonski Brod here, a gentleman who is not this highly educated, but asked me, Doctor, can you ask in the Croatian Parliament how much by the structure of the education of parliamentary representatives and other officials at the level of the Republic of Croatia when entering the Assembly and then check the same structure after the parliamentary term has ended? So I said, Marco, why would I check it out or ask? Well he said, Doctor, you see during the parliamentary term there are significant shifts in the structure of education, academic titles etc. while someone's acting this tall, not just this one, but some other high-ranking duties. Unfortunately, these phenomena are not only unique to these, to tell the high institutions, but they happen at lower levels, at local levels. Therefore, the names of first-rates or graduates, including academic titles at the level of the leaders of some parties in the local community or the head of the city, county, municipalities, etc. And that's what we're all witnesses to. I don't think we should fool ourselves that we don't. If necessary, name specifics may also be specified. But I don't think it's necessary. On the other hand, Mr. Minister mentioned that a network of higher education institutions, universities, universities, universities, and when I observe a map, a geographical map of Croatia, I must note that, as one of our colleagues would say when Učka crosses, then we have, as I like to say, sea universities in Pula, Rijeka, Zadar, Split and Dubrovnik, so to speak. When we start from our metropolis and our central university in Zagreb, we have only one university in Osijek until Ilock. So more than a million residents are one university. What are the criteria, therefore, for the distribution of the University network in the Republic of Croatia? What difference does that make between, is that a desire for science weaker on the continent? In Slavonia, Baranja, Srem? Or is that something else? In Slavonski Brod, there is only one way to say the established temporary university with three interim studies, with the interim dean, with a temporary board of directors going in good direction, I must say it goes in a good direction, with the teaching taking place at five locations in the City of Slavonski Brod, which is somewhat to say guilty, not guilty but responsible local and regional self-government together. So, both the city and the County of Brod-Posaviska who must also have a share in ensuring both comfort and conditions for teaching students who study at the Veleučište in Slavonski Brod as well as at the Faculty of Engineering of the University of Osijek which is also in Slavonski Brod. We are also witnessing the Index affair, so buying diplomas and exams at many high schools in the Republic of Croatia, so some are affected by the fact that I am saying the investigation in this regard, some are not. Because of this, someone mentioned here, it seems to me that Mr. Doric believes that there should be zero tolerance, so abuse of crime and corruption at universities because it is indeed, as Stjepan Radić once said, Croatian schools and colleges should not be just educational institutions, but above all, educational institutions. I therefore plead that both this item or the reduction of crime and corruption is defined as Mr Doric said, so zero tolerance and corruption. In Croatia there exists, only 7% say highly educated and somehow this figure, the famous number of 7%, otherwise number 7 is a strange number, somehow does not move in with us, regardless of all the measures we have taken, on all proposals legal etc. The European norm, not norm, but an average of about 20%, is highly educated in the European Union countries, the European Community. Now, I wonder since our universities work and our universities work, and the figure is always at about 7% where does our highly educated go? Were those rows that were in front of some embassies to go to overseas countries or other countries, were various emissaries emissating according to our IT to tell educational institutions high, who are still looking for our brains to drag some of our high-level staff, especially in some of our interests abroad? And so we're standing at about 7% all the time. And clearly, the higher education that we've all highlighted here is closely related to the progress of the economy. And the overall quality of life in the Republic of Croatia. And now at the time of this recession, the economic crisis is, in fact, what we're coming up with is how to increase the number of higher education schools, how to enable again, so the place where they're being educated, so the creation of possibly new universities, universities. That's what everyone's looking for, every... He's looking for at least a university, and yet there's no money for it, and the need for highly educated is clearly expressed in all of us here and in our country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there is one divide, one contradiction in economic, economic indifference and the number of highly educated and which should be increased. Therefore, the number of universities or numbers enrolled in universities and universities should be increased. I personally have confidence in Mr. Minister that he will respect all these facts and in the second reading clearly even though it is not the wrong network of universities and universities in this bill but this should be thought of especially this or especially what I said was really a fact, some I watched on television that Pula intends to increase the number of students from 3,000 to 5,000. It was the dean of the Faculty of Pula in "Good Morning Croatia" not to advertise the shows, but I really must point out that on this continent, I will say the name clearly Slavonia, Srijem and Baranja, so east of Zagreb there is only one university and it is a feeling. Given the geographical location of the City of Slavonski Brod, given the corridor A3, given that the City of Slavonski Brod is a border town, the door of Bosnia and on a poorly developed area across the Sava River I plead that Mr. Ministers are thinking that, in the foreseeable or foreseeable future, the University of Slavonski Brod is also thinking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28615	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear representative Susana Bilic-Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28616	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague made several incorrect allegations. I'll fix two. First, when he talked about changing the educational structure of the Assembly MPs, he also referred to the City of Slavonski Brod. My colleague, it's incorrect because you're denying and against lifelong education. If you don't mind people being educated and further increasing the level of education, then say it, and it was very untasteful of these illusions that you've brought out here in this House of Commons. And another thing, when speaking to Mr. Minister about the poor position of the university in Slavonski Brod who really has the temporary permission of colleagues, I would like to correct that responsibility for the fate of the university in Slavonski Brod has the City of Slavonski Brod and the Brod-Posavina County. It is true that the local community must and has responsibility for the future of that university but that a colleague is correct and honest by the end then would say what is known in the City of Slavonski Brod about the fate of the university in Slavonski Brod the greatest responsibility is borne by the City of Slavonski Brod which cannot possibly give a location for the space of the university. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28617	Thank you. And now we have, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Dragan Primorac Minister of Science, Education and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28618	Thank you very much. Now you see how much better it is that I can perform as a scientist and a university professor than a minister, and I'm going to perform like that right now, but as you said for the truth because I really feel that with all due respect, at least some basic things as a scientist should be known. And now I'm going to give a few facts that I think are extremely important to solve. First, absolutely right is Professor Dr. Andrija Hebrang, because this is the most significant database of science, "web of science", which showed that the number of publications rose by 30% from 2006 to 2009. It is a drastic increase for all those who are in the system of science almost incredible for one small Croatian state. Here we talk about magazines that are quoted in all possible indices, here we talk about a database that is standardised, which applies to a Croatian scientist but also to a scientist who comes from the United States. So that's the data absolutely correct, correct. On the other hand, a fellow respected professor, Dr. Scientiarum Doric, whom I appreciate, knows that if, for example, he was educated in the work outside, too, he spoke publicly about the fact that some scientific project had not passed, that it was the target of criticism, of the entire academic community, it was a question of completely independent reviews. It's not a question of public debate. Because what would that mean? In order for anyone who gets the project to be publicly objected and the pressure of the public to do so. It's absolutely unacceptable to the scientific academic community. He was right when he said that Croatia had started, and exactly this government had the strength to run something extremely painful and it wasn't easy for me and it was an international review. And we did it. Every project went to at least one international review. And it wasn't easy to justify about 15% less permeability of these projects. But I would really ask for joint support for what is the Croatian Parliament, you who sit here have given huge support, so that is after 60 years that for the first time in accordance with, I will not stand here to highlight the European Union because in many segments there is a role model within the European Union but it is my right to speak and what is good in Canada, India, America so that I will not be attached to it alone. And that, be proud, is the new Law on the National Declaration of Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. Dear friends, this is the first time in the history of the Republic of Croatia that one team, I will say so by the Croatian Government but also the Croatian Parliament had the strength to bring a document that no one has dared in the last 60 years and that completely scientific projects outside the ministry are completely independent of the policy body and that is the National Foundation. It's the first time this crew has had the courage and that law is in the process. You know what that means? This means that the issue of the passing of scientific projects may be drastically reduced. I have no problem, I'm close to a thousand scientific quotes and you know who you are in science what that means. But many will have a problem and then I will ask for your support of these measures that make Croatia so recognizable. For 60 years, it has been waiting for Croatia to do what a German did through the DFJ or America through the National Science Foundation, and it is these very days that it is being considered by the authorities. And that's why I pray for courage and point it out. So all the questions regarding scientific projects that have been open for 60 years have now been resolved by the adoption of the law. Let me also say we were talking about the capacitation and strength of Croatian scientists. And for the sake of truth, I must say. We have paid 3.3m euros in the 6th Framework Programme and the Croatian academic community has withdrawn 16 in several years what it has put on, and read the press, reports from Brussels that we are among the leading countries in transition. What surprised us was extremely pleasant. And I don't want to give any recognition, not only do I not want to highlight this government, which indeed gave the prime minister the opportunity to make certain things happen that are politically very slippery. I want everyone in the entire academic community, and you know what it is, that in the 7th Framework Programme in the first year itself, Croatian scientists pulled a record 16 million kuna. And here present Dr. Fuks can testify to you today as 18 of the absolute record of all countries in the region. It was done by Croatian scientists, so what are we talking about here today? He was alone when the public commendation to the Republic of Croatia went. I don't need public praise from Brussels for what we know to be true. It is the strength of the Croatian academic community, but it is well highlighted. But we still had the strength to take another step past the European Union, and then it happened that in three years the scientific projects of the National Institute of Health were signed which only did so. It is the strongest American health science institution with a budget of 39 billion euros, appointed by the president of the United States. They made that contract with Israel, Germany and Croatia. A million dollars. It is a trust in the Croatian academic community. You're listening to all about Israel. Israel did it with four states, between them and Croatia. Japan is getting ready these days. And what Professor Cosic said to India. Now, for the sake of the public, I want to say another immensely important fact. So this government had the strength to finance scientific projects that as such go and have grown in the words of professors, doctors... My secretary of state 64% in the past 4 years, to make a step through the Croatian Institute of Technology far before the European Institute of Technology is established to provide new funding, which at this time in 2004 the ninth carry 225 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We talked about the economy, my colleague Flego is not here, but he knows Bikro, that Bikro was raised from the dead and that Bikro as Bussiness Innovation Center that connects the economy and science has so far invested more than 90 million kuna and the first companies that have created science, the economy operates in the Republic of Croatia. And yet I must point out another piece of information. This quality would not have happened, nor would it have been a chance to pass this law, that there are no other key aspects. So it's very simple to talk about science and education before election campaigns, but I'd like to see who achieved the first day after choosing this kind of thing. I again highlight the role of both the Government and the Parliament. 6 thousand and 200 new jobs open in the system of vertical education and science. 350 thousand square meters of space has been built by this government in the last five years of space at the university so that we can come to this stage today. That's why this law makes sense. He didn't make sense four years ago, not even five years ago. And let me tell you one thing that always makes me happy. Finally, there is a consensus on key issues. No one remembers that compulsory high school education is required until the first qualification. Now the poll is over 93%. But I need to tell you a few details about the state's graduation so it's clear. This booklet... /The speaker turned from the microphone. /... the strength of what she is. Here are the decisions of Croatian higher schools, Croatian universities, Senate decisions. They're the tallest bodies. So here we're not talking about academic debates, what someone thinks. I respect the dean and the rector's decision here. And to do one of them has agreed and accepted the state's graduation as a criteria of enrolment, of course with the necessary testing if it's a matter of dentistry, you have to have some manual or some other skills. So it's no longer a question of academic debates, it's been a matter of five years. The issue of external evaluations again, which happened for the first time several years ago thanks to the national centre and all of us, because that law was not passed by the Croatian Parliament, there is no government that can implement it because it is illegal. There are two key things, and these are the national exams that carry out the permanent evaluation of external education in schools, and these are the rankings that came out and the state's graduation which ultimately contributes to the formation of a ranking list of objective where everything depends exclusively on the success and knowledge of the child until then and the result of state graduation. And that's why this entrance exam is. So the situation is very clear. Croatia does not make any experiments, Croatia is very clearly following the experiences of others, respecting its own tradition. None of these projects are a project that is in any segment, I would say so innovative that it is risky, but no matter what, we agreed that in 2009, we are going to the experimental state prom to have time to fix everything for next year and that 32 thousand high school students would get into this project that I can justifiably call here we have spent a lot of them both Bologne and HNOS and Kurikulum the biggest project in the history of the Croatian education system. More than 450 working meetings past the academic community have brought together about 900 meetings, working meetings and working consensus. And that's the only truth to be said in that place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28619	Thank you. I have one notice, which is that at 10:53, the time has ended for individual applications for individual hearings. And now we have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28620	The Honored Mr. Minister said he would speak as a scientist. You've been sent here by the government and you speak for the government, which doesn't mean you can't speak for science, that's also desirable. However, it is precisely that he cannot speak as a scientist, but speaks as a representative of the government. And that doesn't mean you won't speak scientificly. And that is the problem, that you, Mr. Minister, must decide, given that the job of the minister, especially those that are before you, is so demanding, so exhausting, takes the job of every minister full-time and more than that, as well as scientists. And you'll have to decide whether you're going to be a scientist or a minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28621	Thank you. And now we're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Honorable representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28622	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Well, first of all, I would like to express my satisfaction that this extremely important law goes into two readings, because I am sure that after two readings, it will be significantly better quality and given the importance of the factor in the development of a better society. In this debate, I would not talk too much about the technical elements of this law but rather focus more on the role of education in society and the need to pass this law because of the quality of higher education and the contribution of the science of society. It is indisputable that education and science and the prerequisite and assumption of a better society are both a prerequisite and a presumption of more developed social relations but also a better and more certain future. The characteristic of every totalitarian regime is that the power of knowledge is in the hands of the minority, while in the nature of democracy is the tendency to make education available to everyone. It is not surprising, therefore, that in the early 1990s, only 5.7% of the highly educated population were in Croatia after the independence of the Republic of Croatia. In the area of science and higher education, Croatia has, in the meantime, made a respectable step towards both the number of students and the published scientific papers, as well as the scientific achievements achieved even in the international environment. In recent years, Croatia has allocated huge funds from the state budget to science and higher education even in billions of kunas, but it does not need to be regretted because these funds are invested in the long-term most profitable investment. True knowledge is invaluable, it is precious because it leads to more comprehensive and meaningful explanations than those we currently have, or possess. Education primarily refers to the introduction, in what is valuable, provided that certain content is entered and morally acceptable. Of course, this implies that education must also include the normative aspects that give it and that purpose, but education must ensure that all the parties involved in education preserve their moral autonomy. I welcome this proposal for a law on quality assurance in science and higher education because it is necessary for our society. A colleague, Doric, spoke about the zero degree of tolerance in corruption, science and higher education, and I am convinced that this law will also contribute to never repeating the scientific shame, called the code name index, but also to prevent a slight hint of commercialisation of higher education. I believe that no matter where a man is present, there are also human weaknesses. I believe that the introduction of state graduateship, the introduction of standards and criteria into science and higher education, the putting of the Agency for Science and Higher Education in a key place and a very important place in the system of higher education, will put education in the right place and will contribute to the growth of integrity and the formation of spirit independence. Only the growth of integrity and the formation of debt independence develops the rationality that is necessary in this society and avoids bias and thus a repressive social impact. This law sets out education objectives that will support such an approach in education and that will also oppose the indoctinator's potential attempts to control systems of creation, knowledge, because knowledge-making systems should serve public and general interests and not the personal or interest of groups. Educational problems are one of the most complex categories of social life. And she's a link to knowing what we're creating to... The world we live in. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Correct education has a direct impact on building a better society because it has long been confirmed that a man with a proper education generally becomes a good man. Let's not forget that only good people can build a better society. And it is known that in transition countries such as Croatia's political and economic systems can affect that individuals are more difficult to distinguish true values from instrumentalised values and that popular and not rational opinions are publicly formed. I am convinced that this law will contribute to the system of higher education and clear goals set by it, educate people in a way that will lead to a man who appreciates science, but also to a man who appreciates justice, truthfulness and the autonomy of the spirit. Even Plato said a long time ago that every learning, that every learning is not an education, but that, by education, it was called only an exclusive focus towards the acquisition of virtue. Several critical sentences on the Agency for Science and Higher Education could also be heard in the debates so far. I would point out that the Agency for Science and Higher Education has contributed greatly to the progress of education in Croatian society and that today, between 24 and 65 years of age, 18.5% has completed a professional or university study. Of course, I was greatly contributed by the Agency for Science and Higher Education. Thanks to the people who also work at the agency, but first thanks to the brilliant scientist and the teacher's principal, Dr. Jasmine... I therefore support and believe this law will contribute to the quality of education, higher education and science. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28623	Thank you. Dear Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28624	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. When we talk about the work of such an important institution, such an important area of society must be said that the motives that have contributed to this agency being formed and this law proposes we must all support. I will refer to the debate and colleagues of Doric who spoke about the necessity of the interaction of the economy, politics and science. And I think there is also the biggest problem, today in Croatia, which is why we have a lot of institutions that educate our fellow citizens for some titles, for some activities that are no longer needed in Croatia. The problem lies that there is not one vision, an economic strategy where Croatia will be 10 years from now and what we will be dealing with in Croatia, which is the strategic branch that will be the primary one, which will be the most necessary one, which will be the most necessary one to educate certain people. And of course, in this situation, you can't even have a good interaction between the economy and science, or you don't know the needs of the economy well enough and what you need. Most often this defines the market so it goes periodically into certain programmes that are needed in a shorter period, but if trends go the other way, then you no longer need these personnel and the whole system is quite inflexible. What I would say specifically about the law, I do not agree with the minister's position that such an agency was not even needed before because we had no conditions. He said now, several hundred thousand squares that have been built in recent years, I think that's exactly why they need such agencies to see. It is not only a question of study programmes, but also of the conditions where these study programs are being held and I will remember the 1990s when I studied at Zagreb University. At my university, conditions were very bad. I do not believe that they would meet the conditions that the agency will set before that university in the next period. So I think that this law was passed, if the agency had existed before, the conditions for the implementation of the study programmes would probably be improved faster than is now the case. As for the agency itself and its definition in the law, it should and should have the intensities to be appointed as an independent body. I think the solution in the law that defines the independence of the agency would be better as we formed most agencies on the proposal of Parliament. I am not saying, of course, that professional bodies must also have their own members, but I think that the President and two members should not appoint the Government, but should appoint Parliament in order to gain greater independence, or one greater legitimacy, as I say have been given to other agencies. Some things that are specifically within my law, and so I agree that it's good to go in two readings, maybe even make it right. The thing is, here's the thing: I have a lot of colleagues who have studied outside and who have problems accrediting their diplomas that they have acquired at foreign universities. I'm not saying that the agency should accredit all the programs that our fellow citizens and our fellow citizens have ended up at international universities, but in case one diploma is accredited, there are a lot of cases where we go to the same university, finish that same program, and then you have another individual evaluation of that diploma of yours. Perhaps the law should provide for accreditations by universities and programmes, not individual diplomas to avoid people waiting long enough for the same degree, accreditation by this agency. What I would like to point out is that it is not good when we do not have a well-developed system for individual interests, most often economically, to create a number of higher schools or study programs. This was seen in the case of Croatia where over 24 new universities have been established in the past three, four years, so we have hyperinflation of new universities, we have very many institutes that have been established. When we look comparatively with some countries in Europe, it turns out that there are many more institutes in Croatia than in one Switzerland. On the other hand, it was motivated, someone had talked about it before, that teachers and lecturers most often and uncritically because of the amount of lecture they teach at two, three universities, and then lost quality. I do not see the sense that the market, of course, has the need for certain staff, but most often not the market that is needed, which defines how much it needs certain activities, but simply there is a need to invest in the education of its employees in Croatia, there is a certain amount of money spent on education, and then it defines the development of certain studies to satisfy it, and not whether this is really the purpose of what we really need. Some things I've noticed in law and it's a matter of flexibility. It's pretty hard to get this initial accreditation, and I have a feeling about everything that's going on here that it's going to be a process that's going to take a year and more, because while it's all coming together. I think maybe there should be a little more flexibility there, because some conditions, some study programs, can also come up with a need for them in a shorter time. As for the nomotechnics themselves, in two, three articles I noticed and perhaps it would be a suggestion to define them. Here is Article 19.11. says the recommendation goes, so the Agency makes an accreditation recommendation within 60 days of receipt and it recommends the minister by accreditation recommendation. Now neither in these initial texts that explain the concepts that are explained in the law nor in this law tells which minister, so it turns out that we can propose to the Minister of Finance Shuker, not the Minister of Science. Probably, I guess this is where the Minister of Science was meant. It appears several more times in the law such an expression, so I would just nomotechnically suggest to the Proposer that then in these initial provisions which define the terms of which the minister is concerned. The second thing that is not very clear to me, which is why it is clear that this whole state graduation procedure that is going to make it necessary for this law to define this procedure, given that the acquisition of the state's graduation has nothing to do with the quality of science and higher education. It may be one rank that will satisfy our students in high school and transparency and this is all that the minister said I support, but I do not understand why it is specific in the responsibility of the agency, since it has no concrete connection with higher education and science. So it's only the procedure of one selection that will eventually be able to enroll our colleges. In the end, I say here, I hope that by the second reading these shortcomings will be corrected. There are both nomotechnics and these essentials. I support the adoption of laws that will define the establishment of a systematic relationship in ensuring quality in science and higher education. I would insist that apart from the study programmes or quality in the study programmes, it also insists on the quality of their performance because we are really witnessing at many of our universities and universities these conditions are not what they should be and on the other hand I think that the law should pay more attention to this segment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28625	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28626	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected representative of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. It was much more pleasant somehow when this point began when there was a minister and all his State Secretarys were speaking probably, and his truly inspired speech that he had had, however, would be good to have so much time and to listen to some other things that the rest of us would say because in my debate I would normally look back on and on him personally and about such an important law which he himself said it would be good to follow him until the end to plan such a time anyway. But what is, is. I'm going to say something about this bill on ensuring the quality of science and higher education that this law is for students who are getting schooled one of the important issues. As he is visible in the current legal provisions, this quality has not been well valorised, and this is why we certainly expect to have a better teaching with this law. The introduction of the Bologna Process with a big pomp and announced today by the current minister, Prof. The coaster. The example that Croatian higher education entered the European Union system before Croatia was officially admitted to the EU in this bill when we read in the assessment of the situation it is acknowledged that it is not entirely true. So we have not yet entered Europe with our education, or higher education. Why? So because we forgot to change the most important thing, which is the introduction of a new quality, a new education system. This led us to change the system of study, introduce new studies, and others on programs and people who spent them in the last century. It is often observed that because of the new organisation, lecturers visit universities and universities, hand over material that is not in the trend of the demands of European studies. The minister made some progress in publishing papers in magazines that are referred to at the highest levels of CARENT and others, but I ask whether there is any analysis of how many textbooks are written for students and how many professors who hold the subject for which they have not even written that the student can be used after the lecture with which their books or only cited literature can be used. I think the result of this is the lack of expertise of our completed students who are not ultimately profiting from our society, but often they are just a number that we want to achieve better status in the statistics that Europe requires of us in opening negotiations. There was talk here that 40,000 students were more and more. However, what is the quality of these graduate students. Why is that happening? Well, that's the job they often do, so-called. Traveling or even flying professors who often because of the increased number of colleagues in the Bologna process even have a double-digit number of subjects that teach. They work at universities and universities that often count on the fingers of two hands, travel from land to sea and vice versa without asking what about students who teach. And exactly the Bologna Process offers a different form of work, and we could see how, who were out there normally at other studies, how they work with students at universities of Europe or America. Why has this professor's trip become so current today? So this comes again from the following because the process of issuing permits has led us to open universities and studies not according to real needs in the area, in the city according to the demands of the economy already often towards political needs. The mayor or mayor who does not open at least one higher education institution has not fully achieved his work programme in office. It's often present. Today, the opening of a university is even used in political reckonings. I will give you one example when in the struggle to take over power in the city of Djakov, Mayor Vinkovic was removed after the running of the then coalition partner HSS to the second camp, he was objected to as if he was not doing what he failed to do to open up a university in Djakov. So that was one of his bad side that he didn't make and that's why they left him. All openings of higher education institutions in recent years have taken place under the current Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. Article 51 of that law, which is said to have not been able to control enough the rise of the network of higher education and study programmes has been made possible in the last three years, says material, the opening of 24 higher schools and has started with more than 250 new study programmes. All this has already been recognised by this House in the debate when we discussed the report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education. That's why I think it's high time to start changing the law, that's why. the adoption of this which we have before us in the debate, the necessity of reorganising the network of higher universities and public, scientific institutions in the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Parliament should be established as soon as possible. I think without a network that we need to have happening again, regardless of these changes that are now, which are passed by the agency in this law and everything else that needs to be done again, there will be these pressures. I therefore think that by the next reading, the proposed solutions, the means of ensuring quality in higher education, should be critically considered, with the need for the National Council for Science and the National Council for Higher Education not to be exempt from making individual evaluation decisions when making decisions on new universities and studies. I think it's also in this material that the board made stand and it should certainly see what it can do to another reading about it. It must not only be a decision by the Science and Higher Education Agency because they will continue to have pressures, they will continue to have pressures, they will still have political mentors who will want to do something again that should not go. And I think you need to take over this policy and this agency that's going to have a great deal of pressure that there's some kind of surveillance. I think that national council could certainly be like that. And finally, I hope the proposed law will strengthen the criteria for the opening of new higher education institutions, but the question is, what has been opened so far? In order to satisfy the quality, it is necessary to carry out evaluations every 5 years, as stated here, and not as it has ever been, when that deadline has not been decoded. And those who don't have the conditions I think that regardless of this or that, they should be locked up, or those students moved there to learn where they can get better conditions. In particular, I think that these evaluations should refer to those who have not created spatial conditions, laboratories, exercise sites, test surfaces and so on, and should most closely control which expert staff they have, i.e. How many teachers in these educational institutions are in a permanent working relationship, and how many flying teachers come and go even faster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28627	Thank you. Honorable representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28628	Dear Vice President, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the Law on quality assurance in science and higher education. The Proposer himself, the Ministry of Education, led by the Minister of the Sea, acknowledges that bad practice has been happening in Croatia for years, in accordance with the unarranged law and that according to this poor law, an educational programme has been implemented at certain universities. However, I, as a layman, must judge that pouring the Minister's ashes and his confession that he has done bad things to us absolutely means nothing to us. In the last three years, Minister Primorac has issued a certificate for as many as 24 new higher universities with more than 250 approved educational content which he now claims in his explanation that in certain cases their programmes are overlapping and that this impressive figure has a negative impact on the quality of the education system as a whole. When Minister Primorac signed a permit for the establishment of a single university, often under inadequate conditions and with insufficient personnel, he must have known what he was doing. Not only did he deliberately undermine the quality of the education system as a whole, but he also inflicted irreparable damage on students who entered such universities and who gained expertise, as we now hear questionable qualities. Whether the minister will take responsibility, not according to the law, but according to these concrete people who enter the world of employees disabled by the knowledge they have acquired thanks to the poorly designed law of the promoter. One more question is inevitably raised from this one for Minister Primorac. The new law as provided for in the proposal in Article 22 introduces the notion of periodic reaccreditation every 5 years, i.e. at the assessment of the minister or university himself. Paragraph 5 states that the minister can deny a high-school pass and, in that case, the agency undertakes to ensure that students who remain without a place of study will continue their studies. That, however, is unclear and raises many questions. For example, if the minister deprives one of the newly established high schools in small places across Croatia from an economic direction, where are the children supposed to enter, in what way? On the other hand, the Ministry of Science has already given permits for various high schools, and it is quite clear that norms and quality in these schools will not be met in time. On the one hand, we will have a strict application of the law, and on the other hand, the minister is politically willing to establish a high school which is already clear that they do not have minimum conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28629	Thank you. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28630	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We are facing a law that will certainly significantly improve the quality of science and higher education in the area that has made a major step over the past few years. Today we have heard here, clearly and critical opinions and assessments, which is quite justifiable and expected because such a step as has been made by the restoring ministry in the field of improving the system of science, stimulating scientific projects in higher education has not been made in the past few decades and it is logical to take such a big step to introduce certain corrections in it, which is what makes this law right now. What's been done in these few years? I'll just say a few details. In the field of science, a major step has been made to encourage the selection of scientific projects, in the stimulation of young scientists, in increasing the isolation for science. As a result, I said a little while ago. The result is a significant increase in scientific works by Croatian scientists in international index publications, which means works that are subject to international review and it is the only recognition we can accept in the scientific publication. In one of the largest databases, web science, in the last three years, the number of scientific works by Croatian authors has increased with, I say, 2 424 works per 3 289 papers per year, which is an increase of 30%. In another one's idea of work... which includes some other narrow areas, that number has increased by 328 works in three years or 20%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think we need a second evaluation of everything that the Resort Ministry has done to encourage science itself, its development. It may just add that the number of projects reported to the resolution ministry between 2002 and 2006 increased by 46% from a thousand to two thousand to seven hundred and something, that the number of reviews was 5,638, of which 30% or 1/3 are reviewers abroad. This proves to us that there is a well-expressed tendency of the ministry to bring our science into the framework of international science by introducing an international review which significantly increased the quality of our scientific projects and one of the reasons for increasing these scientific works in the international indices that I was talking about. And perhaps not most important, but one of the most important money allocated to scientific projects in the last four years has been increased by 52%, which shows also the direction of this government and this ministry in the known fact that that society that promotes the development of science cannot have bad consequences in the entire society and at least tomorrow in the economy. But the same can be said of higher education. Even greater steps may be made, and that is why it is necessary to make as much regulation as is proposed here, and this means enhanced further organisation of quality control in higher education. In three years, some say a good job was done, some say bad work. I'd say it's a great job because 24 new schools have been opened and 250 new study programs have been introduced. Too many critics say, it can be taken to be too much, but when we remember what we had before that period and we were at the beginning of a European high-school staff that I am not talking about professional study programmes, and all of this was reflected in the overall development and highly educated structures in our economy and the introduction of new technologies and everything Professor Cosic spoke of earlier. In these last three years of these projects, we have received 41 thousand new students, which will be seen very much in the overall indicators of the development of the Republic of Croatia in the coming years and when the minister says 350 thousand square meters of new space at higher universities is an extraordinary data, but I would say more, more and never enough. And all those who think it's going too fast I don't think they're right, of course they have the right to their arguments but what's step up that step is positive and we can't put it back. Six thousand 500 new jobs in a high education system. And the data we recently read that the number of people with university or professional studies increased to over 18% is actually I would say the result of all these efforts. And where are we today? After all these commendations, you should say that when you do big procedures like this, you make mistakes. Don't make them conscious but simply because a big bite was swallowed, something went away with it that didn't really need it. So several issues have been raised that will be resolved by the law that was passed here, which certainly is not the only one and the final one in control of the system, but is only the first big step. Perhaps when we say what was being subdued in this rapid development of higher education and higher education and science, we can say the control of personnel did not go the same way as development and increasing the number of universities. And it's impossible to produce so many people in such a short time. The consequence of that is what we read these days in the paper, university professors teach at five, six institutions, travel, call them traveling, I call them and wandering teachers. This is the necessary evil in the transitional period. Surely it is a drop in quality, but this step will surely give birth to a new quality especially when the institutions of control proposed by this law are introduced. It's the second question of the programs themselves. Well, surely, when you introduce this huge number of 250 new university programs in just three years, it's been subdued and some program that might not have earned it. But maybe it's better at first to release a bunch of these programs, so let the game bring them down to the number we need. Especially a competition with those programmes that offer developed countries in the European Union and beyond. That is why I think the proposed law will correct the criteria for the approval of the programme, reduce their number and thus increase quality. What is still to be said may not be so highlighted in this quality proposal, and this is a system for the advancement of higher education teachers. This system should also be uniformised, this system should also pass its quality control, level it with quality and criteria in advanced European Union countries because it is the only way we will be able to implement the Bologna processes and produce such students, such experts as they will be able to be competitive on the European market. That's why progress projects should be evened out, somewhere progressing very quickly. We have examples these days that someone has progressed because they attended three foreign conventions held in Croatia. I don't agree with that. There must be a condition of foreign congress but with participation abroad because how you sweat when 5 hundred people in English begin to resolve after a lecture, it is the only barrier I recognize and which should be introduced to teachers of higher school institutions. But let's go to the conclusion. The project ahead of us is a good project because it introduces several systems of surveillance, internal surveillance, external surveillance. The Agency, which certainly has great powers, must be very independent of policy, the Agency must have great powers, but it and its work must be measured by the criteria of similar agencies in the countries of the European Union. I particularly welcome Article 18, which introduces a quality improvement system that will implement the agency by evaluating and comparing projects with projects in other countries. And Article 22, which introduces mandatory recredit every five years. For some universities, it would probably take a lot more often, every two or three years. I also think that it is good to introduce some kind of mentorship in two years at the beginning of the introduction of a new high school although some are criticising it but mentoring is good because introducing a high school in daily drive is the most responsible job in one country. And I conclude, I think that the law that is ahead of us is a new big step that must certainly be improved until the second reading but not rejected but strongly supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28631	Thank you. We have three replicas. First is Honorable Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28632	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Very short. The data concerning the University of Rijeka where I work and about the publications of fellow Hebrang differ significantly from your data. Not that in the last ten, eleven years there has been an increase of 40 percent but 300 percent, so a very good shift. I was talking about it, in an interview with the New List and the Voice of Istria very detailedly explained some colleges far better than others, medicine, buildings, technical colleges great, others far from that. So we can't put everything in the same basket. Encouraging scientific projects, I agree with you to do so, but in what way. Do not those who are excellent get more, and those who are worse get less, and those who are bad get nothing. It's supposed to be like that. 250 new study programs. As far as they are concerned with the real needs of this country, as certain ministers have reported to the Minister of Education, let us need so many doctors, so many nurses, so many teachers, so many soldiers, so many cops, whether we educate people based on it or whether those 250 study groups are founded at random and whether these people will end up at the work desk or end up somewhere in some economic entity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28633	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28634	Thank you very much. A colleague is true that certain publications produce different results. So you listed a publication with a lot more published works than I mentioned. This depends on what individual indices or individual groups of indices include, which areas as many magazines. So the data can differ. And that information of yours is accurate, too. So when we specify the source we must always specify. I've listed the Web Science and listed it with Caren Countries so everyone needs to specify what it is and then we'll come down to the common denominator. I also agree that projects should be coordinated with needs. Surely, when this rapid development of higher education has not been able to bring the proposed projects into line with the needs and it must certainly be synchronised with the economic sector, because this is one of the objectives of the programme's development. But it is not just the economic sector, it needs to be brought into line with both the needs of science and the needs of social activities, etc. What I don't think I agree with you, which is that in the project assessment it needs more rigor. You said you shouldn't say a bad project gets less than it gets nothing. Well, that's exactly what the ministry proved, because if you're looking at the percentage of the negatives, that percentage is 30% higher than it was before. It probably needs to be increased, that's what you wanted to say. But of course it's an unpleasant situation when you have to reject projects, and the minister himself has now said it's not easy to take blows when you refuse 30% of the projects more than in the previous period. And I think I agree with you that it should be supported here and that it is one of the main quality criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28635	We have another replica, it is the esteemed representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28636	Dear fellow Hebrang I share your pleasure especially with the increase of papers published in the base which is covered by Caren County- Unfortunately it is a masking state, because it is still far from enough works, especially when it is known that the Caren Countries base covers natural science professions. Furthermore, the fact is that there is an increase in the number of published works coming a year or two after the approval of the projects, simply because scientists are committed to what they should do. write scientific papers instead of writing projects. I also have to say that I am extremely pleased that you share your opinion that we should examine the criteria of progress in calling, especially in the section of writing textbooks. Because paradoxically, for some professions are envisaged Caren Countries works to advance in the calling. Let's start with my physics profession, and no single work in Croatian is planned. I'm asking a rhetorical question. How are we going to develop Croatian scientific terminology from physics, biology, chemistry and many other sciences, while also unstimulating the writing of high school textbooks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28637	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28638	Thank you very much. Well, here I am going to start right from this last one you said. really in the promotion criteria is too much I would say scientific papers, and not enough textbooks for the education of students. And the fact is that with all the Caren Countries and the other conditions that we have in our advancement, one condition must be introduced, and that is that you can't advance by one step more, from a doctor to an extraordinary from a regular university professor, if you haven't written a textbook from that class, or if the department hasn't published a textbook in which this teacher who wants to advance was the author of one section or several chapters. We have introduced this in my university, at the Faculty of Medicine in Zagreb and we do not have the defects of textbooks since when it is a condition for advancement. And this is something that should certainly be transplanted as an experience in all higher schools, because the student must read foreign literature, but the basic textbook must be in Croatian.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28639	Thank you. And a replica of the esteemed representative of Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28640	Thank you very much. The esteemed Vice President of the Parliament. Well, Mr. Hebrang's investment in science must have been very visible from this and 41 thousand new students and quotes in world magazines, etc. But what is the result of the graduate students? You know what, that reminds me of that investment in agriculture in the last few years 18 billion, how much food imports are bigger than ever. Well, here's the milkmen who were here yesterday, they didn't come to protest over anything but because 77% of the milk imported last year, but years ago. However, in the very presentation at the end of these commendations, you said there was also a fall in the profession and studies. The real result of I think that investment will be when the economy says that the science, schools and staff they really need, and especially to say that these are quality personnel. That's why we're thinking, and we're all probably here to strengthen this quality through this law, but without the criticism of the existing one, we won't be able to pass a better law which is certainly our goal, and that's why I think and participate in these discussions with remarks that I think are of a better quality and that it will make a better law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28641	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28642	Thank you very much. Without criticism, there is no progress, I agree with you. That's why in the final, third, let's say my speech, I've been speaking very critically about both wandering professors and the criteria of progress and the standards they must have... So, the criticism is welcome. I just wanted to point out that it's good to have something to criticise. Because what the ministry has done, let's take the last three years, is really such a leap that we can dress it up now, criticize it, without it stepping out we wouldn't have anything to discuss today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28643	Thank you. And we're moving on with an individual debate. It is up to the honourable representative Željko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28644	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I join everyone who points out the importance of quality assurance in science and higher education, because it is without any phrase, a literal question of Croatia's future. It is indeed surprising, therefore, that there was no intention of such unquality material being adopted by an emergency procedure, because there was no necessity for it, a team before the chapter concerning this law was already closed. This also warns us about the Forum for Ethics and Development of Higher Education Science, which all clubs have received, which lists as many as 30 points that are controversial in this law. And we made an effort in the SDP to forward that material to the ministry. And we hope that at least part of the remarks listed in this material will be included in the preparation for a second reading in order to make this material much more quality. We have also heard today that quality assurance in science and higher education is also the best way to prevent the corruption they have in science. Corruption is present in Croatia capillaryly in all parts of society, from university porters to high-ranking officials and politicians. And street corruption, nepotism, abuse of position, each in their own way destroy Croatian society, but it is certain that corruption in both the education system and science must be paid special attention. Fighting corruption is also a fight against poverty. And knowledge is a power that we can fight at the same time with corruption and poverty. It is therefore very important that this law on quality assurance in science and higher education really represents the possibility of curbing not only corruption, therefore, of course there should be zero tolerance and that it must be reduced and suppressed but will never be completely eradicated, unfortunately, the same should be recognised. However, sometimes it is necessary to condemn other forms of corruption that may not be under cross-responsibility but are often more destructive to life and work in the system of science and higher education such as, I will list some, i.e. nepotism, non-transparent and conflicts of interest marked system allocations for scientific technological projects, scientific equipment, scientific novices, publishing tools and other material separations from the budget, violation of the rationality norm of large building facilities within the old and when opening new scientific higher education institutions, nela... in many universities and the use of material and human, which are usually resources for personal breakthroughs and profits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Opportunism, conflict of interest and frequent violation of the most basic ethical norms and sublegal acts in the course of the elections in scientific teaching, teaching cooperation skills, the use of... associations and open and hidden methods of intimidation of "theirs", under quotes and awards of "ours", under quotes, when selecting the head of scientific higher education institutions at all levels with complete absence of any responsibility for the compensation of the proceedings of such elected autonomous leaders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have the freshest example of the Poreč Institute that nobody seems to be able to put an end to their director even though it violates all the rules of conduct that should be implemented by the head of an institute that is also known to the Ministry of Science and the Administrative Council but nothing is happening. Violation of ethical norms, authorship and quality of scientific works published in domestic scientific publications, not taking steps to sanction all of this. So this law would, without a doubt, have to make it possible, and let me still look back at some solutions that are proposed in a law that I don't consider good, we heard today that, in fact, it shouldn't be critical of 24 new higher schools, according to 250 study programs, it shouldn't be critical, it's a question of who works in those schools and to what extent students can get to a professor who should teach them something. So, we think that we have 40,000 new students more than before, so that doesn't mean anything, Croatian students study the longest, and Croatian students are at least finishing their studies. Thus, having more than 20,000 students without simultaneously increasing the number of those who have graduated and who have acquired knowledge that they will be able to apply in practice does not mean anything. It is particularly interesting that Articles 19 and 20 provide that the Agency may adopt a negative opinion or reject a request for accreditation but at the same time it does not foresee that, at the same time when it adopts that solution, it must support that opinion, make a proposal for improvement and correction... the absence and the opportunity to give the institution an opportunity to manifest itself and to correct, within a certain period, everything that was concerned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also think that it is not a good solution in Article 22 that private scientific organisations and other legal entities financed from the state budget are subject to periodic recredit only in the part in which they are financed from the state budget. So, my people, what does that mean? This means that private organisations, if financed from other sources, can carry out their activities regardless of any control and quality parameters. Well, that's crazy, it can't be allowed to in this way not to insist on recrediting such institutions. So there's still a lot of objections, and I'm not going to take up precious time for fellow parliamentary deputies, and we're going to pass this on to the Ministry of Science, and we're hoping that the second reading will be, that the law will be much more quality than in the form we've got it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28645	Thank you. We now have three corrections to the incorrect assumption. First is the distinguished representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28646	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague said that 40,000 more enrolled students meant nothing. Well, that's just not true. 40,000 newly enrolled students mean that it is possible for 40,000 people to finish college, and if it does not end, if it ends one year or two years, the level of education in Croatia has increased again. Don't laugh, everyone who goes to college has increased their level of education. If you're laughing at it, look at what America's been doing in the '70s, enrolling huge amounts of students. And increased the level of education in America and in the '60s. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28647	Thank you. The second correction to the incorrect allegations is the esteemed representative Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28648	Mr. Vice President, as a university professor, I also have to admit that I cannot accept it, and I consider it an incorrect claim from my colleagues that 40,000 new students mean nothing. Surely we can't judge with quantitative elements the value of our school system, but the fact that increasing the number of students means increasing the number of chances and the fact is that it's very important. Of that we absolutely must not give up and, in fact, the greater the number of young people we give the chance to study, the greater the chance that our entire social life and our entire education structure will be better and better.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28649	Thank you. And distinguished representative Berislav Roncevic, correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28650	Likewise, Mr. Vice President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of my colleague Jovanovic, 40 thousand students no longer mean anything. It's just not true. 40,000 students are more like 40,000 chances. Regardless of all the programs, quality and conditions, as a former graduate student, and today as a parent, I can say this exclusively depends on the student, on the same programs, on the same perfect or imperfect professors. Some end up, some don't finish, so it's not about the quality of the program, under technical conditions. There's only one thing about a personal relationship between a student, a child, a young man to a commitment. 40,000 students are 40,000 chances and the higher the number of students, the more opportunities for Croatian youth.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28651	Thank you. We're moving forward with an individual debate. And here comes the distinguished representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28652	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Education has long become a good business, recognizable in the world, and indeed globally, it has spread again from the United States of America. There is one trend of unaccredited universities that betrays high school diplomas based on some experiences and some previous educations. So, governments around the world are dealing with this problem in different ways, and it is good that this law has come into the parliamentary procedure to improve the quality of our higher education. After all, in Croatia, we also had one or two episodes similar when individual universities metastasized with very, very dubious programs, and besides that, the coalition government of Prime Minister Racan came into play, and it was successfully completed by this particular ministry of yours that you work in. And that's good. However, when it comes to the quality of science and higher education, and in particular about the institution that will oversee and implement it, so on the Agency for Science and Higher Education, it is also unacceptable that this law does not provide for the accreditation of the Agency itself. It is just the implications of this on page 3 and 4 when it is said that the membership of the Science and Higher Education Agency is expected in the European High Education Security Association, i.e. the ENQA and the European High Education Insurance Register (EQAR). But in law alone, there's no condition for that to happen. I don't see any reason why it wouldn't be requested from that agency that will have an extremely large social responsibility, I hope the competence to make it legal to ask it. Because, let's remember that accreditation is a process of formal attesting or certification and issuing certificates of competence and credibility. And how one can be expected to issue such a certificate if it doesn't pass the same process itself. The same applies to the National Foundation for Science and the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, which is also mentioned in different contexts in this law, but neither is external accreditation intended for them. Furthermore, this law mainly speaks of higher education although there is also a mention of science in its title. However, almost nothing is involved in scientific institutes and scientific work at such institutes that we have 29 public institutes nominally. However, the fact is that over 90% of scientific works and scientific production comes from the first four, five institutes. In this context, it should consider a condition which defines that the issue of a permit to a new higher school is necessary for this new school to be implemented during the first two years by a study programme entrusted to it by an already existing higher school, because, in itself, such a condition is the way to some death in the state of hibernation, lack of innovation. For what if existing programmes are simply not innovative enough for a modern society that is rapidly changing and therefore there is no possibility of adapting to needs and demands not only of markets, but also of modern research. Furthermore, this very condition if we put him in touch with the institutes is at least dubious. For example, if we absorb your Institute "Ruđer Boskovic", but let us take the second and third largest institute in the Republic of Croatia, so they have more published works than even two or three universities, some of the universities in the Republic of Croatia together. So one institute is by scientific production larger than one university. Also, the fact is that many scientists working in public institutes also teach some colleges and universities, and that's good because it's the best connection between science and education. It is also good that many institutes have already set themselves up to intensify the transfer of knowledge towards the economy and it is especially good for people who participate in such processes to transfer their knowledge, knowledge and experience to students. I ask a rhetorical question why, for example, “Ruđer Boskovic” or the Institute of Physics or the Institute of Medical Research does not, at least in practice or in theory, allow them to offer themselves some educational content without having to formally connect with some of the existing universities in the Republic of Croatia so as to interpret this requirement that new higher universities can only be created from the already existing universities. It should also be said that this law is more focused when it comes to this budget section on the growth of the administration, and less on the scale of things, i.e. instruments and costs to be generated in the evaluation process itself. Then, the three-year deadline cited for correcting certain actions in the review process is unacceptable. Three years is an extremely long time. Enough to establish a high school, let alone correct certain actions that are not well rated in the evaluation process. In any case, this is a law that needs to be supported, but it also needs to be considered on many, many changes and improvements. And I personally think that it should still play a slightly greater role for the government and the ministry itself to feel in it just to prevent the possibility of the proliferation of unaccredited higher education programmes and even the proliferation of accreditation institutions that then carry out accreditation of suspected higher education programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28653	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28654	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to say just a few words at the end of this debate. First of all, I personally don't have any dilemma that quality assurance is one of the most important blocks in the mosaic, so to speak of the establishment, and then the survival of every system of education, and so on and higher education. And in this sense, I welcome the adoption of this law and also thank you for yesterday's acceptance of my initiative that this law still goes in two readings. This debate today shows that it was on the one hand a legitimate request, and on the other hand that it was good that you accepted such a method. The law will receive my support in the first reading, but like many colleagues before me, I would like to point out that the law needs to experience significant improvements until the second reading itself so that my support can be obtained in the second reading, and I think another number of MPs should be supported. With everything that's been said here, with what the law needs to be complemented, I wouldn't repeat the things that I agree with, but only a few things that seem to me to be not highlighted or not sufficiently highlighted. First, it seems to me that there must be a quality definition in the law at least one general level or at the level of principle or value in the very system of higher education and science as well as measurable quality indicators, i.e. the method of determination through which instruments can be done in such a way as to say quality evaluation. This is important because we have, in some way, had a commitment and evaluation and quality monitoring until now, but this has not always happened optimally and many colleagues have pointed out here in the debate and it is very often pointed out as an argument in the debate here in the Croatian Parliament expressing satisfaction with some law of hope that with this act of law-making many things will change. Unfortunately, we in Croatia have people that we have in this sector too, so to speak, highly educated people who are marked by excellence in terms of planning the very system of higher education and science, we actually have very few people. And to us, if we don't have very clearly set criteria, and I repeat, we won't have other people than those we've had so far, the essential things are basically not going to change. And to me, in that sense, it is alarming what the minister in the opening statement pointed out that, in fact, the fact that the authorities have actually allowed themselves over the last three years to approve 24 new higher schools and 250 new student programs. All these new programs, all those new high schools were supposed to meet the standards to say the Bologna process itself. I can't go any different here now than the flat-rate one, I'd like to make a mistake in that, but all of what I get as an advocate is information from people who are either students of these studies or professors or students say that actually these credentials and accreditations weren't always issued in accordance with the criteria they were supposed to be issued with. And I repeat, in this sense, a good law will not change that and I stress that therefore the importance that these procedures are in some way defined in the law. So this problem of hyperinflation of new universities has already been highlighted here and I want to point out once again that this hyperinflation has occurred precisely in the last few years and I think that if we don't change... So to say ways of thinking about this problem by passing the law, we're not going to change anything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so far, the Higher Education Council should have created a network of higher schools, proposed it to the government, the government to bring it in. According to the new proposal on the same proposal, the Croatian Parliament will bring about but what to say systemically doesn't change because we should have the network so far, and we haven't had what we said in the debate at the Annual Report of the National Higher Education Council should repeat that we are now really expecting the National Council to propose to us now as the Croatian Assembly a network that should then be the base for initial permits, i.e. the initial accreditation given by the Agency. I'm asking you in the law to kind of point out that link between a document called a network of high schools and this initial issue of accreditation because, so to speak, a link that's logical, I hope it's also real, it doesn't exist formally, it doesn't exist in the law, and I think it should exist. Another example of the thesis that by passing the law alone if we're not going to change anything, if we don't actually put that job on other basics are actually experiences from, to say the first round of accreditation when actually all the study programs, all the high schools, all the universities were getting new credentials or accreditations for programs according to the Bologna process a few years ago. Rarely, at that time, the high school had received this initial accreditation according to the criteria, the Bologna criteria although this should have been respected at the time. We witness today that in some of our higher universities, therefore there are exceptions, it is not valid for all the halls, that student groups, seminar groups, training groups and several dozen times as they should be. And it's actually asking a question that maybe it's a little bit hieretic to say in this room and in this debate, but whether it's actually going to be a courage to remove the credentials for those who, despite several years, haven't made an improvement in their standards of holding, here's the first thing they're going to do now. Because if we can have an understanding of transitional periods, if we can have an understanding that we can't suddenly say ok, half the colleges or half the colleges will be abolished because we don't meet the criteria because it wouldn't be simply wise to do it, but give them some transition period of a few years to improve their quality of teaching, and if they didn't, here in the past 4 or 5 years they've done nothing. Are we going to stare at a situation like this or is something going to happen? I'd like something to happen because if then, I say, the initial teaching, so the first kind of encounter that must be the basis for building and excellence and science itself doesn't work, it's hard to have a function on these higher levels. And that's why I'm repeating and I hope that in some way it's also a powerful argument for that thesis that I said at the beginning, that these basic definitions and quality assurance procedures must be within the law itself. There's one thing I want to point out in this debate because there seems to be a lot of misunderstanding about it. That's the question and position of the state's graduation. What, colleagues and colleagues, is the purpose of national graduation? State graduation by its own definition and by the practice in the countries implemented by it is an external evaluation of the system, I hope soon a mandatory system of secondary education. These are not substitutes for classification exams for high school enrolment, and that is nothing more than an external evaluation of secondary education, primarily. Why is this external evaluation being carried out? On the one hand, to get, to make a unilateral and objective assessment of the qualification of students at the end of high school education that we know where we are, but also on the other hand that we know which innovations, what changes in the very system of secondary education should we bring in? And it's completely wrong for the state's prom to take classification exams for high school enrollment. And in that sense, that central reception office must have a different purpose because, I think, my colleague Flego was talking about it, part of it was translated and copied, but in that part of it, it actually lost its purpose. About the state's graduation, a few questions. Some day a publication was published on the demands of the university, the colleges confirmed the the thesis because they only partially accept the results of the state's graduation. A student asked me yesterday at a meeting with the students, students apply to the central reception office, and they don't know what to attend the state's graduation, they want to enroll in an economic college. The Faculty of Economics in Zagreb and the Faculty of Economics in Split, so one is the first choice, the second is the second choice, looking for a different level of state graduation. Who do they lay down? Lower or higher? So, same programs, same colleges looking for different things at the state prom. What about students who decide to take a year off? What about our colleagues who decided to go to college next year and didn't go to state school? So these are one completely unresolved issues that we're going to have to solve within the next few months, I think we should have already sort of solved them. And two things short at the very end, this law should not be marked P.Z.E. I've warned several times about, say, sticking to the P.Z.E. seal. to the laws which are and are not European, this law is not the one, it is a alignment with the Bologna process, but I repeat, it has nothing to do with this formal accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The argument is also in that legislative harmonisation plan adopted by the Croatian Parliament, and this law is not there. Thank you. So with my support of this law, I hope substantial improvements until the second reading of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28655	Thank you. We have two replicas. First is Honourable representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28656	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, Lugarić, and you also said in your section that what to do with the universities that have polyferic, which have no conditions for quality teaching, so the premises are overcrowded, there are no professors, no teachers available, no mentoring work. And that's where we get to my line where the HDZ colleagues only took half of the sentence. So I repeat again, nothing will matter to us 40 thousand students more if it does not result in a larger number of graduate students who will be able to enter the world of economy in Croatia through the knowledge they have gained in the study.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28657	Replica reply, distinguished representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28658	My colleague Jovanovic, I absolutely agree with you. Otherwise, I think, if it's too dangerous to do a lot of things, then it's particularly dangerous in education, higher education and science and I say again, I'm asking if we're going to kind of cut that normative or hypernormation into the documents themselves, boasting where we should and where we don't need one little further goal and considering one big picture, and that's finally progressing. Because it really doesn't mean anything to us to a greater number of students if they don't finish their studies or if they end up studying in poor conditions, so they don't have the qualifications they're supposed to have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28659	Thank you. And another replica, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28660	Thank you very much. Here, colleague Lugaric, you've guessed a lot, I'd say the goals that need to be corrected, but I wouldn't agree with the findings you said, unfortunately we have people like us. I think fortunately we have people like us because when you look, we're discussing higher education and science today, we're comparing ourselves to the Bologna system, we say we have too much, not too little study programs, we're measuring ourselves with... and other indexed publications. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Look, we started reforming our system ten years ago. In fact, 10 years ago, there was a war in this country. Well, did we expect to do more than we did? I think the step is really important because it's actually 10 years of war and it's not for a while to develop these two systems of higher education and science. Well, it's because today we have such a wide base of 250 teaching programs that we can also correct. Without a wide base, it might be better if we didn't have it. I think we better have one. We are today comparing ourselves with whether we have reached the standards of Bologna. Well, of course we didn't because we started a few years ago. The European countries have done so for decades. And yet we have brilliant examples. I can say that my college has not felt a Bologna process at all because we have nothing to change at all, we've been in the Bologna process for decades because we've been thrown out of international competition, social activities, maybe some other colleges haven't. Now we have the possibility of mocking international competition and everything will go faster for sure. If we hadn't done what we did, I would have agreed that unfortunately we have people like us. I think it's fortunate we have them, and that's why we can discuss this today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28661	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28662	You know, fellow Hebrang, when you have a glass that has half the water, you can view it as half full and half empty. So the legitimate view of luck is we have people like we have, I can agree with that view. However, I think that in this debate, however, it is important to warn the other side of the medal, which says that all the same people have allowed some kind of disturbance, acquittals to those they should not have allowed. So I agree with you in some way in the part that we need to take these steps further, that we've been doing them for a number of years. Maybe we wouldn't agree on dynamics but it seems less important to me now, but that somewhere I'm strategically around it there's a consensus. And when I was talking about unfortunately having people like us asking who would correct that condition. Again, these same people, and that was only said in that context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28663	Thank you. And we're moving on with an individual discussion. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28664	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Knowledge, health and justice are the foundations of a country and for a country, one society is more important than its economic power. And when certain countries, societies failed at least, it was the cause of their economic downturn and most of all because they were knowledge of health and on their own justice that penetrated the oxide of the money that distributed them. Do we have health, justice and then knowledge for sale? This proposal for a law on quality assurance in science and higher education with a final bill and how Mr. Minister chose to present it and as an anti-corruption law should certainly contribute to that. The way it's conjectured along with these remarks that my colleagues spoke very metrically about, there's no need for me to repeat it in that sense because then I'd do it worse than they did. However, why this good suggestion to corrupt certain things that are essentially unspeakable and then we wonder what she was talking about right now, colleague Lugaric, why even such good laws do not provide the content that they should guarantee and which they have referred to certain addresses. We have one paradox to pass laws, which are then a guarantee of some changes in society, but the paradox is that things are still getting worse in many segments. Then what's the problem? The problem is in the picture and in the message they send to citizens on their own, and it is on its own to those who then apply certain laws and norms. When he presented this bill there was a Mr. Minister, it seems to me that another five, six colleagues were from his ministry except for Mr. Secretary of State. As they listened to themselves, as soon as a word of criticism came, Mr. Secretary went and followed him and the whole world. Isn't science exactly the one that has to be open to different, to the other, not to one brain. It's the only way to get scientific knowledge, and it's best known by Minister Primorac. But why not create a picture like that? But at least this is important. This may not even matter. However, what my colleagues were talking about, my colleague Jovanovic, are questions about how we are perceived by people and then by intellectuals and scientists on their own. As it is possible to ask you a few years ago that the Ministry of Science announced a tender for scientific projects to be quite logically and reasoned by decision, the measuring decision of the Council or the bodies decided by the Ministry of Science to receive funds for its scientific project scientist Gabro and then to then give up the intervention of Dean Chikesh of the Medical Faculty without a word of explanation. I think that's primarily what the elements of home care, the elemental decency to explain why the resources are being taken away from the doctor, the scientists of Gabro who got exactly by all the criteria that the means for one necessary cell classing machine seem to me. And where did those funds go? These funds went to the Neuron Polyclinic to buy the most modern 3 Tesla magnetic resonance device that serves the citizens, in what way? So, obtained and bought by state resources, come citizens, patients who have to pay dearly for that review. And by the way, the Medical Faculty, which founded a public institution, which later founded as the "Neuron" Polyclinic under the Law on Institutions, according to its own statutes, all these revenues must finally be the incomes of founders. It's from the medical school these funds have not been seen since the far 90's. So what are we gentlemen talking about here? Yeah, you don't find anything controversial about that. Where did the funds go from the Ministry of Science? So we're talking about the quality of science here. First of all, the Minister of Science presented him here as an anti-corruption law of objectivity, external evaluation and whatnot. Also, it's a very bad message to send. Minister Primorac is a scientist who, while the minister was given the authority of two colleges, while he is a minister. It's unremembered. At the Faculty in Osijek and Split and during that time further improves to a more scientific building. We do not enter into the justification of all this now, but it must not be done during the conduct of such a duty. The Croatian news society which published its announcement not a month ago, it is on certain portals, we did not have the opportunity to see it in a certain daily newspaper, because press pressure is such that it causes serious concern. "The Croatian news society invites the Minister of Science, Education and Sport Dragan Primorac and his close associates to stop immediately with frequent pressures on certain journalists reporting on the activities of this ministry, and to editors, Minister Primorac and his associates systematically discriminate against journalists who do not report on educational and scientific topics as the minister would like and thus not to give them any more information, do not respond to Emil's and phone calls. Many journalists have come to HND for help because of such procedures. In addition, ministry spokesman Duja Bonaci in his reactions to journalistic texts insults individual journalists, and they are being kept in the ministry by unscrupulous journalists. So, according to their attempts, they try to intervene with the editors. Such pressures on journalists and the media have not lasted since yesterday, but on some journalists for years, practically since Dragan Primorac was appointed minister. The HND therefore asks the minister and his associates to no longer try to interfere in the affairs of the editorials, not to share journalists with the lowly and innocuous, and to provide all the necessary information to all journalists." So I've read it completely.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28665	Dear MPs, please the subject is known. So stick to the subject and please talk about the subject, not read any statements that have nothing to do with the subject. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28666	Never mind, never mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28667	Stick to the subject and continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28668	I'll do it, Mr. Vice President, and I'll finish. Therefore, in order to apply this law on quality assurance in science and higher education, it is primarily necessary to create an environment for this to happen. And don't let what I was talking about happen, so knowledge doesn't get sold. That Index affair is far away and perhaps even in wider divisions compromised, even unjustly into the system as a whole. Therefore, such individual cases should also be taken into account in order to avoid this. And it's very much on the subject. That's a zero point, and this is the first topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28669	Thank you. Surely we, too, contribute to our discussions in public opinion on both us and science and on all other institutions in this country, and surely we must contribute to that by our own personal example. Thank you very much. Let's move on. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić. No, I thanked you as politely as it must be. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28670	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll try to follow your instructions so I don't get out of the box you were talking about. So here I am, joining, therefore, my voice along with all those who have so far spoken in favor of this law, in support of this very important material that we are talking about today. In fact, I would begin my presentation with one fact that was not spoken of, however, which is very important for understanding even the matter that we are talking about. So the quality as such first and first began to be monitored in industry and it is actually a borrowed term, a borrowed method that we apply more or less in certain activities, other activities of life, one of them is health care, now we're talking about science, education, etc. Anyway, it's something that actually asks how we work, where we are now, where we want to be. So there is no other method nor better, nor more effective than today, that the system that we have today and with which we've all been shown to be largely satisfied, to improve it, to make it even better, to make it even more quality. Someone mentioned here, actually asked a rhetorical question, what's quality anyway? I think it's also a perfectly regular question, and in fact it might be possible to come to the conclusion that the quality and difference between what we have now and what we expect, in optimal circumstances, or maybe even the extent in which in this case, when we talk about science and higher education, is a teaching process, and in accordance with the generally accepted standards, I don't know what's prescribed in the world and what seems to be. Therefore, as we have recently spoken in this House and about quality in health and quality in higher education and science can also be estimated at three elements. On the element of the structure, that's what we have to deal with. So we're talking about all the universities, all the universities, everything that this country has, and in the service of science and higher education, about the process, that's how many educated people we have in terms of teachers, what their competences are, what they do, how they work with students, and finally, perhaps the most measurable element of quality, that's the outcome. What is the outcome of our universities, what is the outcome of our education system? Here we heard, I'd say a few very high-quality exhibitions. I would single out the presentation of Professor Hebrang, Mr. Kresa Cosic, so Mr. Doric also, who spoke about the measurable outcomes. So they talked about publications, about the importance of publications. There is no more quantifiable way to go than to measure how many universities, how many college teachers, how many teachers of that university, and how many the next day those who came out of that university, so graduates publish what and where and how much weight the publications are. Who once in their life tried to write a scientific paper knows what it is and how difficult it is. The second level by which quality can be measured, and also related to the outcomes themselves are the number of projects. How much money we withdraw, especially from international projects, and to the importance of certain projects as such and how much we are able to produce from these money new goods. There were speeches here as well as both, it's significant, in a significant increase and I think between 25 and 30% is the increase in both publications and the money withdrawn. Therefore, in any case we can think what we want but we cannot say or conclude, especially not to the public anything more than that this ministry led by this minister and at all the Croatian academic community has really achieved one enviable level and one great success. We have to be proud of that. With this Croatia must be proud. And this is one of I'd say evidence of that. Of course, it is very important, and someone also mentioned what happened to the fate of those who graduated from Croatia. I don't know who's following it the way right now, but it's certainly a very important question. So how many of the people in the system remain, so after completed education they stay in Croatia and how many are still going out. Therefore, the next day Croatia in a European environment and together with everything we have talked about will certainly be the space that will be, I believe the magnet for other scientists in Croatia and let alone for the stay of Croatia. So this should be, this material that we're about to adopt needs to be a contribution and I would say an incentive to those who end up staying here and staying working. If I were to look for some small defects in this material then it seems to me that there is a little more detail in the description, more descriptions of internal quality control although it is not essentially the subject of this law. But he is actually left to all universities and in fact to certain entities who will create certain quality monitoring programs within the system itself. In any case, within that part of judgment and quality, the average rating of all students, i.e. each individual and all together, then the length of study, the percentage of those who give up their studies, as well as the student survey as an important element of the teacher's assessment. I think that despite all the measures and standards there is no sharper I would say maybe even a more objective assessment than what students themselves give, to their teachers, to their teachers because it's about young people, educated people, people who live in time, once new time, new technologies and who don't really allow them to surrender to them inappropriate, outdated, I don't know either themes or programs that aren't useful, they themselves know and evaluate how much they really need it. I would certainly use and once again underline the importance of the presentation on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, which was presented here by Prof. Dr. Kreso Ćosic, when he spoke about the importance of involving the economy. When you go out and you actually talk to people who are at external universities, so in the world, and when you talk about how much you finance science then we will see how much the Croatian state finances science from the budget and we will see how much science is funded in the world. Therefore, it is impossible to maintain an industry without science, therefore, without a university etc., nor is it possible to maintain universities without industry, therefore, and without support from the economy in fact, not only industry, but even economy at all. Therefore, this is an opportunity to point out once again, to point out this importance and to actually open these ways of communication between Croatian science, Croatian academic science and Croatian businessmen. Croatian businessmen must know and believe that they know it, however, the time ahead is actually a time that goes in favor of each other, that they cannot do without each other. And that's just the way it is. If it's any different, we'll stagnate. I wouldn't speak here individually about what this law is yet to pass, but in any case, it's an absolute step forward and my personal and as is the support of all of us here. If I may, allow me, Mr. Secretary of State, just a few small ones, I would say cosmetic proposals, or corrections. When it comes to credit, so when it comes to re-creditation, then initial accreditation, I think it might be a little confusing. So, I don't know, but I think it would be logical for it to be one accreditation, if it's re-accreditation, to be re-accredited. So let's say, therefore, we're simply protecting, and if we don't have a better term for, Croatian, for accreditation, let's not add recredit yet, I mean I don't know, I think that would be good. On the other hand, the truth is that there may be a little bit of a disturbance in terms of using different terms, so when you say improvement, improvement, I don't know, some other terms used here, I think it's the best term when it comes to quality, so it's a constant attempt, continuous improvement or quality improvement. Therefore, it may simply be adopted as such. When it comes to the agency, because when we look at the detail of what the Agency's task is, then it is evident that the agency is primarily in charge of quality. So I would really call her a quality agency in science and higher education. She would simply wear that name explicitly and this is, if that's the case, this is borrowed, this would be borrowed from the health care system as such. Here I see that actually my time expires, I thank you once again for preparing one such material and I believe that it is an absolute contribution to the progress of Croatian science in general and society as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28671	Thank you. Several replicas, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28672	At the beginning of your presentation, you spoke about the importance of quality control in the system itself, and I have no objections to what you said, but there is another aspect of the importance of quality control in this area of higher education that has not been said yet and it seems important to me to highlight it. Within the Bologna process itself, quality control and the establishment of quality standards will be one of the conditions for recognition of diplomas. And what was a good part of it now was a grudge in the Croatian conduct of the Bologna Process that I did it in some way and simplify, which was actually not even our agency being a member of the High Educational Quality Insurance Association nor of these other European networks, and they were placing themselves very justified to wonder whether then our diplomas which are like Bologna, and actually not because of the lack of this moment of quality, would be legible and be recognized as such in terms of the qualifications achieved in a unique way to say so to the European labour market. And it's one of the more important moments and the importance of saying so myself setting up a quality system. Because the quality improvement system, quality management is not only being set up for us to say that we have, but also in some way for students who are the system itself, guarantees in some way that what they are learning, that what they are doing on that qualification they are gaining is not only in content, but also in a methodical and qualitative sense equal to those Europeans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28673	Replication response. Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28674	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I agree with you and here in this material explicate it stands. So one of the elements so if you look at this material in detail, then what you've said is clearly written that one of the tasks of the agency, or this quality system, is how to actually coordinate here our achieved diplomas and competences with those in Europe to be actually compatible. It's explicit written. Take another look, you'll see it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28675	Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28676	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. So here's a very brief comment from Dr. Bagaric's very useful discussion. I would comment briefly on his observed quality, quality Semantics, quality importance and analogy between quality in industry and quality in science, and I think it deserves a certain important distinction. The systematic quality thinking was most pronounced, as Dr. Bagarić said, in the industry called "total quality management", meaning a whole series of organised efforts in organisational, technological, technical and other respects to ensure that the industry has a high repetitive quality of the product. This "total quality management" has been developed just as a series of organised efforts in the automotive industry, Crysler, Toyotas, etc. At the same time, I want to highlight the similarity, but also the diversity when we talk about quality in science. What is quality in industry, repetition, high standard, high reliability is not exactly a characteristic of quality in science. Because the quality of science is exclusively and the only ability to create new knowledge, to create new knowledge, and nowhere so clearly points out that need for the well-known term "added values", created new value, is the main characteristic of precisely scientific action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28677	And Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28678	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's everybody in the replicas talking about quality, so I'll talk about it. Mr. Bagaric, you spoke of quality and here in the text of the law it is said that the adoption of this law will allow the planned improvement of the process of development of study programmes, the establishment of higher schools and scientific organisations by improving quality. You also mentioned the characteristics of quality, or how it is measured, by structure, by processes and by outcomes. You mentioned the outcome that this is measurable through scientific papers, publications, etc. However, I would say here that it is very important for quality, yet internal control that is not mentioned here. Also, the student word, since unfortunately we are witnessing today that precisely because of the unpreparedness of the Bologna Process in individual studies, at some universities students who are known for their excellence precisely because of their unquality or unpreparedness at the Bologna Process remain disappointed. And that's exactly why this unpreparedness is certain to reduce the quality of the study. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28679	Thank you. Replica reply, Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28680	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry you didn't notice me, because I picked up a tile and a colleague of Kreshi's. However, very briefly, I agree with my colleague Kresa Cosic...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28681	You didn't, but you raised your hand, not the tile. That's not for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28682	Excuse me. Here's a very brief colleague of Bonačić's. So, I agree with you in that part, but when you talked about the students' unpreparedness, I think it's not about students' unpreparedness, it's about the professor's case. But when it comes to this internal surveillance you were talking about and when you said it was actually left out, it wasn't left out. When you look at Chapter 3 in the insurance and quality improvements system, then you will see on page 13, that point 5 and 6 is dedicated to internal surveillance, but it is not explicit here processed and elaborated, but it is actually left to the university as such that, in fact, by developing its own programs and projects in that part, and in accordance with this law, it actually achieves one wholeness and totality of quality. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28683	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28684	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry the minister had to leave. He failed to hear and listen to any individual exposure. I know the minister knows a lot about this area, but no one would mind if he'd heard a few suggestions, if he'd heard some criticism. In his address before he left, he spoke of many presenting information in the context of some election campaigns. I'm sorry that he said that, because none of us here today spoke in the context of any election campaign, but in a desire to come to a solution that in one objective way is worth scientific projects, that based on objective evaluations then they are financed, that they are given adequate equipment, scientific money and everything else. What I would like to underline here, and I hope Mr. Secretary of State will pass it on to Mr. Secretary. I'm just gonna wait for the secretary of state to hear me, at least he can hear me. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State, just to ask you to pass on the following. So, I wasn't criticizing the reviewers, and I didn't think of that in the end. But someone also has to give the reviewers instructions within which framework they need to move, because that you yourself have made only within one area, my field of biomedicine, one combination, how much each project gets, and in fact what the effects so far are, the scientific effects of those involved. You will sometimes see very modest results, and relatively large means. It can't be. On the other hand, there are people who have worked well, published a lot, done a lot, left a deep mark in Croatian science, and were very modestly financed during this project period. That's not good. I repeat, this is reflected in many other segments later. What I'm allowing is that it's not just the number of papers, quotes, magazines of their... The only criterion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But then you have to tell us what the supplemental criterion is. Because let's say when I worked in France as a young scientist French Minister of Science then said during this period while I was the minister of the French economy to solve the question of conductors for the electrical engineering industry of France, genetic engineering for our pharmaceutical industry and to retrace the signal through... fibres for the needs of information and communication technologies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was clear exactly what the minister needed and the French economy needed. And in those few years, those who worked on these projects got two, three, four times more funding because France cared about getting rid of it quickly and in quality. And you have the right to say it, so I have no right to object. If it is more important to solve something in agriculture for the purposes of Croatian tourism and that you will finance these projects two or three times stronger than the projects in biomedicine you have to tell me I will agree and I will not have a word against it. But like this, in one area, we have so much charmed one approach, it's not possible. As far as the Central Reception Office is concerned, I wanted to ask the minister, now I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary of State. How many people in that office are going to get a job? We haven't heard anything about it. What will be their profile? I'm based on what's written here, I'm sorry, and how much it's going to cost. Because you have seen how strangely it is that the amounts that are sought for certain segments of the work they are going to do. Can you tell us how much that office will cost? What it says about the description of people's jobs in that Central Reception Office is processing data from national high school graduations and preparing for university enrollment. That looks like twice a month of work to me. A month after graduation state and a month before enrolment. That's almost what it looks like. You have to tell us if it's going to be people received for a certain time twice a month or if it's going to be people who are going to do something besides that. Furthermore, there was just before the talk about that triangle that I keep mentioning. In one kind of economy, the other is politics, the third is clearly high schooling. Politics must influence, I fully agree with the minister. We cannot and must not finance profiles that are not needed by the Croatian state and society. People can finish whatever they want, but they have to pay for it themselves. It can't go from the state budget. We can't educate people for work desks. That's ridiculous. So I'm curious how often the minister meets people from the economy? How is the registration policy being agreed? How are amendments and additions to the programme on the needs of the Croatian economy agreed? I'm curious about whether the other ministers regularly report to the Minister of Education in the next 10, 15 years, so many doctors, so many judges, so many teachers, so many cops. Whether the registration policy is based on these figures that I think the Minister of Education should collect from his colleagues in the government and then clearly from the segment of the economy. The same goes for science projects. It should primarily be financed, and better financed by what Croatia needs, its economy. I set an example just before a French. Here in the end you'll just let me read, I wanted to remind the minister of one of his statements from 7, 8 months ago when he said that thanks to the opening of a number of new universities, universities and new high schools in their composition, there was an increase in the number of students. He particularly pointed out that thanks to this policy today Croatia has 15% of citizens who have higher, higher school than 8% of 10 or 12 years ago, which is a normal increase. If so, I wanted to ask Mr. Minister, how is it that this huge increase in the number of educated people has no effect on innovation, creativity, productivity, competitiveness, exports and the standard of our citizens. Could it be a completely wrong educational structure or a lack in the education system or one another? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28685	Thank you. Final Review State Secretary Draž Vikic Topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28686	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Madam Representatives and the Gentlemen Representatives. First of all, I would like to thank you for your truly respected representatives and MPs on a very constructive discussion, remarks, suggestions. I wrote down how far I got. My colleagues used to do the same thing, colleagues of the lawyers they were. It will really improve the quality of this law. And I think it's great to go in two readings, have time to improve it. I say, once again, I thank you most. But I'd just like to mention a few things. In fact, there were so many of these things that it's impossible to mention now. We'll have more time to talk about it. I just want to say what's the key when it's mentioned why it's not internal control, accreditation. So exactly the request of European accreditation associations was to pass the law, because why? So far, the agency has been established by a regulation, which was fine. And now it rises to the higher level of this respected body, the law is established, it becomes more independent. She's been independent before, but in the eyes of maybe Europe isn't enough. It is now becoming truly more independent and will essentially be when it is established to go to become a member of all these accreditation agencies. That was actually a condition. That's why we're doing it, isn't it? As the esteemed representative Mr. Bagarić said, of course, the elements of internal quality control are inside. But it's just that our laws that we've had so far in science have all been a little bit too normative, too regulated. We are now trying to give the frameworks, of course, if, when this respectable body supports it, and then rules, sublegal acts, to work things out. It's, there's control. And now there was control in these agencies, but it was on one to say the basis of the desires themselves. We called... They came from abroad and helped us, and now it will be, now it will not be our wish. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They'll be able to come whenever they want if we're members of that association. As for this funding of science and higher education from the budget and from the state, it means money, from the economy. To thank me for this discussion, it's very useful. Well, that's what we've been doing all along and we're asking for further help from this tall body. In fact, at this point in time, I have data for 2007 that are still not definitive, official, 0.55% of the GDP came from the budget, and 0.39 from the economy. And actually that bologna should be 0, let's say, 3 from the budget. So we have twice as much from the budget now, and 0.6 or a little more from the economy, right? Because the last result it's growing, now it's 0.94, for 2008, we have a projection of 1.1. Here, so we need to work on that. Of course, the state still needs to increase continuously, but I think there are businessmen, there are great companies with us who understand the importance... But I don't think it's in most other firms yet, maybe even the smaller ones haven't gotten into it yet, haven't received that atmosphere yet how important this research is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as patents are concerned, it's been made a great, distinguished representative to Mr. Doric, I would say, big progress has been made. But I'm just gonna get to the Ruger, 'cause I come from there, I've been working for 30 years. I know the data when I left. In 2005, there were only three applications. Then we started the Innovation Ruger, and there was a World Bank loan. According to last week's latest information, over 80 applications. And I think that's how the other segments of society follow, I don't know the numbers. So, still, a lot of things have been getting a lot better lately, have they? And even when you asked me, it's been a very interesting study since last year for these... Today, in fact, already in the European Community, but also wider in the world, they do not want to speak that way at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They say brain-tightening, that it has to be constantly highly educated, just what's interesting. The first country by that is Malta, slightly more than 30% of highly educated go around. The other country is Ireland, which has me personally astounded. So, one big country of high standard, good science, 28%, Macedonia 28, Bosnia and Herzegovina 24, and we 23. It's obviously a trend in the world. What I think is very important to all of us, as many of these people draw back, is that it? And we are now developing this whole system, of course, that then this law is also a very important law that will actually bring people back and attract them because they will be safer when they apply projects to be bigger, let's say more critical reviews, more objectively, etc. But here, in order not to praise us alone now, I thank the Ministry once again best for all the suggestions and remarks and criticisms that have been useful, constructive, and the Ministry and the Government will, of course, consider and take into account all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28687	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28688	We move to the proposal for a law on quality assurance in science and higher education, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 277. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "First, the proposal for a law on quality assurance in science and higher education is accepted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The conclusion was accepted by most votes, 99 votes for, 3 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28689	Moving to next point six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, first reading, P.Z. No. 276 The Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law and Education, Science and Culture. State Secretary Drazen Vicic Topic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28690	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be relatively brief. According to the current Law on the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, the members of the Academy are regular, honorable, correspondence and there are members of the Academy, they are members of the co-workers. The conditions for regular, honorable and correspondence members of the Academy are prescribed by law in question. However, unlike regular honorary letter members, the conditions for members of the co-workers, I stress the members, because this is quite important, was a very interesting debate on committees, so members of the co-workers, they were prescribed by the Statute of the Academy. Namely, the main driver of these amendments and the supplement was actually justified from our point of view, that the presidentship of the academy noticed that they should all be equalised that they all had to come into the law, so the members of the co-workers and the elections for their titles, for their position, because so far it was for these first regular, honorable, correspondence was defined in the law, and for these others, because they were not second-rows, they were equally valuable. For these, it was in the statute of course. And now it's all about being united, doing everything in the law, and that's why the proposal came. You know that the academy has a numberus Klaus, that there are about 100 of these associates, can be 100 at most, and all of these other regular, correspondence, honorary ones are 160. So it was also one of the reasons why one flexibility should be made, and in doing so, in these demands that came from the academy, we also saw that all the mandates that, that now the presidency of the Academy is 3 years, and all the mandates that have ever been four years, and even in most of the other academics in the world, actually in all the academics, are not in most terms four years. Namely, what's going on. Since you have elections means for members of your co-workers, the choice of promotion to regular members. Practically every 2 years you have elections inside, so within 3 years you already have elections and six months are spent, so actually all the time you kill yourself a lot, I won't say waste of time because it's not a waste of time, but spends time on various choices. We consider this term of four years more logical and that is the ministry's proposal to extend the mandate to four years. Here, these are two key points. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28691	Thank you. Legislative committees? For education, science and culture? The chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28692	... Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] I will be very brief because Mr. Secretary of State has already presented a very simple scheme of this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Academy of Science and Art which was found before the Committee. The opening argument was clearly submitted by the proposing representatives and the debate, as you have already heard, was actually leading around two topics. One topic was the status issue of members of the Academy's co-workers, and the second topic was the duration of the Academy's administration's mandate. As for the first subject of the members of the co-workers, a proposal has been made which has also been accepted for the members of the co-workers to also enter the Academy Act, so far they have only been defined by the statutes. The second, in fact, change that may have been needed and that was followed by quite an interesting debate was the suggestion that members of the co-workers were selected for life as members, permanent members of the academy, regular members of the academy, honorary and external, and there was actually a question that had been raised, because so far these members have been elected for 10 years, within 10 years. Clearly, the promoters highlighted one problem, which is that it is known to happen that very prominent members of the Academy after one, another re-election that did not for any reason become regular members of the Academy, are simply dimming that once again and already when they acquired the highest scientific calling in their profession to compete again and then they simply fall out of the membership of the Academy. There was, however, the proposal, which contained one sentence which, I think, was also kind of disrupted by the Committee on Law, says that young members, young members of the co-workers. This would mean that a young member of an associate who is 30 years old and I don't know how many years he's elected as a member of this proposal automatically is there for life, even if he didn't advance as clearly as expected. And now there's actually two proposals that have been crystallized. One proposal would be to limit the number of re-elections to two, meaning twice 10 years and after that the second re-election of 10 years as a co-worker regardless of whether he became a regular member, it became clear that he remains a co-worker either for life or until he is elected as a regular member. Another idea was also to go on this lifelong membership, but then it really raises the question of whether it gives someone status too early and the chance to be assured for life even if they did not advance as expected. It seems to me that the committee still overcame this settlement at two times ten years old and that probably when the final draft of the law comes, that solution will probably be accepted. There may also be some new possibilities, new variations, clearly one debate should not be closed. As regards this second part of the proposal, i.e. The proposal to extend the term of office from 3 to 4 years here I think it was more or less full consent because that term of 4 years also corresponds to cycles, re-election cycles in the academy, which every 2 years, means those steam cycles and that odd cycle of 3 years was one exception. I don't know what time it was introduced, when they were once the same for four years, and it clearly feels that there should be no problem with that proposal being accepted. The Committee therefore concludes that it proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and to make it clear that all positions, proposals and opinions regarding the proposal are directed to the Proposer to prepare the final version of the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28693	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Club of representatives of the CNS Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28694	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here I am a member of the board, Professor Selem has expressed some of our common views, but there have been a few different thoughts. I'd like to mention at least some of them here in front of the HNS. The intensity of the existing Law on the Croatian Academy and the existing Law on Science and Higher Education is which? That we members of the academic community find ourselves constantly under pressure to evaluate us, evaluate our work, that between the two re-elections we must have some significant contribution to science, to the educational system that we can move to more scientific or teaching calling at the university. At the university is this cycle every 4 years, we see in the Croatian Academy of Associates it was after 10 years. But again, colleagues at the Croatian Academy and at the university had to present all the data regarding their work in order to get the green light to move on. At university you know that here's my generation first we had to master in order to become assistants, so we had to doctor in order to become senior assistants, so we still worked and published in order to become professors. Well, then it's just an extraordinary professor, then a regular professor, then a regular teacher in a permanent calling. So 600 steps. It was only then that I was left alone to no longer write the report, then I had the right to clearly have one permanent status. We clearly have a suggestion here that it is no longer done in the academy but that after someone is elected as a member of the team, it will be so for life. You heard the course of the debate, you heard that after two re-elections, most colleagues were considered to be a permanent member of the HAZU. I must say that I was also an option because I want to convince you that there are brilliant young people in Croatia who meet the conditions of scientific advice very early, so the most scientific calling. And I don't think there's any reason why we can take cases like this right away as far as I'm concerned, because they've already come to the very top of their scientific career. But I'll accept it, and here's our club agrees that they'll come in anyway, become members of the team. Whether they will be after one or two election rounds there permanently it may be less important but we must not allow, by amending and supplementing the law, to eliminate young people, brilliant young people from being able to run and to enter as members of Croatian Academy associates. As for this second question, whether to extend the term from 3 to 4 years of presidency, I will read only this sentence to you, it was probably in agreement between the ministry and the academy made up this text. In the current term of office of 3 years, it is too short a time to achieve more important programmes and projects in the academy, especially because much of the time is burdened by the conduct of the procedure, the election of new members that lasts at least six months and is carried out every second year. My colleagues and colleagues, I think that programs and projects should be distinguished scientifically from the administrative work of leading the academy. It's not three years, it's six years, twice three. I am even deeply convinced that no colleagues in the academic community and in Croatia academic science and art over 60 years old should at all lead a project or a science programme that must be younger people and people of my generation and older must be advisors on these projects and on these programs, counselors. I'm deeply convinced of that. In many countries, there is even a time limit of life when you go from one status to another. It's more important for the system to function. That's why we at the HNS Club aren't too prone to increase it from 3 plus 3 to 4 plus 4. We can see that even retrogradely it is required that the Parliament's decision applies to those who are now sitting in those chairs. It smells like something else to us, and for that part, I have to admit, we're not gonna give the green light. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28695	Thank you. Mr. Andrija Hebrang's club of representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28696	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, the predecessors have said most of the things that need to be said about this problem, I'm going to be very brief. The first problem, therefore, is that in the amended law, the problem of Croatian Academy of Science and Art co-workers in a more pure manner regulates there to be no double interpretations, because these co-workers are now defined in one way by law in their mandate, where the special statement is defined as a special group of members and statues of the Academy. And surely this is a quality step and I agree that their status should be resolved in law. How to solve it is definitely a question that Professor Selem, the chairman of the parent committee here, said. We can still discuss this and discuss it. Perhaps the criteria could also be to change the rules of choice, perhaps the criteria could also be to reduce the number of renewed mandates, but also to take into account such a lifetime choice, but probably then with some monitoring of the development of such a young associate. So, I support this proposal, but I also agree with the possibility of discussing it until the second reading. I think we should take a good look at what's for and what's against. But as far as the presidency's mandate is concerned, I absolutely support this proposal. So the chairmanship of the academy, which makes up the president, the two vice presidents, the secretary general, the secretary of all the academy classes and the five members elected in the assembly, can actually, in three years of office, do a little work, not a little work, but end it. Projects are usually multi-annual and a four-year term is common in the academic community. I see no reason for this mandate to be reduced to three years. It was done by law to me in '91. And it turned out to be too short a term of office. So we absolutely support an extension to four mandates, it's common in other institutions and institutions, I don't see the academy presidency being cut off from all other positions in our scientific system. We therefore support the proposal by agreeing that the proposal made by the parent board should be further discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28697	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28698	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I would also very briefly on the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. Since a technical problem has arisen over the election of co-workers. Since the law has defined and prescribed conditions for members of the Academy of Regular, Honorary and Letterary, these members of the co-workers are currently prescribed by the Statute of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. Article 23 of the Statute provides that young scientists or artists, a citizen of the Republic of Croatia whose achievements in the field of scientific or artistic activities are generally known and who will cooperate in a particular field and activities of the Academy, are to be elected to the members of the selectees. There has also been a technical problem with the presidency's mandate and I certainly support the change from three years of the presidency's term to four years, but I also think that, in accordance with the opinion of the board and the opinion that the committee president has expressed here, that, for the members of the co-workers, not automatically, the law does not prescribe a lifetime choice but that it goes twice 10 years later, that I support such thinking. At the same time, I would take advantage of the occasion and say a few words about the history of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts dating back to 1861 when the initiative was launched and only after five years while the initiative was almost in the drawer when the Emperor and King Francis Joseph had mercy, then it was only 1866 and it was launched and the rules on the establishment of the then academy were approved. Today, there was the first president to be Dr. Franjo Rački and there were 16 members, and today only regular members have 160. And it is good that the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts is developing, it is good that there are more members. But I would draw attention to the fact that the public and perception in the Croatian public is, that the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts should be seen as an exceptional authority, as one of the highest scientific and cultural institutions and as one of the places of character of science and profession. And in fact, by observing the main objectives of the academy, given the support that the state, i.e. the Republic of Croatia, gives to the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts by investing in science and also materially helping and financing from the state budget of the Academy of 72 million kunas annually, it helps it achieve its objectives. And it certainly has the potential to achieve these goals. But it seems to me that the Croatian Academy of Science and Art could have done more and that more is actually expected of it. And I personally expect a lot more from her. I think it's also become a little bit and overworked with relationships that don't belong to such a highly scientific institution, both scientific and cultural, of course. We are witnessing a public dispute over membership in the academy, we have witnessed and shared on the requirement by the HAZ that President Mesic honours Celestin Sabdelic and Draga Domitovic. We witnessed and shared about when the academy accused Prosper Novak of selling out Grgen's heritage. She was obviously a member of the academy when the president of the Republic of Croatia announced that he would give a speech at the academy. We are also witnessing public press releases from academics Adolf Dragicevic, including academician Marusic. We were witnessing that academics were saying that certain members of the Academy of Science and Arts were insulting and scolding them, and the answer was that it was a threat and that police would be called. All this suggests that in Croatia the Academy of Science and Art also has a sign of an atmosphere that may make it impossible for the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts to achieve the full goals set in its Statute. It would also certainly be more acceptable for the level of communication and tolerance if it were not for this kind of individual opposition in the public and dissonant tones coming from the academy. The Croatian public is increasingly hearing the voice of the Academy of Science, and the Croatian public is increasingly hearing a voice that will create a better future. And a member of the academy said that perhaps the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts is not responsible for the past, he said that he may not be responsible for the present of Croatia, but that they are certainly co-responsible for Croatia's future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28699	Thank you. Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28700	Dear Mr. Vice President, I think it's more or less said, perhaps more than necessary. Only a few sentences, the continuity of the work of each institution, each organisation is particularly important in achieving the programme objectives outlined, and so is the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. For these reasons, I think it was perfectly natural and it is acceptable to replace the four-year term of office of members of the Academy's presidency with the term of office so far compared to three years. I also think it was acceptable to strengthen the status of co-workers. In the end, I'd say maybe very soon next. Media monitoring of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts is inadmissible and it seems to me that the damages are multiple, not only for the Academy but for society as a whole, unfortunately this is our reality. However, it should be pointed out that there are many important activities and debates and stands in the academy today, as well as round tables that are very current and deserve wider media attention and attention from Croatian citizens. And with that, I'll just say the following. 27 March at the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts Palace from 9.30 to 11:30, the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, the Scientific Council for Oil and NATO's Parliamentary Assembly, the Subcommittee on Trans-Atlantic Relations, the Croatian Parliament, the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, organise a very important and very current round table on which there will be almost 20 NATO parliamentarians and experts and experts in the field of energy security. The theme of the round table "The Energy Security of Southeast Europe". Certainly this example confirms that the attention of Croatian media and the Croatian public regarding many activities, the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts deserves a little more effort than it is today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28701	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing at 3:00 with point seven, then nine and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28702	We move to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, first reading, P.Z. No. 276. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "First, the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts is adopted. Secondly, all comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This conclusion was reached by most votes, 88 votes for, 13 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28703	My colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you very much. I suggest we continue after the afternoon session of the Parliament. We're starting with the seventh item of the agenda. That's seven. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on cooperation in the fight against cross-border crime, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 281 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We received the proposal by mail. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was held: the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. We also received a report from the board's session. The proposer's representative is here. Ivica Buconjic, state secretary at the interior ministry, wants to take the floor. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28704	Thank you very much. Here's a quick one. I'd say this is a law confirming a very important agreement. In fact, the Republic of Croatia has very intensive and good cooperation within international institutions such as Europol and Interpol. However, this agreement establishes a high-quality bilateral cooperation between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia and the police of Hungary. So far, Croatia has very good and quality co-operation with the Ministry of Interior of Hungary, which has also been confirmed in recent years by the arrival of Hungarian police officers during the tourist season in the Republic of Croatia just to help us treat Hungarian citizens who are staying in Croatia as foreign tourists and this cooperation has proved extremely good and extremely high quality and has also been welcomed by Hungarian citizens who live as tourists in the Republic of Croatia during the tourist season. This agreement further and significantly does not improve this good and quality co-operation. It will establish a legal framework and build on the fact that the co-operation is much more complex and that the police of Croatia and Hungary are co-operating in a joint action against all forms of crime. I would say that crime knows neither the national borders nor this agreement that will be confirmed by this law will certainly contribute to the fact that neither between the police of the two countries there are limits and certainly the limits will no longer be the reason for the difficult or inefficient conduct of the police, but rather the police of both states will be given the possibility of the most effective, quickest and most effective treatment in countering all forms of crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28705	Thank you very much. Would the Committee's rapporteurs like to take part in the debate? No, I don't. Then we move on to a debate on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished counterpart Berislav Roncevic. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28706	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Allow a few words about the bill's proposal. International police cooperation is one of the most complex areas of European legal gain in favour of what it says and the fact that part of the European acquis that regulates this area is in the first and the good part in the third pillar of the European acquis. It is also one of the most dynamic areas of the European Union, its legal gains, which is also witnessed by the number of acts adopted in this area. In order to strengthen international police cooperation, the Republic of Croatia has 27 concluded agreements on co-operation in the fight against international trafficking in drugs and psychotropic substances, international terrorism and organised crime. The agreements are concluded with all neighbouring countries and with most of the countries in the region. Based on the concluded agreements as well as through cooperation through the International Organisation of Criminal Police, Interpol police in the Republic of Croatia are performing intensive operational cooperation with the countries of the region, especially with neighbouring countries, as well as with several member states of the European Union. The procedure includes the conclusion of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Italian Republic on cross-border police cooperation, while agreements on police cooperation with the French Republic and the Republic of Austria were signed in November 2007. In addition, an initiative has been launched to conclude a cross-border police co-operation agreement with Serbia-Montenegro, which will allow the Republic of Croatia to have signed agreements on cross-border police co-operation with all neighbouring countries. In order to promote and deepen cooperation in the fight against cross-border crime, the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on cooperation in the fight against cross-border crime has been signed in Hevis, Hungary. The conclusion of this Agreement is a contribution from the Republic of Croatia on the road to joining the European Union, given the fact that in this process, one of the priorities and the conclusion of an agreement on cross-border police cooperation with neighbouring countries is both members of the European Union and third countries. The signing of such an agreement, in addition to the already indicated cooperation in the fight against cross-border crime, opened the possibility of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the quadrilate centre for the exchange of information “Long you” where Croatian police officers, together with police officers of the member states of the European Union, or the countries of Austria, Hungary and Slovenia, will participate in the operational, daily exchange of data relating to police treatment. Quality data exchange, quick data exchange is one of the most effective measures in the fight against crime prevention and other socially permitted behaviour. Confirmation of this Agreement will create all legal assumptions for a co-ordinated common approach to the protection of the state border with a view to more effective action by means of harmonised measures and plans against cross-border and international organised crime, while at the same time strengthening bilateral relations between the two countries in this area. This Agreement regulates issues primarily related to strengthening cooperation in order to combat crime for which, in accordance with national laws and regulations, both Contracting Parties are prescribed prison sentences of at least one year and cooperation and protection of public order in border areas. Through the exchange of information either on request, either directly between police authorities through emergency handling, access to information without request, joint analysis of public security, assistance in search of cases and persons, cross-border surveillance and cross-border pursuit, supervised delivery, the use of undercover investigators, cooperation in witness protection programmes, the establishment of joint teams for criminal reconnaissance, secret collection of data, joint border patrols, co-operation on joint contact services, the sending of liaison officers and cooperation in the field of education of training and crime prevention. The above can be seen that the co-operation between the two police is planned in 3 degrees according to the agreement. The phase until Croatia enters the European Union, the second phase during membership in the European Union and the third phase after Croatia's accession to the Schengen area. This agreement certainly constitutes a good starting framework for further strengthening the cooperation of the two countries' competent authorities in the field of cooperation in the fight against all forms of cross-border crime. Finally, it can be noted that the signed agreement is another one of the achievements of the Croatian police that public services, which will be more effective in the fight against all forms of cross-border crime through one proactive approach, through instruments of international co-operation and one legal framework. In addition to the effectiveness of combating cross-border crime, the data show that a major drop in illegal migration has been recorded in the last nine years, where 24 180 persons were recorded in 2000 in the illegal crossing of the state border of the Republic of Croatia, while in 2008, 2,366 persons were recorded. As the act of illegal crossover of the state border is a criminal offense, it is, in principle, bound by other forms of criminal conduct and crime, and this statistical data alone is said to have made significant progress in this area. The Croatian Democratic Community Club believes that this agreement with neighbouring and friendly Hungary in this area will further improve co-operation, provide a strong legal framework and will therefore support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28707	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished colleague Stanko Grcic. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28708	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretaries, ministers and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. Promoting and deepening cooperation in the fight against cross-border crime and protecting the public order are interests but also the need of the Republic of Croatia. The signing and adoption of the agreement shall regulate cooperation issues and create conditions for the cooperation of competent authorities, their coordinated and joint action. The agreement allows the adoption of measures and procedures that we plan and believe effectively contribute to the fight against organised international crime and strengthen good neighbourly relations between the two countries of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Hungary. The Agreement and its provisions become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia and create a legal framework for co-operation, which makes it largely a positive step in the area of security. Through foreign and security policy, Croatia recognises an important role in further strengthening, i.e. improving common security and mutual trust with the country in the neighbourhood, which is among other things NATO members and the European Union. Following this, we hope, and we believe that this will facilitate the work of our competent authorities with partners from the Republic of Hungary, in particular on issues related to the exchange of information, search measures, cross-border reconnaissance and search, co-operation in witness protection programmes, joint patrols along the state border, cooperation in the field of education, improvement and prevention of crime, as well as data protection and a number of other activities at the common state border. The proposed agreement provides a good basis for strengthening the cooperation of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Hungary, and thus the competent authorities of the two countries in the fight against cross-border crime. The Croatian Peasant Party therefore supports the proposed text of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on cooperation in the fight against cross-border crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28709	Thank you very much. We're finishing the club debate. We're moving on to individual. Honorable colleague Tomislav Culjak has applied. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28710	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Obviously, this bill will receive support in the Croatian Parliament from all clubs and all MPs, but I would nevertheless like to give a brief look at this proposal for a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on cooperation in the fight against cross-border crime. And this bill and, in fact, the proposal for an agreement is one in a series of signed agreements aimed at strengthening international police cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the countries in our environment. As for cross-border police co-operation, contracts have been signed with all neighbouring countries except Serbia-Montenegro, but an initiative has been launched to conclude such a contract with the two neighbouring countries. The main objectives of this agreement are to deepen cooperation in the fight against cross-border crime, protect public order in the border area and combat international crime. The signing and implementation of this Agreement will certainly and will further strengthen bilateral relations between the two countries. The Agreement regulates information exchange issues, search measures, cross-border reconnaissance and search, cooperation in the programme of protection, border management and data protection. Confirmation of that agreement is of interest to both the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Hungary and is a contribution to the fight against crime, regardless of which countries criminals come from. Criminals and crime do not know the borders, so accepting and implementing this agreement will allow both countries' police to be even more effective and effective in fighting all forms of crime. For all the above, I support the vote of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28711	Thank you very much. There are no further applications. The Secretary of State considers that there is no need for a final address. That's why I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28712	We are moving on to the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on cooperation in the fight against cross-border crime. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 281. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on cooperation in the fight against cross-border crime. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was passed by a majority of votes, 99 votes for and 1 abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28713	Nine. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Cultural Councils, first reading, P.Z. No. 278 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the laws of Article 144 to Article 150 shall apply. We got the materials in the mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, and the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. We've also received reports from the board. Representative for the Proposer Mr. Culture Minister Bozo Biskupic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28714	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. It is, in fact, the proposal for a law amending the Law on Cultural Councils that will go into two readings, even though it is about technical changes but we have been a little bit more diligent, so it came before these others in order and therefore we will have to consider it once again, of course. It's about the Law on Cultural Councils. The Ministry of Culture has established a cultural council for certain fields of artistic and cultural creation to propose a minister of culture for the objectives of cultural policy and measures for its implementation. The Ministry established councils for music and musical stage art, drama art, film and cinematography, book and publishing, art and new medical culture and international cultural cooperation and European integration. However, as the law was passed in 2004. In 2007, the Law on Audio-visual Activities was adopted, a new Croatian Audio-visual Centre was established, which was also taken over by the Ministry of Culture on the basis of Article 43. In Article 44... It is stated that the above day ceases the work of the Cultural Council for Film and Cinema, which was established by the Cultural Council Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Secondly, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government norms that in changes or words, changes in the words of the unit headship of local or regional (regional) self-government are replaced by the words "municipal chief, mayor or mayor". The same applies to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the City of Zagreb where Article 6 is amended. The Law on the City of Zagreb in a way that determines that the mayor of the City of Zagreb is the executive body of the City of Zagreb. These amendments abolish the municipal, urban and county headship of the executive bodies of the municipality, the city and the county, or the City of Zagreb. In that respect, Article 8(2) should also be harmonised. The law on cultural councils. This does not require any funding in either the state budget or other budgets. Therefore, I ask that this law be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28715	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then let's get to the debate. On behalf of the HNS club, colleague Miljenko Doric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28716	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Very short. I reported in front of the club not to say anything against this amendment and the addition of the law, although we support it, it's a logical sequence. However, we wanted to take the opportunity of Mr. Minister when you were here with us today to ask you for something. In fact, we were very excited in 2004 when this law came into force. We were especially looking forward to it because thanks to this law it was now possible to include a number of cultural workers in the ministry's work that they together with you create a cultural policy in Croatia and care for the implementation of this cultural policy. We were especially looking forward to the possibility now that the cultural councils were formed in the counties and cities. And what I would particularly like to underline is this article of the 7th Law in the work of the National Council for Culture at the invitation of the Minister of Culture can be attended by the presidents of the cultural councils of counties and cities. That at least made something of great value possible for us. It is one vertical communication of all cultural workers to coordinate certain political moves, measures and policies. What interests us living at sea in tourist areas is particularly important, and therefore my colleagues asked me to address you with the next. We are particularly interested in whether you already have in your tasks, in your goals and one I would say vertical coordination and communication on cultural tourism because in summer months many smaller places also need help with the content of the offer. It's not just objects, it's exhibitions, it's clear if we want to get to work until we need to coordinate, recommend, agree. Therefore, we really ask that at least some thematic session of the Cultural Council be organised in the field of cultural tourism. And the other one is souvenirs. Souvenirs know that the pains of Croatian tourism have been for many years and in many of our museums there are beautiful objects found at certain sites. I will mention the site of the Foreigner in Vinodol 10th century old Croatian jewelry closed in one museum instead of making castings, instead of offering tourists who visit us original Croatian souvenir quality, beautiful. Everything can be made and accomplished with it. Unfortunately, lack of cooperation, help. I even feel like sometimes there aren't enough ideas in some places. So please, I've already talked to you about this once. Please, here are the cultural councils used both in this and in order to help a little tourism and tourism offer in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28717	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28718	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club has considered the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Cultural Councils and I would like to say immediately that it supports these amendments. As the minister has already said, it's a matter of harmony. Namely, there is one in a series of laws that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has sent to the Croatian Assembly for discussion and adoption, which must be brought into line with the Law amending and supplementing the Law on local and regional, or regional self-government with the amendments made in 2007 and 2008 whose Article 3 provides that the words of the Headship and Units of Local and Regional Self-Government are replaced by the words of the municipal chief, mayor, or mayor. Likewise with the amendments to the laws, i.e. the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the City of Zagreb 2008, which states in Article 6 that the mayor of Zagreb is the executive body of the City of Zagreb. In other words, in all the laws in which the provisions of certain articles refer to the work and powers of municipal, urban and county heads, as well as the City of Zagreb's city headships, which are abolished by those amendments to the laws. The coordination needs to be carried out. Both in the Law amending the Law on Cultural Councils, amendments containing only three short articles. Article 2 lays down the obligations of the municipal chief, mayor, mayor of the City of Zagreb and the mayor to ensure the performance of professional, administrative and technical and other tasks for the needs of the councils referred to in Article 6 as well as the resources necessary for their work. Article 1 of these amendments of the Law on Cultural Councils shall implement the harmonisation of this law with the provisions of the Law on Audiovisual Activities adopted by the Croatian Parliament at the meeting held on 6 July 2007, and Article 44(3) of the Law on Audiovisual Activities found that it ceases with effect from 1 January 2008 the Cultural Council for Film and Cinematography established by the Ministry of Culture, on the basis of the Law on Cultural Councils. Clearly, this Law on Audiovisual Activities was established by the Croatian Audiovisual Centre, which took over the tasks and tasks carried out by the Ministry of Culture in the field of audiovisual activities. The third article in this proposal amending the Law on Cultural Councils also refers to the entry into force, i.e. the application of the provisions of this Act, which states that it enters into force on 18 May 2009 and in its reasoning that it is in conformity with the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Units of Local, Regional, or Regional Self-Government. Since I know that it is in the parliamentary procedure that the amendments to this provision are being made, I would only ask if this provision of Article 3 remains or needs to be brought into line with what we have in these amendments to be held at this session of the Assembly. Since this law does not require any additional funding in the state budget, because they are already provided in how in the state budget on the work of the Cultural Councils in municipal, municipal and urban budgets, I think there is no reason not to support this law in the first reading and to ask the Minister and Government to adopt this law by the next session, i.e. to get the final proposal of this law which will then be adopted. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of these amendments to the Law amending the Law on Cultural Councils. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28719	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the final address, Mr. Minister Bozo Biskupic, was made. Here you go. Thank you. Well, anyway, when it comes to this very important vertical that was mentioned here. When it comes to that, of course we have called. However, the problem is slightly greater, as many smaller cities or municipalities have not formed all the councils in time. We have called upon such meetings to come to the heads of the cities or municipalities, not of course the presidents of such councils. However, as it is positive, we see this positively and that the leaders of course and the administrations that stand up for culture, because in this way the agreement is still possible. It's good stimulating, of course, when it comes to tourism such a discussion. We take care of it and we care and we know it. It's our problem and our tourism together when it comes to souvenirs. However, I must say that we have made the same progress, especially in the Sisak Museum and Dubrovnik Museums. There are very good examples when it comes to jewelry. This seems to have gone a long way, as it is evident that even the Zagreb goldsmiths have received this in some way European license for making that gold jewelery of Dubrovnik. That means that interest is far greater than we're aware of. And that's very good, that's what we encourage and support. The museums have been given an order to adjust in summer working time to adapt especially at sea, but the same problem is also awkward in Zagreb, for example, that you can not enter any museums on Sunday afternoon, and families all go out and would very much like to visit some museums. We've given such instructions, because usually museums are closed on Monday, only professional bodies work, and those people on Sundays can sort of make up for that day, and how they always change. When it comes to this article 3 we will of course be... and that part will be defined to the end. Because like he said, we were doing a little bit of work, so maybe we came in a way before maybe we should have been at the Parliament with this law. Although the truth of the matter when we did so was done, the secretary of state who was in charge of this activity was full of praise that we were so hasty, but it happened that he would go in two readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28722	We move on to the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Cultural Councils. That was the first reading, P.Z. No. 278. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. First. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Cultural Councils is hereby adopted. And two. Any comments, proposals and opinions raised in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that the Law amending the Law on Cultural Councils has been unanimously passed with 98 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28723	And now we move to point 10. I propose, and the promoter is in agreement here, if you are agreeable colleagues and colleagues to join the debate on 10th, 11th and 12th, because it is from the same proposer, because matter is related to local and regional self-government. Any objections? Do you agree to that? Thank you very much. I find this proposal accepted. And we're moving to 10. Proposal for a law amending the laws on amendments and additions to the Law on the City of Zagreb, with the Final Proposal for Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. no. 272 Proposer: Representative Vladimir Shakespeare 10. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government ("National Journal", No 125/08).), with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. no. 273 Proposer: Representative Vladimir Shakespeare 10. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government (National Journal), No 109/07.), with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 274 Proposer: Representative Vladimir Seks The discussions were conducted by the Committees on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government. We received the report from the Committee at its meeting, the applicant submitted an amendment that becomes an integral part of the proposal. Does the promoter, Vice President of the Parliament, honorary colleague Shakespeare, want to take his word for it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28724	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will briefly present the content and intensity of the amendments and the addition of these three laws. It is the fact that the State Election Commission, by analysing the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the City of Zagreb, has observed one legal incorrectity of the final provisions relating to the time of entry into force of these laws. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government since 17 October 2008 prescribes that it enters into force on 18 May 2009. The Law on the City of Zagreb also enters into force on 18 May and that Act amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government from 2007 enters into force on 17 May 2009. And the State Election Commission, considering these laws, came from the fact that the upcoming elections should be held on 17 May and from the presentation of the final provisions of these laws or the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, its amendments and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the City of Zagreb are not in force on 17 April, and the question of the legal validity of decision-making on the calling of elections is raised. And this other law should come into force on May 18th, this was a lapus on April 17th, May 18th. For these reasons, it is simply suggested that, as one of the possible variants and alternatives for the entry into force of these laws, a variation be adopted, instead of taking effect on 18 May 2009 and 17 May, to enter into force on the day of the Decision on the opening of the first subsequent general and regular election of members of the municipal and city councils, the County Assembly and the City of Zagreb City Assembly and the municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb... One unequivocally legal correctness to avoid any dilemma is that on the initiative of the State Commission you submit amendments and additions to these two laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And another thing, since it was the same through the debate that was important not to block the local and regional self-government itself, has submitted the amendment in the same text as MP Zvonimir Mršić, according to which the heads of municipalities, cities and counties strive, will seek to act until the entry into office of the newly elected mayors, mayors and municipalities and mayors in order to ensure that the legal gap and the factical void does not lead to the blockade of local self-government. We will have, there have already been 17 laws, which will likely be discussed next week and where businesses from the sectional headship of the municipality, cities and counties, since these laws of the headship cease to operate, legal action, the heads of state are abolished, that in different laws where certain tasks are intended to carry out the headship that these jobs will behave in the rule and duties of mayors, mayors and mayors and mayors. We'll have that on, soon on the agenda, so cover ourselves and who's gonna act on behalf of the chieftains when she's gone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28725	Thank you very much for the proposed three laws. The government gave an opinion. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? No, I don't. Would the Committee's rapporteurs like to take part in the debate? No, I don't. Then we're going to a club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, a fellow representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28726	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Secretary of State, Your Honor. The SDP club will support this bill, it would be better if the proposer might also give some further clarifications. But we'd like to warn you a few things. First of all, the Law on local self-government relating to local elections was in this Croatian Assembly in three readings. It's one of the very rare if of the very rare laws that's been in three readings in this House. After three readings, he was adopted in this Croatian Assembly, where neither the government nor the ruling majority had any objection to when the law came into force. And the three readings provided for the law to enter into force on 17 May 2009. And before that law came into force even before the law was applied, the Government had considered the law, referred to the parliamentary procedure of amending and supplementing the law which had neither entered into force nor been implemented, in which it said that the law would apply on 17 May in certain elements, and in some other elements it would be valid on 18 May. All parliamentary committees, other than the Committee on Local Self-Government, did not have any objections to the application of that law. We have a very absurd situation that today, not on a proposal from the Government that has a much better professional apparatus, but that we have parliamentary representatives or an individual representative, and even he and the Vice President of the Parliament, are correcting this law that is neither today nor in force until today's day. This is the first time we've changed a law twice before it even came into force or before it was even applied. Now I ask the question how is it possible, how is it that three readings we had the first time, so we had the fourth reading the second time, so now we have the fifth reading, that only in the fifth reading we came to the realization that it's impossible to call elections under the law that will take effect the day after the election. And I could agree that no one saw it, but it was seen and it was seen in this hall. You know, we often listen to remarks or suggestions from the ruling majority, and especially from the government that any good proposal coming from the opposition will be adopted by the government. Not some, not some, not one, but each. Says the Prime Minister every one. The Deputy Prime Minister also recently said that if a colleague Milanovic has a good proposal that he should direct him to the HDZ centre and that will all be fine, he will be accepted. Well, you see, in this Assembly hall, it was debated when this law was read for the fourth time about these illogicalities that we passed the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on the City of Zagreb that we forgot were brought into the first package and that we decided that it would take effect the day after the election, but that proposal or that dilemma was not wanted to be heard. The ruling majority had no own opinion, but had the government's opinion. And now he's one of the key dilemmas that comes to me when Vlado started thinking differently from the government, because for a long time Vlado thought the same thing as the government. The government supported the government, the government on the board advocated what the government thought. And at one key point, Vlado decided to have his own position. And now, in the technology of our Parliament, it would be good to bring in the paper and say that we will no longer make proposals to the government, but to the government. Because we better tell the government what's wrong and warn the government in time that something would be good to change, it's much more effective than to send it across the street from Mark's Square or not, God forbid, to the HDZ center. It would be good for the government to pour the ashes on its own, not for the government to do it for her. But either way, we have a technical change today, about a technical change. But elections can be called on Tuesday, so the government of the Republic of Croatia can decide on 16 Tuesday to call the elections and it has the freedom to decide between 16.3. and 16.4. Today, we need to discuss this text of the law in order to vote on it again tomorrow and ask people in the People's News to work overtime to print out this law that is likely to come into effect tomorrow, so that at the moment when the Government can call the elections we have and the law by which these elections can be called. Now you see, in democracy, Parliament controls or influences the work of the government. Unfortunately, we have an absurd situation that is expected to do so only an opposition, without the ruling majority in the Croatian Parliament having to influence or control the government's work. This is one of the key indicators that it would be wise for Parliament to finally start controlling the government's work, and in Parliament there are MPs and there are also the ruling majority and the opposition minority. And as complicated as we're going to be in that task, we won't be in a situation where from the fifth attempt we might come up with a solution that will ensure that elections are held. Imagine you in which we are currently in a legislative clumper in which elections are to be called. Today we change three laws. Next week, we will amend 17 laws in which the proposal, adopted by the government on Tuesday, already states that these laws have been passed. The proposal for a law that is yet to come to the agenda of this Croatian Parliament tomorrow says that these laws are in force. It is for the first time that the government adopts a session of the government law that contains provisions of a law that does not exist at all. Because imagine if God didn't give up, for example, Vlado decided to put this law into two readings or if there was a change in one article of this law, imagine if the amendments that fellow Shakespeare here said he had invested on this and changed the whole concept of what the government proposed on Tuesday were based on the non-existent law. And probably already in the drawer there is a prepared decision to call the election only needs to hit the date since the pre-election campaign will take place because fortunately the government has no ability to determine when the elections will be. Imagine that the government was left with the possibility that even that date would determine. So what would the laws look like to us, if the government can't pass the law by which they will call these elections? So this is a very serious question, a serious question because it's talking about something that's a constitutional category. Because the Constitution says the government of the state can be limited by local self-government. Local self-government is almost like the fourth power, and as a legislator, we treat local self-government in this way. Today, none of us can say whether at the time of the election, they will remain or will not remain headmastership. The law stipulates that the day of the election, then, the chapters disappear. The amendments of fellow Shexa and my amendment say that we propose that the heads of state remain. However, the 17 laws that come into the procedure tomorrow say that the chieftainships are gone, say that there is no headship. No, no. 17 laws that come into the procedure tomorrow, which the government wrote under a law that does not exist, say that the headship does not exist because this law is written that there is no headship. And they read what Vlado wrote. And we have a problem today, because it's not just a question of whether it's going to be a headship or not. Well, there's some work to be done. It should, the chieftains should hold at least two, three sessions. Most city councils and county parliaments predict another assembly prior to the disbanding and calling elections. It would be logical, okay, fair, that today we know about when elections will be called and that we really leave enough time for people to finish the job they have, because regardless of the other headships or not the other headships their ability to act is very limited because we have the Law on the transfer of power that absolutely narrows them down, so other than those who are going to abuse this law of headship will not play a significant role. But chieftains, councils, the County Assembly still need to do the headships at least two-sessions, and city councils and county councils at least one session at a time. Finally, draw the line and give the bill to the citizens. We don't know that today. So neither today when we discuss this simply do we know whether there will be a headship or not, nor when elections will be called. What the only dilemma that has here is what I said to beg my colleague Seks to explain to us is that this law is passed so that he will be in force when elections are discussed, because he is being debated by the elections. Now, this law says that the law will come into force when elections are called, which means that they will first be called, a decision to call elections, and only then will this law enter into force. Now, if the reason for this law was that elections can't be called until this law is in force, then I don't know how a decision is going to be made to call an election that is a prerequisite for this law to come into force. Perhaps this should be the case now, too, and it is certain that the elections will be called very soon. Perhaps we could determine that this law is in effect I don't know within eight days or a few days. Because it turns out that I don't know at the beginning of the decision or at the end of the day this law comes into force. But then, first by law, the decision is made and then the law comes into force. In order for the decision to be written, the law must first enter into force. So, very one, but I am convinced that Vlado will find a solution to that before the government finds a solution to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28727	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished colleague Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28728	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the proposal for this law, which today is ahead of us, i.e. three laws in a united debate. The Croatian Democratic Community club has always supported all laws that regulate and strengthen local self-government. It is certainly the Croatian government in this term, and also in the past term, as well as this Croatian Parliament in this and last meeting has made a number of further steps in developing and strengthening local self-government from fiscal decentralisation, decentralisation of the measures outlined in the government's 2008 programme. One step is certainly a direct selection of local and regional self-government leaders. This issue of direct elections has been discussed for over 10 years. He is mentioned by all political options, but here is the meeting of the Croatian Parliament in the past term and the Croatian Government has gained courage in the past term, I would say and finally pass the Law on the direct election of leaders. This is certainly fair to citizens because finally citizens and voters will be sure to vote for a particular person, its programme, and its political orientation, ultimately for its integrity and that it will be the person who gets the trust of most voters and will be the leader of the local or regional self-government unit. It will not be as often as it has happened so far that persons who have had a negligible part of the electoral body behind them by some miracle, some agreements and chemistrys come to the helm with very large powers. The passing of this law, I personally hold one strong anti-corruption measure because its application will completely disappear, i.e. become negligible cases of the transition of elected councilors from one political option to another, which has often caused suspicion of corrupt actions because it was of great interest in the game and because the crossings could change relations in the leadership of the executive government. By passing this law, this will not be possible, the crossings will not result in a change in the executive head and will therefore become less interesting both to actors and to the public. So why was I talking about this law? Because the adoption of this law has just required the need to amend the laws governing the powers of the executive body in the units of local self-government and representative bodies and their balanced functioning. Therefore, last and previous year, the Laws amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the City of Zagreb were passed. These laws as the date of entry into force are set on 17 May 2009 or 18 May as the day of the elections, or the day following the elections. And today we are discussing here, we have a joint debate on the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government of 2007 and its amendments from 2008 and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the City of Zagreb. Why do we need to change these laws today? Well, first of all, to ensure the functioning and ability of local self-government. In fact, it may have been on a good track that the motion to amend and supplement those laws of 2007 and 2008 was in a new way that he came into force because he had arranged the holders of the executive authority in another way, so directly elected municipal chiefs, mayors and mayors without headship, and it was the urgency for him to enter into force, so after the elections were made for these main functions. But two problems were observed. First, that the electoral procedure is not completed on the day of the elections, given the possibility of submission of objections, the resolution of senior bodies in the election process, the possibility of re-election, the second round of elections for directly elected leaders, and therefore the day of finalisation of election results is not and will not be uniform in all units of local and regional self-government, and that the law cannot enter into force in part and individually for certain parts of Croatia, this should have been determined by a different date of entry into force. Secondly, the State Election Commission analysed in the preparation of the elections the laws on amendments and additions to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and the City of Zagreb, which change the important structure of the units of local and regional self-government and the rights of members of national minorities, concluded that they are the basis for the implementation of the elections without being in force at the time of the election and warned of this Croatian Parliament. Therefore, it was necessary and necessary to amend these laws in that part of determining the time of entry into force. I would also say that it is only seemingly technical changes because they are short, but it is actually about resolving a very important issue, which is the time of entry into force of the law, which is ultimately addressed to citizens because the law is now producing a consequence, a legal consequence for them or for the functioning of institutions. It was therefore necessary to find a formulation and to establish the date of entry into force of these laws as provided for by the draft law amending those laws, so as the date of entry into force of the decision to call the elections and enter into force of this law, which otherwise determines the delirquency and authority of the directly elected leaders of the units of local self-government. In order not to simultaneously block work in units of local and regional self-government. That is why the Croatian Democratic Community and the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the proposed changes so that they can implement and hold upcoming elections for local self-government without any obstacles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28729	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Goran Beus Richembergh on behalf of the HNS and HDSSB clubs. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28730	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I'd like to begin by saying that the heart of folk life is in the local self-government. There are no decisions that come so quickly, so directly, so directly, and even fatefully to the citizens, and that they are not actually created in local self-government. And all the sense of the community rests on the models of the local community's functioning. There is no free society if the local community is not functional. And when a situation like this occurs where we can all be ashamed of ourselves because this is a legal cabbage unprecedented in recent Croatian history, then it would not be bad to ask for the heroic health of some people who were in charge of this not to happen. Some of them are sitting in this assembly. Some have already debated and some are not like State Secretary Palaric, whom he would like to ask for heroic health because he has been in charge of many aspects of this problem not to be at all, but I will remember one other man wondering what is going on with the government, what is happening with the government but not with his colleague, which is happening with the Government of the Republic of Croatia lately that such errors have occurred, that half-products or non-usable documents are being sent to the Croatian Parliament. Look at the laws we're harmonising with the European acquis. Look at how many laws and how many times he goes back to this assembly. Either there's someone not doing their job or whoever's doing it doesn't know their job and I'll remember the time. For some of these times, it may have been odious but in the 1990s, at the head of the Government's Office of Law, was a man who had not released a single document in Parliament until the last point and last letter were in place according to the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. And it couldn't have happened that no one in the Parliament and the least representative of the Government was ashamed of the fact that the bill was unarranged, not in accordance with other regulations or with the Constitution or is illiterate, and it happens to us regularly. The end of so many people in the Government of the Republic of Croatia that must care for the quality of the legal texts obviously does not work and then we send these people to the Constitutional Court and they are probably even better there than they were in their workplace. So as it is possible for all the good lawyers to walk away, shut up and let a law pass that cannot go into effect as it does not only legally, but also the practice of all legal schools requires, and also sound logic, how it is possible to hold elections under a law that has not entered into force which could have happened to us. And in order for some people who read it more carefully, we would logically compare opportunities and identify problems, we would not talk about it today at this last minute. And let us remember, in fact, that all of this new system has passed where it is really a key thing to directly select some leaders such as the mayors, mayors and mayors, and then their deputies, which he has been through since the moment the Croatian People's Party brought this proposal to the Croatian Parliament and until the moment we are talking about today, what this system looks like compared to what we have proposed, which all of these things have changed in him to that extent that it now looks bizarre. So let's not forget, the deputy mayor can suddenly choose the city council or the municipal council. Yes, he can if he resigns or dies. His deputy elects the city council on the mayor's proposal from that part of the list he belonged to. And he didn't belong at all. What about the deputy in the ranks of national minorities? For some time now, representatives of our club have been warning that we have not prepared a procedure and that what we do not want will happen, and that is that no deputy from the ranks of national minorities will be elected at all and he will not forget the third. It is now happening to us that we have seen the gap in dates and that we will allow the government to call elections so that this campaign may last longer than any in Croatia's history. It is theoretically possible that the campaign for local elections will begin in early April. Is that what we really need at this point in time when countries are faced with recession? Is what this means, and this means preventing the functioning of a whole series of bodies, and that means mobilising the Croatian Parliament, because the Parliament will obviously not function at the time of the election campaign itself. Is that what we need now? Is that a cheap solution? Is that a rational solution? So who is proposing this and who is asking it to be responsible for that as well. It is now trying to make some additional amendments and bridge the situation in which if this law, namely these three amendments and the addition of the law, will automatically cease to operate, and then we have that interregne until the constitution of the new government itself, and now the amendments are trying to say that they will continue to function but I am interested in these 17 laws when they enter into force, whether they will immediately come into force, because if they again do not exist because they have nothing to do, because these laws will actually divide the duties between the mayors and the mayors and the councils and the mayors and the mayors and the assembly, but they will probably receive compensation until the new mayor, mayor and mayor are elected. Is that what we want? So isn't this a shame that one of the most important things is to edit life at a local level, to edit the way people who represent the people are chosen, to put them in this situation so they won't know what is and what isn't. Isn't it a shame that the State Administration Office comes in five minutes to 12 with legal acts that will definitely solve who takes over what authority? Is it not a shame that there will be virtually no time to observe that 60 - day legal deadline for harmonising the statutes? And I've been asking you since when, have these three amendments and the addition of the law been in effect? Because that's what it says there. Within 60 days, the statutes must be aligned. I ask who will do this because city councils, municipal councils and county councils will not be. I'm sure they won't be here until their new constitution. We're gonna miss the legal deadline again. So what do we do? Who's to blame for not respecting one legal standard again? Who's to blame, legislator. So is it normal and whether it makes sense that the legislator is guilty because others cannot meet their legal obligations? We're gonna do a review again. I am now asking you what is the deadline within which the municipal councils, the city councils and the county councils, or the city councils, will be able to comply with their statutes with the new provisions of these legal regulations. So it is obvious that so much oversight is made when we are now in a situation that we actually have to apologize, first of all to the entire Croatian people that we have put them in a position not to know that on May 17th and in what conditions they will choose their local leaders. They don't really know what legal regulations they're under yet. Well, then all those who care about these choices as an organisational and functional thing, because they don't know by what rules they'll have to put each thing in place. I, as an agent, at least I wasn't in a meeting when this law was passed, I sincerely apologize. But I'm going to try and say here on behalf of the club, we're going to do everything we can to make changes and additions that must take effect cause as little damage to our citizens as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28731	Thank you very much. We have one application for correction of the alleged, distinguished colleague Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28732	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As we heard a lot of criticism and actually heard on the proposal of this law, a respected colleague said that his party HNS had sent a proposal to the Croatian Parliament on the direct election of parliamentary representatives. So that's completely incorrect. Prior to each election, HNS and SDP promised the people direct elections by the mayors, mayors and mayors. When they came to power, they forgot what they had promised. They didn't even do it now that they didn't do it during the time they could pass this law, they have so many objections. So completely unnecessary instead of admitting that this government and this government have done what they promised to the citizens, and today we will have quite quality local elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28733	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. First, a respected colleague, Dragutin Lesar, applied. Here's your colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28734	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I believe that the set of these three laws must be passed, if in May we wish to have elections according to the concept of direct elections for mayors, mayors and mayors of municipalities. And I would just like to remind myself that the problem of the law's entry into force, especially after two amendments to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government in this Chamber, I have asked the secretary of state how an election process will be implemented under the law that will take effect the day after the election. That was when, instead of one deputy, we introduced two deputies with the will of the majority, which significantly changed the implementation actions in the process of running, confirming, publishing and all other candidates for the mayors, mayors and mayors. That's when I used one rough sentence and I said that I felt like those bill proposals looked like they came out of the Amsterdam bucket shop. A lot of people got mad at me for that. During the last amendment to the law, I warned the secretary of state to read again the law on the election of mayors, mayors and mayors and warned that they remain united when it comes to deputy mayors, mayors and mayors, and I could not intervene with the amendment because that part of the law has not been amended and we will continue to have a situation where, by correcting these laws proposed by fellow Shex, we are saving the matter, but in election law we are talking about one deputy in one, read these articles again. You did not listen to me, and you will see that there is a possibility of an appeal procedure after the candidates have been announced, and you will see that there is a destruction of the application procedure. I have provided you with articles that speak of deputies in unity, not plural. The problem has arisen or curiosity has worked out for me because of article 2 of the law of one, the second and the third colleagues of Shex, which states that these laws take effect on the day of their publication in the People's Newspaper. What is so urgent, important and important is that we use constitutional law which is otherwise extremely rarely used, that a law enters into force on the day of its publication in "The People's Newspaper", not 8 days after the publication in "The People's Journal". And by looking at the deadlines, we could go to 8 days of publication, because we have enough time to call an implementation election under the existing laws. So I concluded that, instead of defining this law, it would be better to enter this law into force on 18 March 2009, as the Government of the Republic of Croatia will obviously make a decision on the calling of local elections on that day. Secondly, the dilemma of whether local chieftains and by accepting these amendments to the law remain or not is completely irrelevant to me and for two reasons. First, due to the Law on the Privilege of Authorities which comes into force with its provisions and restrictions on the day of the vote-making decision and restricts the rights and chapters, the mayors, mayors and mayors, we have clearly forgotten this, but the second reason is that, in the meantime, the Government has proposed after an emergency procedure if I am not cheating on the 17 laws necessary for the implementation of the system of local and regional self-government, but not after the elections, not before the elections, not before and cannot answer the question why the Government is now suddenly proposing to amend 17 laws that, instead of the mayoral and mayoral powers, are, instead of the headship, giving the same powers to the leaders with the provision that they take effect the decision to call local elections. If so, about 17 other such laws will be needed in the Assembly and it is true that everything that has so far been required in any road law, fire protection against fire, health care, social care, such 30 laws where it has been written that some authority has the headship of the municipalities, the city, the county to clarify whether the new system will have a head or representative body, but for the implementation and application of these laws, the issue is to end local elections, the establishment of new representative bodies and the election of leaders. And I don't see any reason why these laws would go into effect on the day of the election call, except for the formal headship to stay, but to have one single authority, to have coffee in the morning and nothing more. Furthermore, no one has suggested and with these solutions that will be needed only as of June, we are in a hurry, which will happen if both of the deputy mayors cease their mandate on any basis. It was the last attempt of anti-business amendments to that part of the law, but we don't solve that problem before the election, we leave it for after the election, but in any case we transfer all the powers of the headship before the elections to the heads of the municipalities, cities and counties as if we have a need, an enormous need to give them powers that will belong to the elected leaders in the future. Who's in the interest of who? On the other hand, on 10 December of last year, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia filed a report in the Assembly and warned that the lack of the provisions of the Law on the municipal economy and the Law on Road Safety caused the annulment of a large number of decisions by cities and municipalities which regulate municipal order or parking and the collection of penalties, which came before us only yesterday or today, and that the Government did not offer amendments to one and another law at the same time and solved this problem which the Constitutional Court points to as the only place where we can solve this problem here in the Assembly. So, I suggest that both these three laws, as well as these 17 that we'll probably put on the agenda tomorrow and adopt next week, instead of those... to enter into force on the date of entry into force, by making decisions on the calling of local elections. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We simply write on March 18th so that everyone knows when the government will make the decision to call the elections and therefore be treated. Less nervous, less nervous, with a message that the campaign can formally begin on April 4th, which means that when this session is over, the parliament will not be in session until June, because in Croatia it is a good, stalking and courteous practice that at the time of the election campaigns the state parliament does not meet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28735	Thank you very much. We have one application for replication. Dear fellow MP Boris Shprem. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28736	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lesar, you are so certain, even though I have heard that this information comes from the Ban Court that the local elections will be called on 18.3. this year, so Wednesday next. I'm not sure about that. And you know why I'm not sure? Because she's a long-term campaign. Do you think this government is going to have a long-term campaign? Because if the election call decision is made as soon as possible, then the campaign is longer, I guess we know that. If it's brought back later, then she's shorter. As far as I know, just some candidates in the local, not all but some significant units of local... I haven't seen it before. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I don't think the government's gonna call the April 18th election, I believe they'll call them there sometime after Easter. That's my opinion. So that's where I replicate because I don't know how you get that conclusion. ... No, it's Easter 12. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I speak well, I know what I say, so I follow when it's Easter. Easter Monday is 13, so somewhere on the 14th might be. Something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28737	Thank you. Replication response, dear colleague Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28738	Now, fellow Sprem, I didn't say the government would make a decision on April 18th but March 18th, and I didn't say I heard it, but I calculated it. That's the difference, in hearing or calculating it. I've been hearing a lot worse lately so I can't rely on it, and my genes aren't exactly like that so I can have these predispositions. But I calculated that it could be an objective day for the government to decide on how to call elections, local elections in the Republic of Croatia. I'm terribly glad I let you down with what I didn't hear but calculated, but here. This provision, which is in Article 2 or the final provision, has offered me an opportunity to calculate or to use mathematics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28739	Thank you very much. Following is the debate of distinguished counterpart Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28740	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I'm about to say is that I absolutely support these solutions, all three laws, so in terms of how they're proposed and for three basic reasons. The first of them is therefore that the entry into force, and therefore the application of the law is determined by these decisions in one unique, clear, precise and truly transparent way, so in all three laws. Secondly, these changes allow for the time-consuming preparation of the electoral procedure, which should also be highlighted and, of course, eliminate any doubts that could arise if the laws governing the single electoral matter, and the elections of course for local regional self-government, were put into effect in different time periods, so within different time limits. I repeat, they remove all doubts in terms of application and the possibility of proper preparation and implementation of the electoral process. And a third element or a third which I would like to point out in the introduction, therefore, that the entry into force of all three laws relating to the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the calling of local elections, starting in this formal sense the electoral process which will be regulated by these laws. The binding of the entry into force of the law is linked to the degree of effect of the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which will, in fact, begin the electoral procedure. However, indeed in terms of these discussions, it should be pointed out that regulation is particularly a transitional period, I do not think that anyone has highlighted it yet or has not highlighted enough. Clearly, we are in one transitional period and it is a sensitive matter that requires, and especially when it moves from one electoral system to another. So we move from one electoral system to another electoral system at the level of units of local self-government. These things, therefore, especially in the transitional period, are very not that it is difficult, but there are different concepts, the most different thinking in how to arrange it. And I think it's precisely these interventions that both this matter is arranged in time and in the right way. Of course, the question is always whether the amended legal texts in this transitional period answer all the questions asked, i.e. questions that will be asked in the order of preparation and maintenance of the electoral process. We have these two sets of these issues, so the first questions or the first set of questions concern the regulation of that period of time, which applies from or at the beginning of the time when the elections are called until the elections are held by the power to end. Secondly, the second set of questions concerns what happens to jobs, of course, from the jurisdiction of municipal, urban and county heads, especially in the light of newly adopted legislative solutions when the headship is no longer in the area of executive authority, i.e. they are not intended as executive authorities but are, of course, mayors, mayors and mayors. I just think that in one debate it was mentioned directly and precisely the Law on the handover of the government that we were changing, so in that sense it regulates these relations. So, they're dealing with handovers at local level. This law is in force and it will also apply in these situations, in this case and, of course, that this transition or that handover of authorities will be done in the end line and made subject to the express provisions of that law. I have that other problem that will also be removed or envisaged by the way and procedure that will be removed, which is the whole set of these laws that are in preparation, which have entered the parliamentary procedure and which should really be changed in such a way that everything that was provided for in terms of the jurisdiction of the county, municipal and city heads is now reshape but not by some kind of automation in relation to the heads of the executive authorities but should also be seen, distinguishing which transactions go, go or cross the basis of the law to the heads of the executive authorities and which should possibly be left to the representative bodies of the units of local self-government. It's final. So, for the first time, there is a situation in the legal, normative sense that we are moving from one system of elections and not just choices, but relations at unit level of regional self-government to another. Therefore, it is necessary to adopt a whole series of implementing and procedural regulations, the law and not the gravity of harmonisation or harmonisation of relations between these regulations, resulting in such a solution. And those solutions that existed were also accepted by many in terms of reasoning in terms of legal preparation and implementation of the election process. After a warning, i.e. after other considerations where the electoral procedure is put into focus, I think the election cycle has justifiably adapted itself to one of these new solutions in such a way that it has really been defined in a transparent way in all three regulations when they enter into force, which is the basic prerequisite for the justified regulation of the electoral procedure and in which it must not fall a shred of doubt whether it is illegal in this sense or in that sense, and this is exactly what happens to these solutions. Therefore, all doubts are removed that in any segment of the preparation and implementation of the electoral process at local level, it would be illegal in any segment and therefore I absolutely support these proposals. And I think that there may still be thinking here and the amendment to resolve and this relationship that happens with the chieftains in this transitional period as well as in this whole set of laws that are in the parliamentary procedure and some other laws, not only those who are in the parliamentary procedure will also experience their necessary change that we will end this job, that appropriate laws will be passed in order to first order and electoral process, and secondly, not to say more importantly. Therefore, the future functioning of local self-government units was in a quality manner regulated by law. Accordingly, I, of course, have put these proposals on display, as well as this amendment, so I absolutely support these changes because I think that in the best possible and most qualitative way they solve all these problems that we have discussed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28741	Thank you very much. One reply of the replica, MP Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28742	My dear colleague, it's almost as fascinating as you said this law solves the dilemma. I thought it was an extensive law of a few hundred pages, and this law speaks, or all three speak one thing and the same thing when that law comes into force. That's what we've warned you four times. Four times you wouldn't listen to us or hear us, and then all the happiness, so there was dissonance in thinking between fellow Shacks and the government at the last minute. These dramatic situations happen in photo finishes. Imagine that it happened in 14 days and that all of this isn't resolved, which is now as resolved and as it settles with these things. And it's even more fascinating that at the last minute or after the last moment at the buffer, the government is driving and giving 17 bill proposals that solve a relationship that will do what, what will be the headship, what will be done by the council. So if you were able to read those 17 laws then it was a little bit like this, little to you, little to you. We're going to give the mayor a little bit, we're going to give it to the representative body, and then we're going to give it to the mayor, and then we're going to give it to a little representative body, and it's not even called the mayor, but it's called the executive body in the draft laws that come into this procedure tomorrow. We had three years of time to bring the whole package of the Law on Local Self-Government, not cosmetically, not technically but entirely because we changed the Law on Local Self-Government in November 2005. We've defined big cities. We will not choose mayors of large cities because large cities exist on paper because yet none of you have the dissonance to think that there is courage and guts to write a Law on local self-government that will apply these things. Therefore, do not exaggerate something that is not. You spray your ashes, it's okay, you need to pass the laws because you couldn't conduct the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28743	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28744	Dear fellow, I am not exaggerating anything, absolutely nothing, and in your own advance on behalf of the SDP Club, you have numbered a whole series of these regulations, i.e. laws that directly refer to units of local self-government and not just in this sense, preparing and implementing local elections. You will agree with your distinguished colleague, I have listened carefully to you, I ask you for a little stage regardless of your fascination, you will agree that it is agreed by the normative local self-government in terms of elections for representative bodies and executive bodies of the local self-government unit when it passes from one electoral system to another and when I will not speak in mind now, when it comes to dozens of laws that must be laid down in both material and formal terms and in terms of their entry into force in order to have one whole and normal functioning units of local self-government. What's your fascination here now? Is that on time, isn't it on time? I think that we are on the same task right now to lay down laws in a way that the electoral cycle can be implemented in a legitimate way, that there is no doubt, that there is no doubt in the sense that the law is in force, that the law is not in force and in terms of its application and entry into force to allow the State Election Commission to prepare the elections and therefore implement them in the best possible way both of us and that we have one situation, one normal situation of conduct, organisation of elections and after choosing the normal functioning of local self-government units. These proposals, it's no exaggeration, make it possible. When I talk about removing doubt, I'm talking about being able to do so in some thinking, and that's what I said when I spoke and discussed this point of the agenda, even if those solutions are feasible. That those solutions are enforceable with the amendment of some other relevant ones. So we have different solutions. All I've said is that these are more precise, better, more accurate, removing doubt, removing suspicion, and therefore I will absolutely support those solutions, as well as those solutions that are on the trail to answer questions about what is going on and with the chieftains in this transitional period, in the period from the election calling to the establishment of the bodies of the local self-government units. So much for your fascination.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28745	Thank you very much. Dear fellow MP Vladimir Ivkovic. It's his next application. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28746	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister. Following these statements, which on the one hand showed possible errors that had occurred, and on the other hand, these same representatives prevented the text from improving in the adoption of these laws. We all remember this very intervention which one of these deputies called upon when, using a business remark, it was prevented that the clubs of the ruling parties, when they proposed a solution in the event of the resignation of the deputy mayor and deputy mayor, although I say today we have heard that some do not read the laws and think that what was proposed has been accepted. No, I don't. It was precisely due to the intervention of the opposition representative that could not be accepted and that no better solution could be obtained than what it is today. So much for good intentions when the law is passed. And as for the statutes that will follow in the alignment of local self-governments, the fact that this text, which is now offered, definitely allows for discussions to be opened, can be opened old, and these amendments could not be opened, and thus allows you to use and enter all these amendments in units of local and regional self-government statutes in units of local and regional self-government from this day forward, and therefore, this day of entry into force at the same time as the publication in the National Journal, and before the election is called, a good solution, not a bad solution, because it will allow you to initiate the coordination procedures of your statutes. I will, of course, support this law, and I think it contributes overall to the solution to this situation that is in everyone's best interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28747	Thank you very much, fellow representative. It is up to the debate on the basis of the application, distinguished colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28748	Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28749	Excuse me, colleague, I haven't been tipped off. It was a replica of a distinguished colleague of the Sprem. Here you go, Comrade Shrem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28750	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I wanted to replicate to my colleague, Ivkovic, because from his presentation, we are now facing a better solution than we now have in the legislation. That's right. But I have to tell you, you said it yourself, just a little among the words, so now I'm going to say it. First of all, the State Election Commission, which wrote a letter, said that the law was not right for you and that is why you reacted. So, thank God we have the State Election Commission as a body independent and who cares about the conduct of the elections that has warned us all together, but above all, the power to change this by saving what can be saved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28751	Thank you very much. And now I'm begging and giving my word to my colleague Ingrid.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28752	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. These three laws, we see, were not their destiny to come into force, the amendment came as a cloth, a rag on the laws, but not only that, in the meantime the amendment came to the amendment. So, obviously it was all because of the government's tenacity to be persistent in, so it's human to sin, but not just to be persistent about these mistakes, especially when you're warned about these mistakes and now here, when you see that there's no place to take responsibility again, but the government should take over, is it, to save the government as it has described this quite pitoresculy speaking on behalf of the club our colleague Mršić. But here's what it is, I shouldn't waste a lot of words about it, but in any case, you shouldn't perform as triumphantly as if you're saving what you've ruined yourself. So it's human's confession and we made a mistake. Just take it easy out there. However, this remains a whole series of occasions, given that it is a draft law with a final bill, an opportunity to say something about a whole series of ambiguities that, if they do not already require changes, because it is now too late for them, but in any case interpretation of the time, Mr Palaric, so that these interpretations do not depend on who referred these questions rather than on time and unambiguously, that the Central Office will not be a laboratory in which I say from a certain election victory or defeat to turn into victory and we have enjoyed it quite a lot. The same way this country pays the DIP and its members dearly. Now the DIP is strengthened unlike the first version of the more excellent Supreme Court judges, but unfortunately depending on the enquiries from some local environments quite contradictory, oral interpretations arise. This is not worthy of such an institution for which citizens pay expensively, regardless of the oral questions, the answers must be unequivocal, so that on the elemental unknowns which are not allowed to be resolved by interpreting the law or by causing different interpretations either logically or particularly in combination with the necessity and use of different interpretation methods we need to get unambiguous answers. Here's one that most often people from the field ask. First of all, how certain the lists are because the law states that political parties can in these coalitions and how the list bears the name then. However, in combination, this will be the most common case and the strongest parties to go to coalition with independent lists, what is fate and what is the name of the list. No one says if they have to collect signatures, too. The law did not say and we ask the answer to such questions, and this is an opportunity to answer these questions. Furthermore, the issue of incompatibility of functions, in particular, is raised in those local self-governments that have up to 10,000 inhabitants, where there is the possibility that a leading man performs unprofessionally his duty rather than volunteering, so there is a question and there are such cases, especially small environments, that there are not very many people, so the question is what is specifically the head of the school that is running for the head of the local self-government unit, so the mayor, and he is on the list and the question is when he is not the founder, or when he is the founder of the county. Is that incompatible? We need to get that answer right away, and that's not why we're gonna wait to see if that director's from this political option or that. It can't happen anymore, it's compromised this country a lot, and it's overloaded. Let us remember how the European Community reacted after the 2005 local elections. That's when we embarrassed ourselves with trade contracts. Don't let here as the Central State Office that you have to watch over the legality of the local self-government unit so that then something that happened to go down those paths and not correct the mistakes. There is still time to acquire the authority of that institution that I say must be and must watch over the legality of the units of local self-government, and his role and role of the Central Office is even greater in this new position, the strong position of the unit leader of local and regional self-government in any case. It is a very interesting question that after the elections, this law on the City of Zagreb must appoint again the leaders. In no unit of local self-government or regional self-government, therefore the county because the City of Zagreb has the status of the county is not. However, they fall under the Law on the handover of authorities, and it is clear that they are immutable in themselves after the elections, not of course if they do not do their job well when they fall under the sanctions of the Law on Officials and Peasants. So, as it comes to that, it's also one question, and here's a chance to talk about it. With the statutes we have serious problems and we will have problems, and so will those who observe us and judge us as a whole of the successful... political system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is not permissible for relevant data to be and these are already announcements, now I cannot safely argue whether from the Central Office or from the DIP that the data will be relevant as of the last census in 2001 when the situation in the population and in the population structure has changed absolutely significantly. We are witnesses, and we know these are relevant data as only in certain election units in the last parliamentary elections have increased the number of residents to an alarming number that some voters exceed the number of inhabitants. So these are exact indicators. I will once again state this example but this is no longer the calling of the Central State Office, this is now a matter of the Constitutional Court. It goes on for the fourth year, so in two months, there will be a groundless lawsuit that we as a SDP club have filed to the Constitutional Court for a decision by the government that did not want, not a fellow government of yours, but a government that is more often wrong than you, made a decision not to recognise to us the 12th councilman in the city of Zadar with an explanation, please once again, because it is generally known that the voter lists are not arranged. And since the Constitutional Court obviously doesn't know how it's going to get out of this, it requires time to swallow up this one here's a problem that the Constitutional Court has to be reluctantly confronted with. You see, if such a reasoned one would no longer come out of the Central State Office workshop at all, it is very good for us to specify when the statutes are obliged to do so, to adapt the units of local self-government to their statutes to the Constitutional Law on the application of the rights of national minorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28753	Thank you very much to my fellow MPs. We've exhausted the charges for the hearing. State Secretary Mr. Palaric answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28754	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, every time you talk about local self-government, you talk with a lot of passion. I'm probably in good intentions to make the system better, but sometimes something is said that certainly doesn't hold water or is interpreted in a way that should not be interpreted. This esteemed House passed the Law on the Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb, which is in force and which gave the government clear authority to call the elections. Therefore, the issue of not being able to vote is at least the wrong interpretation of the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. We heard and that's why I had to react a lot, a lot of attacks on the central state office with accusations that he made decisions one way or the other. So, I'm glad to think the Central State Administration Office has great power and authority, but that's far from true. The Office is one body of the state administration that prepares the draft laws for the Government as a formal proposal that the Assembly adopts. So we do professional jobs, we give opinions, we interpret everyone equally, when we're asked and written opinions signed by either I or my deputies, they commit the body that betrayed him, not the person, but the body, and there's no action in one case or another. And on the principle of office, it is best to say that this office has proposed to the government the disbanding of the two county councils and one city council when we have undoubtedly established that council members have been replaced beyond their will by the use of Bianca's resignations. So when we talk about the principle of greater evidence, there's no more. Therefore, even in this election I enter ready, the elections are complex. They include only 36,000 people from the electoral boards, election committees and the state electoral commission, including the Constitutional Court. Every body will do its job. We have improved the electoral system to lead the direct election of mayors, but we have also improved it by adopting the Law on the financing of independent political parties and candidates, and we have also improved it by introducing the State Election Commission as the dominant professional body politically balanced and I am convinced that the State Election Commission will also pass the exam in these elections as it has passed in parliamentary elections, because as much as someone claims that we have embarrassed Europe, the truth is quite the other way around. The Council of Europe, the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe, has the best opinion on Croatia. International OSCE observers and all other election processes in Croatia were evaluated with the highest score. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28755	Thank you very much. In writing, sir... This concludes the debate for the united three points. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28756	We move on to the final draft law amending the law on... What does this say? In amendments to the law on the City of Zagreb, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 272, Proposer Vladimir Seks. The debate is closed. Amendment submitted by the legislator pursuant to Article 169. The Rules of Procedure have become an integral part of the final draft law and are not voted on. The adoption of this law requires half the majority of all MPs, so at least 77 votes. I am voting on the final draft law amending the law on amendments to the Law on the City of Zagreb. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was passed by most votes, 95 votes for, 7 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28825	Moving to the point of the 13th agenda, that's 13. The proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the National Council to monitor the implementation of the National Corruption Management Programme of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system submitted a proposal for this Decision pursuant to Article 129. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. We received the proposal by mail. The applicant's representative considers that everything is clear and that there is no need for an introductory explanation. I'm opening a debate. And the first to enter into the debate was on behalf of the HDZ Club, a distinguished colleague of MPs, Ana Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28826	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. A serious anti-corruption programme has been adopted in the past assembly of the High House and in the past term of today's Croatian government for the first time. The Croatian Parliament adopted the National Anti-Corruption Programme 2006 somewhere in January or February 2006. - In 2008. Although there were programmes to fight corruption in previous years, we must stress that this programme had for the first time had certain measures, through action plans, it had certain deadlines and holders of individual tasks from that programme. The result is precisely in those two years of significant improvement in the assessment of the perception of corruption and in the Transparency International studies. The Croatian Parliament followed the 2006 programme, which identified as one of the measures and strengthened the institutional framework and the adoption of the Decision on the National Council for the Monitoring of the National Anti-Corruption Programme, so in July 2006, a decision was taken at this Croatian Parliament on the establishment of the National Council on the basis of the Decision on the Anti-Corruption Programme 2006. - In 2008. As a result of the implementation of this programme, the establishment of the council has been proposed, it is proposed that the President of the National Council should be a representative from the ranks of the opposition, the National Council is scheduled to oversee the implementation of this programme, propose measures for their implementation, and that it will not carry out the tasks of government bodies and institutions, will not act operationally, but will assess the ways and results of the implementation of the National Programme. The Croatian Parliament last year, on 19 June 2008, since the programme had previously highlighted it has adopted a Corruption Prevention Strategy replacing the National Corruption Prevention Programme. The government adopted an action plan in the strategy in June. The part of this action plan, which sets out the institutional framework for the control of corruption, states that experience gained in the implementation of the previous national programme has indicated the need to strengthen the institutional framework with a view to more effective implementation of the action plan strategy. The National Council should play a proactive role in monitoring the strategy, experience gained in the implementation of the previous national programme has shown that it is necessary to strengthen the role of the National Council in the coming period to provide that, in cooperation with the National Coordinator, the National Council is to establish more direct communication with the institutions responsible for the implementation of the Strategy and the Action Plan. The strategy's action plan provides that the National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme at the Croatian Parliament will become the National Council for the Monitoring Strategy for the Prevention of Corruption, which is expected to take a proactive role in monitoring the implementation of the strategy. In addition to monitoring the implementation of the National Council Strategy, it encourages and organises thematic discussions on preventing corruption, it proposes measures to further improve anti-corruption policy. At the head of the National Council, it is and will be a representative from the ranks of opposition in the Croatian Parliament and, in that sense, the action plan provides for an amendment to the decision on the National Council to monitor the implementation of the National Programme, to strengthen the role of the Council, to facilitate its proactive role in the implementation of the strategy, to provide for administrative and technical assistance to the National Council in order to be able to work more effectively on its mission and to establish more active communication in the coming period to the institutions responsible for implementing measures under the Action Plan and Strategy and, in this context, to strengthen administrative and professional support to the National Council. There are certain funds in the amount of millions and 29 thousand kuna for this purpose. Amendments to the Rules on the Systematization of Jobs in the Croatian Parliament and amendments to the Decision on the National Council for the Monitoring of the Anti-Corruption Strategy are foreseen. In this respect, the Croatian Parliament is tasked with amending that decision, the competent authority to propose amendments to the decision is the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. I must say that, in this form, the Decision amending and supplementing the National Council Decision to monitor the implementation of the National Programme has also supported the Council itself, and the decision fully implements what has been drawn out by the Action Plan and the Strategy adopted by this Croatian Parliament. It means that throughout the text it changes its name according to the new anti-corruption document, the strategy. Furthermore, those tasks that the National Council already has under its existing decision are complemented by the fact that this National Council has an obligation, i.e. to submit a report to the Croatian Assembly twice a year, twice a year. In an organisational sense, this decision is also complemented by the way that it determines that this National Council has, with the President and the Vice-President and nine members, by electing from parliamentary majority MPs, since the President is the representative of the opposition and that three members of the National Council are from the ranks of MPs, and two of the parliamentary minority MPs, and the MPs of the parliamentary majority are one in which the rule of law ensures the domination of MPs of the parliamentary minority, precisely by seeking to strengthen minority control over the majority, given that, by the nature of things, there is always doubt where the powers are suspected and that where powers are greater. Since here is the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community will support, of course, the proposal for this amendment and the addition of the decision, because it is also on the trail of the provisions and strategies of the fight against corruption and the action plan that has been made on this, which this Croatian Assembly has adopted in the past term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28827	Thank you. The HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28828	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Peasant Party Club will support the Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision on the National Council for the Monitoring of the National Anti-Corruption Programme. Today in society, we agree with the fact that corruption is a major problem and that it is present in society and that we must do everything on its reduction, or on its full suppression. We all know that corruption is an act contrary to the public interest that violates morals and legal norms and destroys the foundations of the rule of law, and even doubts that corruption has a public perception that corruption is present raises the question of the credibility and success of each government. That is why we in the HSS believe it is necessary to invest all available funds and all possibilities in curbing corruption. We therefore consider this decision a step forward in order to enable a more successful fight against corruption. This decision strengthens the role of the National Council, which we believe will successfully achieve its role in monitoring the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy. The pro-active action of the Council also has the opportunity to make more direct communication with competent institutions and therefore to monitor and effectively, but also to encourage the measures and procedures referred to in the action plan with a strategy to combat corruption. In order for the National Council to achieve the assigned tasks, it is also necessary to provide administrative and technical support for what is actually done by these amendments, and the report twice a year speaks of the importance given by the Croatian Parliament to the National Council and pays attention to the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Programme. And more important than these changes themselves, we in Croatia believe that the repression of corruption is not and should not only be the obligation of some state bodies that have this in the works, but the social action of the widest proportions to which economic operators, NGOs and citizens should be involved. Such activity of all factors in society would be a long-term good solution, which means that there is a political will to tackle corruption which turns all measures into a reform of the entire society, a society of democracy and a free enterprise economy. The HSS Club supports all changes because they contribute to a more successful council action, and thus more successful implementation of measures from the action plan in the Corruption Prevention Strategy, which ultimately means strengthening all forms of the fight against corruption, i.e. improving the legal and institutional framework for the effective and systematic repression of corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28829	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28830	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Corruption is a problem that is highlighted in almost every report by the European Commission as an example of the inefficient work of the competent authorities, particularly inefficient and slow judiciary, but also indecisive of the executive and legislative authority of the Republic of Croatia. The inefficient judiciary and corruption are among other key areas on which the European Commission's assessment of Croatia's ability to become part of the European Union depends. Of course, we should not be the priority of meeting the conditions of combating corruption just to join the European Union, but rather to combat corruption as a cancer of Croatian society, future corruption reduces gross domestic product, reduces wages, reduces pensions, reduces the quality of life as a whole. As part of the overall anti-corruption programme, the National Council was established in 2006 to monitor the implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme. To remind you, it was established in accordance with Article 43. The Rules of Procedure, which states that for the purpose of considering other issues, the Assembly, together with the working bodies established by this Rules of Procedure, may set up other working bodies. Therefore, it is rare to actually hear the question of whether the National Council is the working body of the Parliament at all, so whether it is a spell in heaven or on earth, because here today even though the National Council had its own session and considered this decision, there was no possibility that someone in front of the National Council would say what the position of the National Council was on the issue of this decision. I am convinced that the National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme is a working body that is actually stronger than all other working bodies. So I believe that if such a person can have no obstacle to actively reporting on his work this plenary session on any document that touches corruption issues in any way. Also, there was a lot of dilemma as to whether the National Council, appointed after the 2007 elections, had widely understood in some elements the powers it had. I will therefore read Article 2 which says: "In the context of its tasks, the National Council monitors and monitors the implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme, systematically monitors the occurrences of corruption, which, at its request, provide bodies responsible for the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Programme, analyses reports by the competent authorities on the implementation of the National Programme and action plans to combat corruption and assess the ways and results of the implementation, proposes measures to increase efficiency in the implementation of the National Programme, encourages and directs the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and of the national and other bodies and other factors in charge of the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Programme, submits an annual report on their work. It is up to the National Council to consider proposals, complaints, views and opinions relating to the occurrence of corruption by legal and natural persons and to refer them to the competent authorities." So these are under this decision by the authority of the National Council. And in progress report 2007. The European Commission says that the National Council which was acting in the previous meeting failed to fulfil its basic role because it had too narrowly understood the powers laid down by its founding decision. For this very reason, the SDP club supports the work of the National Council in a new meeting that has just started through proactiveity, so do not play the mailbox in which different strategy holders insert reports, receive confirmation of the receipt of the report and the story ends. The European Commission stressed in its 2008 progress report that it welcomes this approach, but also says it needs to be more successful, even better and more active. The strategy adopted last year along with the action plan envisioned the possibility for the council to ensure conditions for it to be even more proactive. It is interesting, however, that in 2008 it has passed, and we have not seen anywhere that the strategy and action plan in this part are being implemented because no one, and whoever is empowered to do so, has offered to amend the National Council Decision on the establishment of the National Council, but has only been done after multiple requests by the President and members of the National Council for the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Programme. So, this unserious approach certainly did not contribute to raising the stance that in Croatia, the fight with corruption is really the first priority that no one agrees with any delays. The decision we received today is supported by the SDP club. That decision is on the trail of what is written in the strategy and action plan. It is also on the trail of everything that the council has done over the past period, although there is one dilemma left in that decision, it is also pointed out today at the National Council session, so I now have to speak almost schizophrenicly on behalf of the National Council Club and look back at what was at the National Council session, because I didn't have the opportunity to speak in introductory terms as president of the National Council. What am I saying is that this is an absurd situation? Therefore, it cannot happen in this assembly to discuss the problem of corruption in any way, without the President of the National Council being able to come forward on behalf of the National Council, which, again, to mention this decision supported by a majority vote with one vote against. It is very important that we as parliamentary representatives, regardless of which party we were in, show that our political will to fight corruption is not only on paper, but that this political will starts to feel both daily in the work and parliament, as well as all government institutions, ministries and bearers for the realisation of the strategy we adopted. I was recently in Vienna at a meeting where I presented our strategy and action plan and everyone agreed that they were good but that we lack results. We as a SDP club also believe that our strategy and action plan, and this decision that we are taking today, is a good prerequisite, but that we cannot stop at that. Because the assessment we have regarding the fight against corruption in Croatia says it is a perception index according to “Transparency International” 4.4. It is the largest rating Croatia has ever received. Last year was 4.1. But it can't comfort us because the first passing grade is 5. Therefore, until we skip grade 5 we cannot say that the level of fighting corruption in Croatia is satisfactory. In addition, according to a survey commissioned by the Ministry of Justice last year, citizens said they consider the greatest danger to Croatian society to be a corrupt politician, a corrupt judge and a corrupt doctor. Therefore, if we as politicians do not show by example that we will resist any corruption, then citizens' confidence in the system will not grow. This is also the basic role of the National Council, which is tasked with increasing citizens' confidence in the system by its sessions, its analyses, its criticisms and its proposals. So no anti-corruption campaign. And the National Council will, as soon as it discusses the Justice Department's report, consider and implement the anti-corruption campaign's funding, question that non-transparent spending of money on which we see that in each report, the Office of Audit is one of the main remarks, of course, that no other anti-corruption campaign can encourage citizens to report corruption to a greater extent, struggle with corruption if they do not see results at the same time, and unfortunately we still do not have such results. What we particularly welcome in the SDP club is that it is in line with the strategy and the action plan, and also on the trail of what the National Council has proposed, there is an organisational structure that allows for a good fight with corruption at the moment. But again, I say allows, but the results need to be seen. In particular, we hope that the amendments to the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act, which allows for the confiscation of all property acquired before the person is accused of corruption. If it doesn't prove to be taken away entirely. Unfortunately, everything that has happened in the past year in a practical sense has not increased the confidence of the citizens in the judiciary, the police, the state's attorney's office, and I therefore believe that through my critical work, the National Council must do just that. Therefore, meetings will analyse reports on the work of all policyholders and the action plan critically non-critical, but offer critical solutions to the promotion and strategy and action plan. We have a lot of papers that we have written when it comes to fighting corruption, but the results are not proportional to what the papers say. As the National Council, a special task is certainly to work with the presentations of citizens arriving on a daily basis and for this reason it is good that it is possible to establish a better quality of work through the logistics service with the presentations of citizens arriving daily in the National Council. Therefore, the SDP's Club supports such a decision, supports this manner of work by the National Council, and I hope that the National Council will indeed be one body that will show that politicians no matter how foreigners know how to deal with corruption. Therefore, the SDP club believes that we in Croatia have tools to fight corruption. The problem, however, is that those who have these tools in their hands are under-using them, and they have power in their hands regardless of whether they were local authorities or whether they were state-level authorities. The National Council is tasked with forcing the government from local to state level to take the tool into the hands that the Parliament has given him and to stop fighting corruption, unfortunately, to date most of the dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28831	Thank you. HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28832	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. counterpart Lovrin and counterpart Jovanovic presented all the reasons why the position and role of the National Council should be strengthened and I would not repeat and waste time on that. I think we all agree on that. I answered here you see, I think I'm the last one in front of clubs when I heard that my colleague Jovanovic won't be able to perform as president of the National Council. I understand business and technical reasons why. But it seems to me, Mr. Vice President, that it would be good if we showed a little elasticity here, let them tell them what the problems in the work of the National Council have been so far, which they think is good in this proposal, which they think should possibly be further improved tomorrow, etc. I think that with this, we would give clear and single meaning, show the importance that we attach to the National Council and their work. We at the HNS Club certainly look forward to the fact that they will receive administrative and technical assistance and that their role tomorrow may God be proactive and that everything we have heard about in the last 20, 30 minutes will be realized. For that reason I say there's no reason for us to vote against or refrain. We believe that this decision by our Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system is very correct. Only perhaps, Mr. Vice President, in Article 2 many times we use this term which is not too precise, and the Croatian language can be significantly more precise that the National Council submits twice a year's report on its work to the Croatian Parliament. Twice a year can be once in January, twice in February. Probably meant once every six months, half-yearly reports, etc. I suggest that a more precise term may be used in the future and that there will be no misunderstandings about how often and when the report is submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28833	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28834	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I am extremely sorry that Vice-President Shakespeare has to attend the session at this time, as he is also a proposing on behalf of the Constitution Committee. I have a serious dilemma about whether or not we're reading the same document when we're discussing it. So I'd ask someone on behalf of the Constitution committee or maybe just Mr. Shakespeare himself because when I figure it out, it's probably gonna be clear to every fool in this country. The first decision on the establishment of the National Council was called for in the preamble to Article 80. The Constitution, Article 43. The Rules of Procedure and the National Anti-Corruption Programme. Amendments and additions to the decision shall only be invoked to Article 80. The Constitution and the Anti-Corruption Strategy, and I am now asking whether this means that the National Council is no longer calling for Article 43 to be established. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which speaks of the Assembly having working bodies established by the Rules of Procedure, but that it can establish other working bodies as well. I considered that the National Council, when making a decision on the establishment of the call for Article 43, established this Council as the second working body of the Assembly, means that all rights belong to the President of the National Council as well as to the other working bodies and that the National Council as the second working body has the same rights as other working bodies, in terms of the submission of the draft law, amendments, and that it is, in particular, the home working body when it comes to documents that are intended to appear before the Croatian Parliament. If that is not the case, then we have a situation that all other working bodies are stem working bodies, so for example the Committee on Agriculture could be the parent working body in the anti-corruption fight, but the National Council does not. The Rural Development Committee may make amendments or objections or conclusions to the report of the Office of the State Audit, but the National Council may not. I insist on this resolution because the issue of the status of this National Council is not only formal, but also essential because if we cannot make amendments, not only to the laws but also to other documents and to propose acts in the Croatian Parliament as a National Council, I ask the question of how we will fulfil our obligation under Article 2 which requires that our obligation is to propose measures to increase the effectiveness of the implementation of the national strategy. Whom will we propose this to and how if we cannot propose this to the Croatian Parliament as formal promoters to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament? And secondly, they'd probably be gone by then or the dilemmas that come next. Is it possible that when the National Council asks the state authority for indications of some alleged corruption act, they get answers that are declared and marked by secret, very secret, to the extent that they claim not to be multiplied, but to have only the right to insight and read? And I heard you'd have the right to read those documents that all council members would have to pass the security check first. Well, that might be good to do at the beginning of the term of office for all MPs if we didn't just have a part of them, but then I'm going back to the essential question. Whether the Croatian Parliament wishes to have an anti-corruption council as a special working body with powers written in the decision and with the powers to come before you with proposals for measures to improve the fight against corruption, amendments to the laws, and especially when the Government will come with its report on the implementation of the action programme, which is probably the most important document that will be well evaluated, not only in this Croatian Parliament, but also in the European Commission. As long as this dilemma is not cleared, I cannot vote for this amendment and supplementation of the decision because I believe that by amending and supplementing the decision, the National Council shall lose the status of the working body referred to in Article 43. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and becomes a superhuman supremacy only for the purposes of proving Europe that we have a body without authority in front of the Parliament itself that founded it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28835	Thank you. At the meeting of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system also discussed the initiative of the President of the National Council, Mr Jovanovic, to place the council in a position of the Permanent Working Body of the Assembly. After the debate was held, just as all the members of the Constitutional Committee agreed, and Mr Jovanovic, who was present at the meeting, cited the reasons and reasons why the council should not be given the status of the working body. So that decision was then taken on the committee unanimously according to which the council is not the permanent working body of the Parliament, but in this composition and with these competences it has. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28836	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I also reported in an individual debate that I could say something as well as the president of the National Council, so I can see how interesting my position is because I have to report as an agent to speak as president of the National Council. So, if we look at the Decision establishing the National Council of 2006, then this is why I said on one occasion that this decision was made as well as a lot of cases before just to get another decoration on the total papers written for fighting corruption in Croatia. Everything the National Council has done until the new elections shows that I'm right. No one's ever heard of that council. The European Commission, which assessed Croatia's readiness to fight corruption, said the council had done nothing and that it had too narrowly understood the powers it had under this decision. When I read these powers, I was told that when I started working them under my presidency at the National Council, I was told that I understood them too broadly. I consider this National Council in accordance with Article 43, so I'm not a lawyer, so maybe I'm talking wrong. Article 43 states that to consider other issues, the Assembly may, with the working bodies established by this Rules of Procedure, establish other working bodies. Therefore, the National Council is the working body of the Parliament. It is well written that it can establish other working bodies in the decision says on the basis of Article 80. The Constitution and Article 43 of the Rules of Procedure shall be established by this body. So there's no dilemma. We're a working body. Now, the only dilemma discussed on the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure was whether it should be said that the National Council was the permanent working body of the Parliament, where respected lawyers sitting on that committee claimed that this reduced the powers and capabilities of the National Council. What I believe is that, in accordance with Article 2 in which it writes, it proposes measures to increase the effectiveness of the implementation of the National Strategy now and since it is established in accordance with Article 43, where it states that the other working body does not see why the National Council cannot say that known sentence of the "interested working body" and submit amendments and everything else that is submitted in this Assembly when different laws, strategies and everything else are passed. In the past ten months, the National Council held 14 sessions of which were three thematic ones, raised a number of issues, encouraged a whole series of debates, and I believe that the National Council is doing this quality work and that precisely because of this work, the National Council has changed and the 2008 "progress report" score where this shift is estimated positive but even more is required. And that is why I believe that if we read and make a decision about Article 43 because today we are changing the decision, it does not mean that this council is no longer in accordance with Article 43. We just need to be more active together in terms of the possibility of the National Council really being proof that this Parliament is ready to fight corruption no matter who this corruption was concerned with. For this reason, I think that the National Council will be even more active in the coming period, and that these powers that are written in Article 2 will indeed be interpreted by the highest possible extent without infringing our powers.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28837	Thank you. Correction of Mrs. Ana Lovrin's incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28838	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, the esteemed representative Jovanovic and the president of the National Council said that the European Commission had told the explicits that by then the council had not, the National Council had done nothing and had done nothing. That's completely incorrect. The National Council was established on the basis of a programme against government corruption in the previous term of 2006. It was doing exactly what his mandate was, and it was systematic monitoring of the implementation of the programme. And I would like to say that during this period, no other body has supervised the government and the government's implementation of the programme, but precisely the National Council that has regularly requested and received a report from all the actors of the anti-corruption programme. Similarly, it is pretentious to say that the assessment is really improved, that is exactly how Transparency International and the European Commission are, but it is pretentious to say that it is solely because the National Council has now done something. The National Council is now working in the frameworks in which this was envisaged and I must say that this government has created a legislative framework, adopted a series of programmes, established by the Commission to monitor the implementation of the action plan where it has strengthened interinstitutional co-operation and is particularly well assessed by the European Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28839	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28840	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. What my colleague Zeljko Jovanovic was saying was absolutely accurate. This is an unusual very situation where the president of the National Council for Combating Corruption has found himself, but a little later on. I would like to say on this occasion that the role of this council is to see how we are fighting corruption both through parliament and through the government, what the government is doing and what it is doing in the end then and the judicial authority in that chain. Well, maybe this is how we'll know best on the cards because the time of abstraction and persuasion of each other on various committees and also here how harmful corruption is and that we actually have to limit ourselves to that finding in different variants is pointless and I mean unserious. That's why I'm going to go from example to fight corruption first. And here's a picturesque pytorress almost tragic case. In fact, Meko Abdibasic's father, four children persecuted by the USKOK, died in a television explosion, and the news came from Ukic near Zivnica from the Tuzla region in BiH straight to Split. So, what's this about? The unfortunate man Meho Abdibasic was 54 years old when he died in a TV explosion that he bought secondhand, a widower with four children. And in the opinion of many, the news would have gone undetected if, in the opinion of the USKOK and I pray not of the Municipal Court in Split, not of the County Court, but of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, the court did not find that this one did not commit a misdemeanour, quote, which is deadly for the wider social community when he offered 70 kunas at the border. And the circumstances as media reported by Meha Abdibasic's death are indeed borderline with absurdities and absurd circumstances, which have led Meha Abdibasic to the jump court and to the Supreme Court. Namely, he was found by our valuable and valuable inspection bodies cleaning the courtyard in a private yard and being exiled, and he did it to feed his four children because he was a widower. And that administrative error when he went through with it, but in our papers he remained as if under that ban, namely what happened next. He wanted to go before Christmas to Bosnia to his children, because he was back here working legally now, but they wouldn't let him go because of an administrative error, and he was just saying that his bus would run away and that he was in a hurry to the children. Yeah, yeah, and that's exactly what Christmas is about, like Meho chasing his kids. And that's exactly what you see. That's what the court finds out, so I'm talking about facts. And I'll be able to say all that here. Namely, what was it, he offered 70 kuna bribes, but we'll see how he defended himself before the court that his bus would escape if it was a mistake, that he was now free and free across the border. However, the matter came to the jump prosecutor, he was charged, but the Split court did say it was a lewd act and suspended the case, but the jump judge was, i.e., a very, very, very valuable, and he said the appeal and the Supreme Court said that due to the execution for the wider social community Meho had to be placed in custody and that Mexi should be tried. In the meantime, however, a TV explosion occurred, and Meso thus ran before our fates and went to rest his soul at the highest instance to be judged by all of us. Now, how he tried the court in those cases. For other cases when it comes to millions and trillions, it takes a lot of, a lot of evidence.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28841	He moved to the ahireth.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28842	It takes a lot of evidence and long, long procedures with a uncertain end. It's about how we fight corruption through judicial power, because as our judicial officials have said, zero levels of tolerance. 10 kunas and 10 billionths of the same threshold of tolerance we have. That's very interesting. And then we wonder why the president of the National Council has the position he has. Furthermore, through the Ministry of Justice, a cartoon intended for citizens with a message, you see citizens do not engage in corruption. Instead of focusing on the authorities of the state, there is no corruption without them. Then who will the citizens offer corruption to? So, it's focused on the whole cartoon. You are the source of your evil, like little ants. The message is, don't deal with corruption, the state doesn't like competition. Now we've come to ourselves and through these formations, i.e. Councils to monitor the fight against corruption. And indeed what his colleague Ivanovic said later and his predecessor confirmed that she was dissatisfied with the work, that she was a statsian, those are her words. And to what it came down to, it wasn't just the norm, it was all the gatherings we were there, of course, that were on top of the man and the greatest burden of responsibility. In fact, until then the principle of the council did not come to Zeljko Jovanovic, it was down to that we asked the individual ministries to provide us with a report. What my colleague Lovirne was saying and that's true. It's like a student handing over his profession whatever he wanted, he wrote. Without the ability to control, here and there, if there were any contradictions, then it could be intervened. The report, and we don't know what it's about. So they could subdue any report. We believed in good intentions, but apparently it wasn't enough. And it was so recognized as acting out some kind of control, but there really wasn't any fundamental control. Although it is also necessary to request these reports. So, it was supposed to take a proactive role and I think and I'm convinced that, and in the end, it's not just my opinion, it's also an objective assessment of those who are watching us play the role. That's how we got confirmation from Europe, that it's a much bigger and stronger role for the council, the National Council. And now artificially to boast about it, we often do not understand the role of the National Council, knowingly or unconsciously, which takes on a truly proactive role. In some cases, they turn the public on, because everything else is meaningless to ask for a report, good day, goodbye, and it's work. And it's not work, and it shouldn't be exhausted. So, when with such a way of working with which the previous president was dissatisfied and dissatisfied, the new president has taken over the role, and many council members and non-constituent MPs, then he is indeed facing resistance and sentence, I am literally quoting "the work of the council should be limited only to talking about the harmfulness of corruption" and not about certain examples. So we're neither court, the council is neither court nor can talk about it, but it can talk about certain phenomena that embarrass the system as a whole. And as the necessity to make things clear, because talking about the hotspots of corruption, about examples of corruption, is not to tarnish an entire institution, because no institution can claim in advance, or any state, nor can it be possible for us to replace with it any kind of corruption that, if it is not operated in time, as Minister Scalpel said, no matter what scalpel's chain saw is needed somewhere. And that's what the president of the council is talking about, because he's also the most responsible person here, but we're all members of the council here. There was even a question of whether the amendment could work, not in terms of formal amendments, but as normative initiatives, of course. And that's what it takes. Thank you very much. Here is the decision we had to wait a little longer, but therefore it will be quality, and after this decision I expect this second decision that would operate and give dignity and real status and in a material sense to this committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28843	Yeah, seven and a half minutes you spent on. ... An unfortunate fate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] An unfortunate fate and a sad and heavy one. No one's funny. A few corrections, Mrs. Agent Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28844	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There it was incorrectly said that the council in the past council was working, something was told to him, it was nothing, and it couldn't control it at all. It's completely incorrect. The Council controlled the implementation of the National Programme, the state authorities presented exactly within the deadlines, precisely the specific tasks and means of implementation, whether or not they carried out what was in the national programme, according to the same scope of the task under which the National Council is currently working and could in any way be checked whether a certain law was adopted. Finally, this is a well-known public fact. Whether the number of judgments has increased or not, because it is public data, etc., etc. Education for civil servants to strengthen integrity is not implemented with cartoons, but with permanent workshops and work with citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28845	Second correction, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28846	Thank you. Well, here's what I have to say, this sentence is kind of an incorrect finding to me after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28847	As inaccurate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28848	That corruption is harmful is pointless. Well, I don't think it's pointless, it's probably an illusion of this campaign and everything, and it shouldn't go like that, because if we place it in the people, it's going to be even worse. Secondly, I have to say that it is very difficult, and this is also incorrect that we should leave petty corruption in peace, much bigger here, because here is one of our prominent experts, Mr. Zorislav Antun Petrovic, who claims, I have heard him several times already say that corruption is regardless of what is one kuna or one million kuna, so now.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28849	Replica, Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28850	Vice President. You spoke about the work of the Council, the powers of the Council of the past and the present, with what needs to be pointed out once again. So, the National Council is neither a police authority nor a jury. Therefore, the National Council does not carry out an investigation, the National Council does not pass a verdict, but the National Council has a task whenever there is any doubt that the strategy holder or any state body does not work in accordance with the law, does not fight corruption in its midst to point out and to put such a topic on the agenda, and the story of Mecha is a story of small and large fish. Unfortunately, the big fish still haven't entered the network with corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28851	Replicate response, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28852	As the court found it to be a dangerous and deadly act for a wider social community, while Meho, I repeat rest to his soul, died the wider social community in the Croats can surely be relieved now, because there is clearly a large stone that fell from Croatia itself. To say here that corruption of 10 kuna and 10 million is not corruption. Of course it's corruption both ways, but all the strength and the same passion to treat this at least means that we're very thin in coping with large corruption. Well it's known that societies highly corrupt when they catch tiny fish all the justice in, the whole system takes a look at it and all the power, and that's that unclean conscience, that's the principle of compensation. Besides, did we set up the Jump to deal with 70 kuna? So the offenders, or judges of the municipal court of the ordinary penitentiary department, can do so. It is too expensive to deal with this and they are not founded to deal with ordinary corruption, street corruption, but political corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28853	Then let's deal with it. And let them deal with what they were founded for and the powers, and the law-based work. Don't keep mentioning this Mecca because she'll think it's a government spokesman responding to the name Meso. I call myself Meso, yes. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28854	We move to the Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision on the National Council to monitor the implementation of the National Programme for the Prevention of Corruption. The proposer is the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. The debate is closed. I am voting in favour of the proposal for a decision on amendments and amendments to the decision on the National Council to monitor the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Programme. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This motion for a decision was accepted by the majority of votes, 102 votes in favour and 1 vote abstention, as proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28855	We are going to the next item - - Proposals for a Decision on the resolution of the president and part of the members so far and on the appointment of a new president and part of the members of the National Council for Science - Proposer: The Government of the Republic of Croatia The debate was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports Drazen Vikić Topic will further explain the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28856	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, According to Article 11. The Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education is prescribed that the President and members of the National Science Council appoint the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government. This proposal is established by candidates who send scientific and public institutes from the Republic of Croatia, of course, the rectoral assembly, university senates, councils and university of higher schools, HAZU, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, employers' associations, trade unions and individual members of the academic community on the basis of a publicly published call. There are several keys to this, we have to take care of the area of science that we have 6, and we also have an area of art, then we have to keep an eye on the representation of the region, and that we have members from the economy, and in total, it still has to be, so the Council has 12 members and the President, in all 13. There must be four scientific advisors, six regular professors and three members of the economy. Every two years half the council changes, means six members, so there's continuity. This time, both the president and we have before us a proposal for a Decision on discharge and a Proposal for a Decision on appointment. I'll just read what the candidates are proposing for appointing. So for the president of the National Science Council, Professor Dr. Science Krešimir Pavelić, for the members of these 6 that I have mentioned that change every two years, it is academician Milan Mož for the field of humanistic sciences, Prof. Dr. Science Josip Brnić for the field of technical sciences, prof. dr. Ilija Zivković for the field of social sciences, Prof. Dr. Gordan Lauc from the economy, Prof. Dr. Miljenko Grgić for the artistic field and finally Prof. Docent Dr. Ante Curkovic for, from the economy. On that public call, all I could say was 46 candidates from those I said were the proposings I mentioned. That would be brief, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28857	Thank you. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. A SDP representative club, Mr. Agent Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28858	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. It is about the election of presidents and the selection of new members, so the resolution then following the election of new members of the National Council for Science, i.e. The areas that have been declared I mean a consensual strategic activity in this country, especially in view of its current lagging and its rather proportionate lack of education. This agenda item. I will look only at the resolution and election of presidents and on several elements. I'm sorry there's no president of our board here, but what we can do is we can handle it without him. The current president of the National Science Council is the government's proposal for a new president, and I believe that many reasons speak against it. First, Mr Krešimir Pavelic has been too long in various bodies that decide on science in Croatia, in particular in the different compositions of the National Science Council. And we also believe that this is not only the opinion of one political orientation, that the state of science in Croatia and about personnel and infrastructure and about the organisation and about equipment and about finance and the impact of scientific and research activities, especially as regards the number of patents that come from it, which are minimal and negligible in Croatia, are quite poor. Krešimir Pavelic has been a member of the National Council for Science for too long, without being quite responsible for such a situation. But it's just an introduction. Krešimir Pavelic became president of the National Council for Science in the previous term and submitted a rather confusing and highly unconsistent proposal to divide science into areas, fields and branches at the session of the Assembly Committee in 6 months 2008. This proposal was strangely confusing because, for example, as different fields of science, he proposed media, so he proposed agriculture, etc. We warned that this could not be an area nor a field nor a branch of science, but that media science could be a branch of science, etc. So the proposal was strangely confusing. The president tried to defend him, but the parliamentary board rejected the proposal. The parliamentary board practically unanimously rejected the proposal and said that there was nothing to be dealt with and that there was nothing to be done about it. My colleagues and colleagues, believe it or not, three days after the meeting of the Assembly Committee, the proposal appeared in "The People's Newspaper" as a document of the National Science Council, which the parliamentary committee rejected. The parliamentary committee was deceived, thus the decisions of the Assembly Committee were not respected, and it was in fact greatly disrupted by the dignity of this House. The National Council for Science, as well as the National Council for Higher Education, were responsible to the Assembly and could do nothing against the opinion of the Assembly Committee as a parent body. They did it anyway. Then the chairman of the board wrote to the National Council for Science on two occasions, so to the one who is now proposing to be president of the National Council for Science again, to explain his procedure. Believe it or not, colleagues and colleagues, responds to none of the written documents, so the memo did not arrive. And we don't even know today what that's all about. No excuse and no subsequent explanation or sophistication can undo the negative effects and the violation that occurred at that time. Third, the Parliamentary Committee gave the National Science Council the task of the National Science Council coming before the parliamentary committee by the end of last year with a new proposal to divide into scientific areas, fields and branches. The National Science Council didn't do it, but neither did it apologized for not doing the job, although it agreed to do so at the meeting of the Assembly Committee in the 6th month. No later explanation can undo that elemental and irrefutable fact. These are the reasons, colleagues and colleagues, for which the SDP club was also against accepting the Annual Report of the National Science Council and this is something that will make the SDP club against Krešimir Pavelic's election as president of the National Council for Science. We do not enter into the scientific competences of Mr Pavelic at all, but in his work so far, it has proved unable to conduct the strategic activities of the National Council for Science and to insist on it. I remind you that he also adopted these reasons by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture at his 12th session when he decided to propose to the Assembly the selection of members, so new members of the National Council for Science, but not the proposed president. The Assembly Committee withdrew its proposal, I'm sorry, that agenda item was withdrawn in agreement with the ministry so that at the 13th session, the same parliamentary committee would somehow jump into its own mouth and accept those proposals proposed by the Executive Authority. By doing so, the legislative authority once again bowed down before the executive, although it should be controlled and actually ordered. I do not know what exactly the reasons for this proposal is, however, I would like to point out that the president-designate has continued to show disrespect for the Parliament and the bodies elected by the president and members of the National Council for Science, the decisions of the Assembly Committee, the warnings and the written request of the president of the Assembly Committee. We believe that such a person should not be elected president of the National Council for Science. A multitude of very serious tasks stand before the National Science Council. The National Science Council should run the business of restructuring 26 scientific institutes in this small and relatively poor country. And take the business of their restructuring and possible reintegration into universities of '93. and '95. The years have been ripped out. The National Council for Science should be monitored, and perhaps lead to a new form of approval of scientific research projects, which, according to the draft law, passes into the hands of the agency. And with organisational incompetences and discrepancies so far, we're afraid of what will be the fate of these very important affairs. Finally, colleagues and colleagues, we overlooked the session of the Assembly Committee and I would like to warn you of that fact, a very serious one if I may say geographically, and then also a professional fact. The situation is, in fact, such that Krešimir Pavelic of the “Ruđer Boskovic” Institute moved to the University of Rijeka. Therefore, the university, a person from the University of Rijeka, would be in charge of strategic designing or redesigning scientific and research activities in the Republic of Croatia. The newly elected Rector of the University of Rijeka is also the president of the National Science Foundation, which will in future, and I believe that the Parliament will adopt the law, so as a kind of association of scientists, decide on scientific research projects and share money. And so there will be no impossible, but actually inadmissible concentrations of power at a university. I also warn that the problem is that the more complex the problem is that they are both teachers from the same university, from the Faculty of Medicine, so one single institution in the country will actually have two strategic levers for science management across the street from everyone else. And finally, both persons are from the same, from the scientific field and in the far line of scientific field, and therefore this spray would be a very dangerous environment in which science and scientific research projects would be decided in Croatia, more so now that Mr. Secretary of State has been acting as a kind of authority of experts in biomedical sciences or simply speaking from the science of life, from bioscience. And now we're actually assigning, so one man already has in his hands from that area the management and assignment of scientific research projects. Another man who is from the same university, from the same university should be given the authority to manage the entire system and strategic design of scientific research in the Republic of Croatia and we believe that this is a very, very bad conflict of interest and that is another reason why we will be against the election of presidents. Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28859	HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28860	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's another national council. We talked about a national council a little while ago. Since I'm not a lawyer yet, Mr. Jovanovic, I don't know if you're the head of any constituencies, ad hoc bodies or any body. I really don't know what you're doing or where you're going. Here we have the National Science Council in front of us now. We heard this morning nine hours ago that it was a completely unclear position and that council in the Law on Quality Insurance in Science. No one knows what the role or the council will play. We've been like the HNS club countless times over the past five, six years warning that when the chairs are filled in the National Council then one personal criterion should be followed. A colleague, Flego, has just started it here. We first need to know what the Croatian state wants from itself, in which direction we want to develop the state of Croatia, which are our national priorities. We have to lean on this state development strategy for what? A complete system of education and a complete system of scientific research, technology transfer and everything else. If I do not know what the development priorities of Croatia are, how will I tell you I am for Pavelic or against Pavelic? Are biochemical research, pharmaceutical industry and related areas our future? If they are, then you're wrong, then there's more biomedicine to be done. But I don't know if that's the case. I really don't know. No one has ever told me what we want to achieve in 5, 10 or 15 years. Therefore, it is not important for me to give a colleague, Pavelic, who is an excellent scientist, to lead the National Council. Only my colleague Pavelic, if we are to raise our hand for him, has to promise me something, that there will be no continuity in relation to policy so far. On the board, unfortunately, yesterday his colleagues were hunting for it, so let's back him up to ensure continuity. That's embarrassing. We can ensure everything but the continuity of this kind of work in science and higher education. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, If he promises me he won't work like this, then I'll raise my hand to him. It's my prerequisite. That's what I said at the club. What colleagues from the National Council must ensure, must ensure lasting communication with the Government, must know what the Government wants in a developmental sense, then must clearly adapt its work to that strategy. They must, when examining competitions for scientific projects, say the priority in Croatia are agricultural research because we want to not know how to develop this and this section of the food industry to ensure the quality of our tourists, that we want shipbuilding, that we want that, that and that. In that case clearly and the composition of the National Council, it is not a large number of people, it must be such that we will ensure that we are the strongest in this segment, to ensure this and such development and to connect the complete system to the development strategy. But no one's talking about her. She's a prerequisite to me. We are from the secretary of state today, and even from the prime minister we should hear what he intends that we may say yes. In that case, the names of these six people really are competent, able to put out that strategy. This is how I have to admit to blindly raising my hands. I'm very reluctant. So far, the criteria in project financing have been the criteria of friendship. If I knew a colleague, you'd write him a good report. If he was related to me, he'd write him a good report again. If he was from my college good report. That's not enough. So, I repeat, we have to stop working this way. Continuity must not be and for my colleague Pavelic I will raise my hand as well as my colleagues from my club only on condition that he promises us that there will be no continuity compared to the current way of working that is completely unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28861	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Drazen Vikić Topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28862	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I will try to answer some questions, so perhaps I should start with the questions asked by the distinguished Mr. Representative Doric, who mentioned the priorities. We must stress that there is a scientific and technological policy of the Republic of Croatia from 2006 to 2010. I think the government adopted this document on 21 May 2006, which defined four short-term priorities. These are health, environment, energy and materials, these are Croatian identities. The Croatian identity refers to the Croatian language, the Croatian letter, the preservation of cultural identity, the preservation of cultural identity within the European and for the future. Within these relatively broad, so these are 4 short-term priorities that, if I am not mistaken, were adopted from 2006 to 2009, so we need to agree on new priorities this year. Within these relatively broad priorities are every area of science. I mentioned that we have six, and we agreed on some tight priorities. So when we talk, for example, just as an example of the conservation of the environment, that second priority, then we have a strong emphasis, so it's the Adriatic coast, islands and debris. They would say projects that would be more funded than others. So we have this, of course we need to discuss it further, these priorities need to be improved, more focused, and I am grateful for the suggestion of a respected representative, they will really have to pay close attention in the next composition of the National Science Council. I'd just like to mention one thing after all. When I was in 2005, when the priorities were coming together, 64 were. So yet this council has succeeded 4 short-term and 9 long-term, which exists, this document exists on the web and in the booklet, and I don't have it on me right now. As for the somewhat vague position as you mentioned the National Council of Science in this Quality Conservation Act, no, the situation is not unclear, but as it is. The position of the National Council for Science will be defined by the Act on Scientific Activity, as it is now defined and is now valid. However, in this new law, which is proposed only wants to give greater strategic importance to the National Science Council, he was removed from the operational part that was actually very burdening him during this transitional period and transferred that operation to the agency. But of course we have to talk about it, we'll still discuss it in the next reading of this law, and of course, in the new Act on Scientific Activity, it has to be defined, I absolutely agree. So look, the cooperation of the National Council for Science and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is very much in place. Finally, and this scientific and technological policy is the result of this, and I mentioned the priorities, and now I would just turn to a few of these remarks, which Professor Flego mentioned. In fact, Professor Pavelic was indeed in this final term due to the illness of Professor Maria Ivesic, who resigned for health reasons for taking over her post, and they de facto are now the first time I propose to be president of the National Council for Science for 4 years, it was simply so that within the council itself they decided to be him because he had often replaced the professor and proved quite operational. I agree that when little is seen, when a man is not directly involved in this process and is seen on the side, he can often see it confusingly, but I assure you that if Professor Pavelic has been elected as Vice-President of the European Molecular Biology Organization, the well-known EMBO, if this year he has been elected Secretary-General of the EMBC, European Molecular Biology Conference, and this is a roof organization, you have an EMBC, EMBO and EMBL. He's now elected secretary, so he's a clean operative. It means that people in the profession have noticed that he's doing it well, and what when we're having difficulties, and unfortunately there's because there's a lot of things with us in... And in other countries, it doesn't go so smoothly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I spent four years in America, so as great as it looks, when you go into the system and they're really complaining, it's okay, the criticism has to be because they fix things. As far as the bioscience mentioned by the esteemed representative is, the fact is, it is a fact, I accidentally did not even know that he would be, always have in the bag a little statistics, look in the Republic of Croatia of 6... Areas, 36.6 of all... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] is in bioscience. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 47% of all employees are in bioscience research, 43.9 of all published bioscience papers, 42.7 gross research goes on bioscience. And look, it's just obviously our best part. Well, now, why should we give up our best part, and then obviously that the greatest number of prominent scientists is spinning in that area. Well, finally, as you mentioned, there is absolutely no denying that right now is the University of Rijeka, I'm not going to say it's best, but it's certainly the most pro-pulsive in the field of bioscience. It is a whole series, not to mention academic Rukavina, Professor Peru Lucin and many other professors, Professor Jonic, Professor Volaric. Simply, they may be stronger in this area than Zagreb. I'm not, I'm a chemist, so I can't argue, but I'm saying and I think she's worried she's a professor. Yes, exactly, the professor crossed over, you're right, he crossed from Ruđer to Rijeka, but he just crossed over to organize a new priority in the river that the river apparently noticed was missing, and the man is, I say, from Europe. Because watch out, the EMBC has 27 members of Europeans, they are associated with Australia, Israel and Turkey, and it's a big thing that from such a small Croatia we have a man who will draw projects, they're talking about this new EMBL institute in Croatia, so I might not be looking at it as a negative thing because there are simply a number of quality people in a particular area, and then we still have to choose these high-quality people, we can't go to that one-faced distribution. Here he is, as far as what the esteemed representative Professor Flego mentioned, yes, there have been some misunderstandings about it, it's so-called. "Frascati," the professor said first, it was a misunderstanding because it was said to be only one temporary division of the area. Why? So people can finish their Ph.D.s, so people can habilitate. It was simply all buried, but it was stressed that it was temporary, and later it was still done and of course it would continue to be discussed on the board this extended line that came up with the proposal. With those proposals that you justifiably said there was here, so it was temporary, there were a few strange proposals from the university and the university that are now, let's just say what we do with time, no. But let's face it, it was a little clumsy. He apologized several times for it and for the last time on the board and the apology was accepted, at least by part of the board members. But I can't defend him here now, but we believe that by his abilities he has shown that he can lead it, in the end here, that's even Europe recognized it and that's why our support comes from that side. I'd like to thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28863	Thank you. Two corrections. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric first.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28864	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, it is true that Professor Pavelic is a member of those world associations of molecular biologists, but it is not true that such an expert is necessary for the realization of any of the four priority development projects spoken of, you understand. That's my point. So this is no criticism at the expense of Professor Pavelic but rather a way of working so far. That's basic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28865	And Mr. Agent Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28866	Mr. Secretary of State, it is not true that it is necessary to prefer the area in which we have the strongest people but it is true that we need to enforce the law and the law requires bodies, strategic bodies to balance the area with different geographical elements. And that's our responsibility, and that's what we have to worry about here and you over there in the executive power. So it is not true that we have to worry about putting the most people in the area in which we are most successful but it is true that we have to take care of the balance between the areas of so-called representation of these areas in the national councils.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28867	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28868	Proposals for decisions on the resolution of the President-in-Office and part of the members so far, and the appointment of a new president and part of members of the National Science Council. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the resolution of the President-in-Office and part of the members of the National Council for Science. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The decision was made by a majority of votes, 80 votes in favour, nothing abstentions and 24 against in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint a new president and part of the members of the National Council for Science. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The decision was made by a majority of votes, 74 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 25 against in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28870	Let's go to the next one tonight to discuss it. 15. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on districts, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia – first reading, P.Z. No. 181, Proposer: The HNS representative club, the government, delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, local and regional self-government. You received the reports at the session. Proposer representative Mr Goran Beus Richembergh will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28871	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. There is probably one of the shortest laws in the history of the Croatian Parliament when it comes to the measure of the very thing. In fact, we propose that in the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, only one word is changed, or that it be replaced by two other words. What's this about? It is a provision defining the head office of Croatian counties, and the town or village in which the county headquarters is located is listed in an appropriate article in the name of the county. Zagreb County is the only county in the Republic of Croatia whose headquarters is not on its territory. How unsustainable it is to judge for yourself because this element is directly in conflict with the European Charter of Local Self-Government. And while this solution is, therefore, that the headquarters of Zagreb County in Zagreb in the 1990s and had certain reasons based on the real state of things when Zagreb County was practically composed of two completely separate territorial parts of one eastern and other western without hence a territorial link, so when, as a technical compromise Saloon solution, it was proposed that the seat of that county be temporarily settled in Zagreb, this solution became pointless after 1996. Namely, to claim that Zagreb County is gravitating to the City of Zagreb as the Government said in its shrolling and short response is simply below the level expected by the serious government because it would be the same if we said that the headquarters of all Croatian counties should be in the city of Zagreb because ipso actually all gravitate the city of Zagreb. It's the result of a sick metropolis that we witnessed for almost two decades that cost us, but we're leaving that concept. Croatia must give up on the idea of metropolisation for its sake, because it is an anti-natural in its root. It is against the interest of Croatia's development. Zagreb County today consists of 9 cities and 25 municipalities. The largest city in Zagreb County is Velika Gorica. It's two and a half times bigger than the first largest city. The town of Velika Gorica threatens 330 square kilometers where more than 70,000 people live and along three municipalities that engraving Velika Gorica is a space of 550 square kilometers where more than 85,000 people live, which is what more than one quarter of the total population in the county wants to say. And not just that. Velika Gorica is the most economically important part of the county not only by the number of jobs, by the number of crafts, by the number of companies that are registered, but by the extent that it contributes to the financial functioning of Zagreb County. Almost one-third of the county's revenues are alluded to in an area gravityed by the town of Velika Gorica. 37% of Zagreb County's newly created values were created in the Velika Gorica area but these are only some of the reasons. Let's go back to the metrics. The basic idea of local self-government is that in as simple, as efficient as possible and as fast as possible, it provides service to the citizens. In order for this to be possible, it must allocate its services, its services closer to the citizens, not away from the citizens. At this hour in the village where our county headquarters is located, there is not one single resident of our county. Not only that, but from all parts of the county it's extremely difficult to get to the address where the county's headquarters is due to traffic. When you look at what Zagreb County looks like, I'm sorry because according to our rules, we don't even know what's going to be on the agenda of this house tomorrow, let alone what happens today. I was going to prepare and bring you a map of Zagreb County. The one I have in my hand is certainly indistinguishable to you from the last benches, but this gray one, this is the most gray one, Zagreb County. Zagreb County has the most busy roads in the Republic of Croatia on its territory. all the connections that Zagreb has with other cities pass most of the way across the Zagreb County area. And it is not true that these links are only links with the City of Zagreb. No, these are the links of Zagreb County. And when it comes to the Zagreb-Macelj highway, when it comes to the highway that goes from Bregana, when it comes to the Zagreb detour, so-called which notes in more than half of its length passes through the Zagreb County area, not the City of Zagreb, when it comes to highways leading towards Varazdin, Čakovec and the Hungarian border, when it comes to highways passing through Zagreb County and going in the direction of Lipovac. All of these are the roads of Zagreb County's housewives. And when you add to that the highways in construction, which is the Zagreb-Vika Gorica-Sisak highway, when you add to that a fast road that is being built, which is the link of the Homeland Bridge-Velika Gorica which will directly shorten the path for all from Sisak-Moslavina County, and when you present this map, then you will see that the intersection of all these traffic routes is a wider Zagreb zone, right in Velika Gorica. Someone said the geographical center of Zagreb County is in Zagreb. That's just not true. First of all it is a pointless argument, because by that logic the headquarters of the Republic of Croatia is near the Sanski Most. But if you were to create an ideal circle around the borders of Zagreb County, its centre would be right in Velika Gorica. Much more important than where it will really be just the centre of Zagreb County in terms of the location of the city, is the solution to this fundamental principle. Can we effectively develop the regional self-government, the identity of Zagreb County and its functional services if its centre is elsewhere. Well, a lot of people in Zagreb County are actually kidding at the expense of the county government saying it's like a government in refugee. No one comes from the citizens of Zagreb County in the management of Zagreb County, because they don't even know where it is. The cost of maintaining this plant is extremely high because all business premises are rented at extremely high prices. Functionally speaking, Zagreb County suffers terribly because it is its headquarters in the City of Zagreb, because it is organisationally connected to the City of Zagreb, and then in the convention it means that we are the only county that does not have its own police administration, believe it or not. In the Zagreb County area where the busiest roads in the Republic of Croatia and international airports are located, there is no single station for traffic police. Sisak-Moslavina neighbouring county has as much as 2 traffic police stations. There is no registration area for motor vehicles in the Zagreb County. Do you know what a coincidence is? All vehicles registered in Zagreb County wear ZG and enter the first risk zone in insurance companies, as the city of Zagreb is the most risky place in terms of the number of traffic accidents and the price we pay for the insurance of our vehicles is higher than in other parts of Croatia, i.e. higher than it would belong to us by number, at the amount of risk. So is it really the fact that a million vehicles in the Republic of Croatia are carrying a Zagreb license plate, something that solves our problems, so it's simply not true. We who are from Velika Gorica, Bistra, Brckovian, Long Village, Jaska are not ashamed to say where we are from. We don't have a problem when we get to Zabok or Biograd at sea or in Konavela where we come from. We do not need to hide behind Zagreb, because we do not need to have these province problems. A reflection of the provincial spirit that we must all hide our speciality behind Zagreb is something we must overcome. Furthermore, Zagreb County has a calculated head office at the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, which allows only 13 mobile emergency teams, for the entire county's space. Why? Because they're counting, that's what Dr. Kundic will know better than I do, because they're calculating the chieftains based on three cities in Zagreb County. If we could figure out the mains based on all nine cities, we'd be entitled to 43 mobile teams. So it's a question of survival, of existence. It is easier to die from the heart in Velika Gorica which is 12 kilometers from Ban Jelačić Square than in Gospić or Ilock. 30 of my fellow citizens who are on hemodialysis daily can't get the right to go to their own city to a haemodialysis station because the existing capacity in the City of Zagreb is not fulfilled until the end. Let them go to Zagreb. What are the costs of a day-to-day sanity vehicle that 30 people have to drive? And so spread out all things, and you shall see what is the harm. We propose that the headquarters of Zagreb County finally move to its territory. But not in a way that Big Gorica will take everything for herself. No, we propose that Zagreb County be the first county to show how decentralisation can function functionally in regional self-government. There is no reason why some of the services of county character should not be located in Zelina, Jastrebarska, Samobor, Ivanic City, for no reason. The mayoral headquarters and the county assembly can be in Velika Gorica, as the largest city, as the city with the best traffic connection, as in the city that can organise these services. But some other services like the County Road Authority can function out of another city without any problem. There's an opportunity to show how functional it looks. I'll only tell you one example. The centre of the Zagreb County Health Centre is not located in any home of the health of our county, but is located in Cromos Tower in Zagreb and is paid 350 thousand kuna per year for their space. And parallel to that, we need to co-finance from the budget units of local self-government funds to get another mobile emergency team more help. That's not normal. We pay huge costs for the operation of our services in the City of Zagreb we pay great costs of parking, transportation, traffic City of Zagreb. We can avoid all that. We can avoid all that. This proposal solves the problem in 1996 when Zagreb County is territorially surrounded, formed in its current composition. It goes towards meeting the reasons for the political legal nature that say each county must have its headquarters in its area, they are functional that the seat is accessible to traffic routes and accessible to a larger number of citizens. Furthermore, it is administrative to manage from its territory, its territory. It also builds on this its own abilities, specialities and identities. Zagreb County is one of the few that has developed trade marks. We work very closely on it. We are one of the most economically prosperous counties because we are working very hard to raise the overall quality of life for all citizens and we are doing so. Among the three, four of us are the most successful in this regard and there are no negligible reasons to reduce the cost of our administration's functioning. Someone said this is the pre-election story of the Croatian People's Party. I'm telling you right now whoever wants to sign this proposal instead of the CNS, we're going to give up this proposal at the same time, and it's not our authorship. This proposal has been old since 1992 when Zagreb County first formed. Unfortunately, then Gorica stayed out of it. '96. when she entered Zagreb County again, together with Zapresic then conditions were met, but all parties talked about this for pre-election purposes and HDZ, and SDP and HNS, but what is the truth? No one since '92. until today, he has not launched an official initiative, neither before the headship of a city, nor before the county assembly of Zagreb County, nor before the Croatian Assembly which can ultimately make this decision, because it is the law. When we found out, so everyone said a lot, but no one launched a legal initiative, we sat down and prepared it. I invite you, therefore, all of you from the county that are based in their area, to in accordance with the Charter of Local Self-Government solidarity with us from Zagreb County, to help us to be just as you are. Yes, and we have what you have, and that we can function normally as your counties function normally. Yes, and we have those services that are at your citizens' service, and that's the only way to understand it, and it's no different. To help us be functional because just as we are gravitating the city of Zagreb and the city of Zagreb is gravitating Zagreb County, every day the city of Zagreb eats 7 tons of carrots produced in our area without talking about all the other food produced right in our area. And let it be a blessing, not a problem, but let's not keep the problem where we can solve it. In this sense, please, as a representative of the electoral unit entering a good part of Zagreb County, understand these arguments and allow Zagreb County to develop as well as yours, to be full, to have its institutions, in its area and to return closer to its citizens. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28872	Thank you. One correction, Ms. Representative Bozica Solic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28873	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague, Beus, said in his debate on behalf of the club, is that so, he said, I will quote: "Someone said that Zagreb is the geographical centre of Zagreb County." Comrade Beus, that's not true, because you're really the first to talk about this proposal from your nobody I've ever heard him say that in this assembly. That's one thing. Secondly, connecting when you spoke, connecting the city of Zagreb and vice versa of Velika Gorica with each other, etc. Of course, the mutual co-operation from the City of Zagreb budgets is now being concluded with partner contracts for the purchase of the bus to Velika Gorica between Bandic and Picula, so I ask you to ask these people.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28874	No, it's comments, not questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28875	And if anyone asked the citizens of the city of Zagreb if they agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28876	Mrs. Solic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28877	There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28878	Club of HDZ Representatives, Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28879	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I am very inspired by Mr. Bus' performance, my colleagues. We're from the same constituency, and I've been very concerned about Big Gorica. I mean, he proves it all the time with his performances, and I'm very glad. But I'm taking some kind of right because I've lived there for 30 years, a little bit more than you, since I'm also a health care worker that I know a little bit more about the situation. But before I return to that intro, I would like to read you a part of the procedure as it was and how the Croatian Democratic Community acted in 2003 compared to your request. That was our request, then. So, in 2003, the Croatian Democratic Community officially sent a proposal to the mayor of Zagreb County, and then Mr. Jambrac was under-run, and he and the others in the coalition then decided to build a building, or whether the county headquarters would be built in Velika Gorica or Zagreb, but they decided to build in Zagreb. HDZ was then against the Zagreb County administration in the city of Zagreb. Furthermore, Croatian People's Party Councilors, of whom Mr. Jambrac, who is now working hard to make Gorica a centre, was the most fierce supporter of such a decision, together with the SDP, raised their hands for Zagreb, and the HDZ proposal neither reached the other county councilors nor on the agenda. The very fact that the HNS did not first send a request to the county to suspend its decision on the construction of the Zagreb County administration in Remetinečka, which is still in force, proves exactly your dealings with politics and collecting cheap political points. And if we look further now, there are other local self-government units in Zagreb County. They naturally gravity towards the city of Zagreb as a cultural, scientific, economic and transport centre. Both the city of Zagreb and Zagreb County are natural. Therefore, Zagreb County is surrounded by the city of Zagreb and is naturally historical, traffic and economically related to the city of Zagreb. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia estimates this hour that there is no valid reason to change the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia in such a way as to move Zagreb County headquarters to Velika Gorica. Therefore, HDZ will not support the proposal. Now something else. A columnist, a famous columnist who is not otherwise prone to the Croatian democratic community, called his birthplace, called Snakes, says listen, a journalist, says come see if I had any chance for the mayor. He says he hears what you're coming back from Zagreb to the Snakes, so you're crazy. Well, you are crazy. Therefore, Velika Gorica has Mr. Mayor and Madam President of the City Council who run the remote. The columnist explained it is as if President Mesic is ruling from Brussels and Mr Luka Bebic is ruling from Tirana. That's how this columnist who's not usually prone, is not prone at all, so it can be managed remotely. But those two have a terrible connection. You, Mr. Goran Beus, cannot separate Zagreb County from the power of the great. I asked you three years ago in my current class, Mr. Mayor, what chance we have for haemodialysis. You told me, it was in the spring, the doctors in the fall were this hemodialysis. And where is it stuck? Why didn't you do anything? I was crying for an ambulance and I proved to people that sometimes you have and six cars aren't enough, but at least we have two teams in 24 hours. We barely got it, you barely continued that separation for one team, and you failed to fight for the third. Not at all. Keep going. Well, of course, you said well, so normally the same thing, the home of health couldn't be, was somewhere in Ivanic town, so now it's in Zagreb, that it's the same illogicality. And that's what HDZ was fighting for. But we, you know you're in power, you're still in power. In Gorica, I'm talking about Velika Gorica. No, I'm sorry. I'm talking about Big Gorica. ... Next, you yourself, Mr. Beus, I'd say you're doing great. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You know all of ours, I've figured out a great culture. You know how noble men, hunters, firefighters work, you do it fantastically well. Maybe we gave in to that little thing. You promise us something that is unrealistic, which is not possible at all. Therefore, I repeat, the Croatian Democratic Community, or the Government, is terribly right that it will not allow this moment for the centre to come to Velika Gorica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28880	Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28881	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will correct the incorrect allegations of fellow MPs who said that Velika Gorica is managed remotely. Mr. Picula Velika Gorica manages the citizens' will from Velika Gorica, but that is why Mr. Schuker manages both HDZ and HSLS in Velika Gorica on remote, so in that part, perhaps even that remote control is more specific to HDZ than SDP. Thank you. ... [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28882	Okay. Did you accidentally lift the plate? I thought so. Did it feel good? ... Let that be true. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28883	Here, as my colleague Arsen has already corrected in part, so in that part, I repeat that the mayor of the town of Velika Gorica lives and resides in Velika Gorica as well as Mrs. President of the City Council. In contrast, fellow dear and respected, for example, there are a lot of smaller places where all the mayors or mayors of HDZ do not live in those places. Here's an example of the town of Obrovac. The mayor doesn't live in Obrovec, but he doesn't operate remotely either because there really is every place, regardless of which was SDP, HDZ, different coalitions in power, all places since the 1990s, especially after the release progressed. But there really God said good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28884	Now it was a correction. God said good night. I was listening. ... I can say good morning to sorrow. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Proposer, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28885	Dr. Kundic, you've said a few things that should be said on behalf of the promoter and commented. I realized that you spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, right? So you were at the HDZ Club discussing how much I know about hunters, nobles and all that. ... And the firemen. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, it's only because I, as deputy mayor and parliamentary representative of that end, am going to all these events that he calls me because I want to be with the people. I haven't seen you there often. And I know these people are really pushing for the affirmation of their end and their county. All that stuff you said and hemodialysis, that's exactly what it's all about. This is not decided by the local self-government unit, only the Croatian Health Insurance Institute can decide if the county has arguments and good, it supports such initiatives well. And I'm against any remote control of anyone. Well, that's exactly what we're talking about, we don't want Zagreb County to be run from the city of Zagreb, from Vukovar Street, from the refugee country, in order to put it in a joke in our county. If you're ashamed, come home. Well, there's none of us out there where you went. Come to us, come home. Do you need to go to work in another county, and you're elected officials? Well, that's what this is all about. Give the baby to the mother, as they would say in Dalmatia. Return the meaning of the management and functioning of Zagreb County in a way that it is where it is, and not elsewhere. We're gravitating the city of Zagreb. So the whole of Croatia is gravitating the city of Zagreb and Krapina-Zagorska County is gravitating the city of Zagreb, so there is no seat in Zagreb, but there is one in Krapina. There are some other places that are even closer to Zagreb than some parts of Zagreb County, and yet it is not the headquarters of their territory in the City of Zagreb, it is not a criterion. All Croatia is gravitating the City of Zagreb and that is what is not good. We must not continue to maintain this idea of metropolision and fear our specialities. We should be proud of her. Well, the point is, the wealth of this House is because we don't all come from the same city, we represent people from all over the country. Well, that's the meaning of the existence of the county councils, the county administrations, to be representatives of all people living in their territory and to understand their territory and not to be ashamed of it, to be proud of it. That's what this is about. Let us be in our county with our administration, to make it closer to the citizens. People don't even know where our administration is. And it's true when it comes to the administrative building, so it's a business building that will never be built because of property-legal problems. And it's true. And we at HNS had problems with this idea, because some people didn't understand the meaning of it. Two years ago, we cleared up that thing between ourselves and said this is the logic of things. This is the people's interest, this is the citizens' interest, and it must be ahead of the party's interest. And it doesn't matter which party is behind this initiative, it's important that it happens. So if that's what you thought in 2003, please don't change your mind. Be there today for the county headquarters to be in the county. And we offer Great Gorica because it has the best capacity for it. He's got the best traffic connections, he's got logic, he's got a geographical position. So please don't give it up just because the HNS suggested it. Keep up with that initiative. And let it be yours. It's no problem, but let this principle preserve, the principle of regional governance cannot come and defend itself unless it comes from its own realm. So all of Istria is gravitating the Rivers. Well, it wasn't so long ago yesterday that it was a community of municipalities based in Rijeka. But the logic of things is to be Istria in Istria and in its area. So please think again and don't take the lead on who suggested it, but what is the point of it, what is the benefit of it for all of us and your city, Dr. Kundić, from which you come and which is actually the sixth largest in the country. Well, I'm ashamed, 27 towns in the Republic of Croatia smaller than Velika Gorica have its own license plate and our city is gone. We're hiding behind someone else's. Osijek-Baranja County see how many registration areas Djakovo, Osijek, Beli Manastir. Split-Dalmatia Makarska, Imotski, Split. There's more. Ours in Osijek-Baranja quarter. Well, it's actually a community in diversity, in particular the local area. Why wouldn't there be a registration plate Ivanić-City, Vrbovac, Velika Gorica, Samobor, Jaska. Who's that bothering? After all, the director of the police promised us that he would try to resolve it when the first next amendment to the regulation that regulates it, and it hasn't changed a note of Bene since '92. A year. So let's not be ashamed of our end and the place where we live. And that's it. So please think again. Just because the government refused doesn't mean anything, because it's up to us to decide. The Zagreb County Assembly rejected yesterday because the HDZ council said so does not mean anything. But I ask you to reconsider your responsibility once more, because you carry it exactly where decisions are made in the government, in this Assembly, and in the Zagreb County Assembly itself. Now let go of our pre-election stories in Velika Gorica. Big Gorica will rule this one or that one, and that's less important because this is a permanent story. Which party will be in power in Velika Gorica should be decided by the citizens of Velika Gorica, so that it is not decided in Zagreb. But this is something else. Let no decision be made in Zagreb on the fate of Zagreb County. Well, for God's sake, it'll only create a chance for better cooperation. Think again.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28886	Thank you very much. Here's seven hours. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28887	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will correct Mr. Beus' incorrect quote, which he said, quote: “The Great Gorica will be ruled by this or by that.” The Great Gorica may be ruled by someone if he is the one, but if he rules the present one, if he behaves the authority of the current mayor he will not rule but will serve the citizens and manage the responsibility of the Great Gorica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28888	And you're right on behalf of the SDP club with a reminder that it's 1900 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28889	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. That might be good news, because then we won't stay here long enough tonight. So, colleagues and colleagues, the SDP club will support this bill in its first reading. We will vote so that this law goes into another reading and that in some ways this topic is discussed in another reading. So Zagreb County is the only county that has no centre in its territory. Zagreb County is a county that has none, therefore the registration mark of a car. Everybody's got a license plate on the PGI. Of course, it does not mean that if the centre of Zagreb County is in Velika Gorica, everyone will have a VG mark. Other cities can be given their registration mark, but in some ways, it shows symbolically in fact that at this point, although the City of Zagreb is surrounded, we can actually say drowned in the City of Zagreb and in this symbolic way. Also, Zagreb County is divided into 4 constituency units as well as the City of Zagreb. Therefore, it is also treated in a way by the county of the second row because no other county is divided into four constituencys. All of these are larger in two, and all of them are normally within one constituency. Also, Zagreb County has more than 400,000 inhabitants. There are about 130,000 daily migrants and it is one large and economically strong county and in any case capable enough in some way, we say the adult has a center on her territory. Of course, the will of citizens is where this centre should be, and Velika Gorica is two-and-a-half times the size of any other city in Zagreb County. The arguments we have heard here, they are neither the only nor the eternal, nor the unsustainable and in any case, but they have their weight, they have their weight because if the criterion of being the largest city in the city was the center of the county, then Pazin would not be the center of the County of Istrian, would be Pula. If the criteria were a transport connection, it would even be questionable if Dubrovnik was the most connected centre of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, for example from Metkovic and Obuzen to come to Dubrovnik should go across the territory of another country. And the question is, what does the county administration do? For example, the Croatian Parliament amended several laws to transfer the county's powers to "great cities". However, Dubrovnik today cannot manage its port because it is done by the county, and during the Dubrovnik Republic hundreds of years ago, it could. Also, I will mention the Municipality of Bol on Brač which cannot manage its beach even though it is a trademark of the municipality. Therefore, even though the arguments we have heard from Mr. Beus are not the only, eternal and indisputable, arguments against which we have heard cannot even be called arguments. That is why we will support this law to make Velika Gorica the center of Zagreb County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28890	Thank you. Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28891	Well, here, I've come forward to correcting the incorrect allegations. In fact, counterpart Beus claims that Bauk, excuse me, claims that Velika Gorica is two and a half times bigger than any other city. Namely, Samobor currently has about 43,000 inhabitants, so 2.5 times more, that's over 100,000 inhabitants, so he's not, but I don't blame him, a colleague isn't from this area. Anyway, can I go on and on and on?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28892	Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28893	Here, thanks again. Namely, here I was listening carefully to my colleague Beus and thinking for the first time, for the second time, for the third time and not deciding to move the seat to Velika Gorica. In fact, if the proposal was really a real proposal, then you should have some kind of poll, interview, or whatever you call it from all nine mayors, mayor with 25 municipalities, so you'd know if you wanted to, whether these cities and municipalities wanted to change their seat or not. We don't have that here. Instead, we heard, the government rejected the proposal, the county assembly rejected the proposal a few days ago. I suppose they'd say no to all cities and municipalities, too, but it doesn't matter. It's important that the seat is in Velika Gorica. And today, here's my colleague, Beus, offering a carrot, is it, as he suggested, and in tones, it seems to me, a lot of tons of carrots, while someone else suggested this proposal went with a beating forward, but God damn it, the elections are coming and we can talk whatever we want. Namely, I agree, sick metropolism, provincialism, etc. of everything there is, but we are not ashamed about the City of Zagreb that we are some province around the City of Zagreb, and I must also say that from the first day I have participated in this business of creating Zagreb County, that since the first day I have also worked extremely well together and spent hundreds and hundreds of miles with the first mayor, that I have spent 4 years in the Headship of Zagreb County, so I know very well the whole problem and I know what people want and what people think. It is true that the number of employees in Zagreb County has increased enormously in the last 8 years. I remember that, here is when Zagreb County was founded there were six employees, including the mayor. Normally, it can't work like that, that they've finally got jobs, etc. Today there's really no room there anymore, the halls are crawling with numerous employees, owned by one floor, one is rented, some are dislocated, etc. Suits, but God damn it, that's what happened. They also assured us, here's eight years of construction, here's the Sava Bridge, the old Sava Bridge that's pretty hot and pretty close to everybody, but from that nothing, we heard, property-legal, there's too much trouble that it's possible to do something there and now let's talk about the seat a little bit. Namely, the arguments for the seat are because Velika Gorica is the biggest, Velika Gorica is, I don't know, the most, the most, except for the big one. We had it in Holy Sunday, Little Gore, come on clean, but I'm not pushing it. Namely, you need to take a look at what's going on in the world. America, Germany, etc. All countries, so I don't think they have in their largest cities of headquarters. That's the only thing we should pick out the biggest city and come on, let's make headquarters in Gorica. Furthermore, if we talk a little bit about access roads, then we should ask the same colleague, Beus, who tried for 8 years not to change in time the spatial plan, i.e. to block the highway towards Sisak in every way possible. Both he and Zagreb County where they were, clearly and HNS who was in power. So today we'd already have a freeway, so maybe the argument would be more. But here, I suggest, uh, Big Gore doesn't have a building at all. So we need to build a new building. I'm reading arguments here, it'd be nice because at the same time, you might be building a building with both heads and counties, so again, there'd be some kind of crowd, and yet people wouldn't know who's who and what's what. So that's what I'm afraid of, I'm not going to be anything. For example, here is one of the old prominent cities of Samobor. Although I must say that Jastrebarsko is significantly older than Samobor because Samobor and Virovitica were cities even before Zagreb, but it doesn't matter. But here, Samobor has a huge space. They've got the area of the former military station. At this point it seems to me from the university that they wanted nothing, so all the opportunity to move there. Samobor has an extraordinary highway connection and I think a number of cities and municipalities would just vote to be the headquarters there. So, the problems in the story, the arguments are very thin, Zagreb County suffers terribly which is based in Zagreb, I don't know why she would suffer so much. As for dialysis and the like, people from the Zaprešić region would go to dialysis in Velika Gorica, not the nearby hospital in Zagreb, so I'm not sure that these are the arguments. As for first aid, we've all planted our backs a little bit, and the first aid must be working well. I don't think this proposal should be accepted at least not before most cities and municipalities come forward with the proposal and we work here against someone's will really doesn't make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28894	Thank you. Replica Mr. Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28895	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. One of the arguments my colleague Markovanovic mentioned was the problem that the government that was in the county or the government that was in Gorica is guilty of not having an highway, so it is guilty of not having this or that, so it is one of the arguments why Zagreb County should not be provided with a seat on Zagreb County territory. I don't think the political criteria of government behavior can possibly be a criterion for selecting the location, the place, the headquarters of a county. And we can also be politically outwitted that the Croatian government wanted to build a highway for Sisak, it would have been built. Therefore, no bodies of local self-government nor the bodies of the local government of Gorica cannot be responsible that the highway is not built. We can outsmart ourselves, get used to it, but simply understand, the burden of responsibility is always borne by whoever is responsible for the construction of the highway, and yet it is the Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28896	Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28897	Well, here's what I have to say to my esteemed colleague Linic that I didn't even mention who was in power where no city is because Zagreb County is big, so there is, but I mentioned who was responsible for stalling quite a highway construction because I was also at the ministry, we were looking, we watched. So the state needs to be a legalist and to be a legalist must also get a building permit. In order to obtain a building permit, the highway must fit into both Velika Gorica and Zagreb County, and the reason may be that they did not determine the locations for the dumps and similar things there but deliberately stalled with something that went very quickly afterwards. The moment Zagreb County decided where it would be and the permit came. So it could have been a long time ago but it wasn't because it was playing with plastic baggers and stuff. Dear God, every authority has its own joy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28898	One time one came to me when I was a lawyer to file an insult suit that one offended him. I say what he says. He told me you're a legalist. I say it's an insult to you. Final review Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28899	I wish we had had the opportunity to hear a lot more arguments and a little less political assessments, a little less of this political guy's assembling. If it is a fact that the late construction of the Zagreb-Vika Gorica-Sisak highway is then it is harmful for all of us and believe that the most damage to the citizens of Zagreb County, the citizens of Velika Gorica and all those through whose end the highway will pass. The highway is very late. There have been several changes in the implementation plans. The last time this was done was when the last budget was adopted not so long ago when all deadlines were re-routed by six to eight months. However, Mr. Markovanovic and Mrs. Roksandić are one truth that you can't because you've been shouting a little from the bench, you can't kill it. The Zagreb-Vika Gorica-Sisak highway is built only in the area of the town of Velika Gorica. Not in the area of Zagreb, not in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County, only in the area of my town. And that says enough. Furthermore, I'm sorry we haven't crossed arguments if you say these aren't good. Why didn't you offer better? Which you have not defined the economic criteria, the economic data that will speak otherwise, which you have not proved that this idea does not stand in traffic, that it is functionally not standing, that it does not appear in a folk sense, that it does not conform to the European Charter of Local Self-Government. We didn't hear any of that. But what did we hear? That the Croatian Democratic Community had until recently seriously represented the need to move Zagreb County headquarters from Zagreb to Velika Gorica but that it had recently given up probably because it was now the first time that it had come into a position to face the fact that it was decided here rather than at pre-election meetings, not at social homes, not at party meetings. This is where it's decided. This is the only place where laws are passed in the Republic of Croatia. Now that we're here, when we meet on the moon, let's see who's in, who's in. Thank you very much for saying you're against it. Now we finally solved that enigma, whether you meant the truth or whether you meant what you've been saying so far or thinking what you're saying right now. I highly doubt that you are now not being honest and that you would fool yourself and that you would vote for this proposal if you didn't think so. So, thank you very much for your honesty, I appreciate that. You don't think we're ready as a county, that we're not mature as a county, that we didn't deserve as a county. You underestimate capacity, needs, possibilities. That's not good. It's not good. And from that my party may have what cheap political point but the citizens of my county can only have damage and that's more worrying me. Each of us has the right to represent the political option his party belongs to, it's not at all controversial, it's our duty, on that platform they chose us to come here. But we have to stick to some things that are above party interests and how much we are able to do that will be less foreign, primordial, temporary and more will be turned to what's called our children's interest. Of course no one from Zapresic should go on dialysis to Velika Gorica. Well, that would be crazy to say. But nobody from Zapresic should go to Zagreb if he can do it at home, if it is economically profitable, logically, justifiable and healthy. Same for Gorica, same for Ivanić-City. That's what it's all about being close to the citizens, being physically close. We've cleared up the misunderstandings on your soul. Most parliamentarians will make a decision, no one else. I ask you once again to think carefully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28900	Thank you. Two corrections by Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28901	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I have to correct my colleague Beuss' incorrect assumption that the road is only being built in the Zagreb County or its county as he said. It is built in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County. On 7 April, my colleague Beus will complete the tender for the last share, wait a moment for the last section of the Sisak-Zagreb highway. Unfortunately, really because of everything that's been going on around Velika Gorica, the road is running late, but really because of what's happened. 60% of the land is bought in Sisak and Sisak-Moslavina County for 20 million kuna and will start building, physical road construction, but the road must have a project, the road must have purchased land. So the road is built and it's real. I'm really sorry, and I trust you now, which in 2000, that road was taken off the construction program, and yet in this term of this government, it's a reality. Walk to Sisak, in Busevec, which belongs to Veliko Gorica, the town of Velika Gorica, it is already on the exit of the state highway. And I trust you that together I will invite you, in a month's time, to the city of Sisak, to open a new highway construction site and that we will connect it by the end of next year with Lekenik and end that highway in the term of office of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28902	Okay. And Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28903	Well, here, I have to react to my colleague's incorrectly hardness, and we haven't seen any arguments, and he's kind of made any possible arguments. That's one thing. I think we've said a whole series of things here and my colleagues and I that are in favor of this proposal that it's not a good idea. Second, it turns out we're having second thoughts again. I mean, I'm the one I have to say he didn't ask for the first time, right? But who is more, how to trust the Proposer, if until the other day he was against having the seat in Velika Gorica, and now he's in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28904	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the Proposal for a Law amending the Employment and Rights Intermediation Act during unemployment and afterwards with the Proposal of the Law on the Prolongation of Payments of Residential Loans in 2009. I hope 1:00 is the vote. If there's anything on top of these two, by 13.00, then there goes point 19.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-12-0.u28905	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. It was the first reading, P.Z. No. 181 Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HNS. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote the conclusion in accordance with the proposals of the parliamentary working bodies and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which reads: The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the areas of the county, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia is not accepted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal has been adopted by 71 votes, 3 abstentions and 29 against. Proposal for a law amending the law on employment mediation and rights during unemployment. It was the first reading, P.Z. No. 253. Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote the conclusion in line with the proposals of the parliamentary working bodies and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which reads: The draft law amending the Employment Intervention and Rights Act is not adopted during unemployment. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposal was adopted by 73 votes in favour, nothing abstentions and 28 against.
