ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32705	... MPs. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Today we present the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act, and I would like to brief you on the basic amendments that we are proposing this way. But let me introduce that consumer protection is indeed one of the basic gains of our democratic society as well as the dialogue we have and that should be promoted every day with representatives of NGOs, consumer protection associations. Because this is one of those laws where absolutely everyone who at any time, any day we go to the store, we go to pick up loans, buy cars or something. This is one of those laws where each of us is absolutely recognized as a consumer and this is a law that protects and guides us to our rights as well as to our obligations as consumers, so all of us who at any time behave in our daily lives. In this segment, consumer protection has indeed been recognised as one of the priority areas that needs to be systematically developed which has been happening intensively since 2003. Indeed, the consumer protection system has evolved significantly over the past six years. That, as well as in our intensive negotiations with the European Union and its Member States, we are positively assessed, i.e. the commitment we show in the continuous improvement of consumer protection systems is positively assessed. It is one of the chapters that is open among the first, which is of course before closing. And often in the European Union, especially in the frameworks of a forum where we meet with other institutions responsible for consumer protection as well as at the level of NGOs, Croatia is often highlighted as a real engine not only of the region but also of, but of, the current full member of the European Union in the consumer protection system segment. And I am glad to say that in this segment we act as if we are already in the European Union. What I would also like to say, and teaching on the dialogue that we have with both NGOs and consumer counselling, is that today the consumer is not only statistics, that today the consumer is not only a figure, but the consumer is a regulator of the development of the economy, it affects the business policy of the economy, the real incentive environment on the market, it is critical of what appears as an offer on the market and in some ways the consumer, and we are all acting as a market correction. Since 2003, this law has been in force and this law represents our reality, let me briefly outline the changes that we propose to this final bill. First, it is certainly the activation of collective consumer protection as an effective mechanism for the protection of consumer collective interests in the process before the Trade Court. The collective protection of consumers can be described as a domino effect. Namely, one claim brought by one damaged party, or one consumer who sees in his purchase, or notices unfair business practice triggers a collective lawsuit, triggers a single lawsuit that has a collective erga omnes effect. So, tomorrow or the day after the final judgment of the Trade Court, everyone who comes into the same situation and is potentially covered by such unfair business practice will not actually feel it. One consumer with one lawsuit will cause a collective effect that such unfair business practice no longer applies. I'm going to give a concrete example. For example, if banks in their consumer credit contracts have a provision that is found unfair to consumers only once and through the regulator responsible for banks initiates a collective action and succeeds in its claim, after the power of all banks, regardless of the fact that only one is sued, all banks will have to remove such a provision from similar consumer contracts, i.e. a consumer loan contract, which the court has rightly found to constitute unfair business practice. We also sought to define more closely the basis of a broad demand for our consumers to highlight the retail price as well as the price for the unit of product measures, i.e. the service provided in such a way that this retail price is highlighted on the shelf and on the product, if possible. Of course, we have a series of products that are too thin to highlight a retail price, as well as a series of products that, due to their storage, cannot technically withstand a price sticker because, for example, it is the cooled products that are stored in cooled windows, i.e. in glaciers, peeling off in the middle of the way these things are kept. In agreement with the Chamber of Commerce, with the Chamber of Commerce as well as with NGOs, we will make a regulation where we will very clearly specify which products, which is a product palette, assorted to which we will highlight retail prices. Always individually, in which the price will be displayed in another way solely because of the way these products are kept, or because of its size. We also made one substantive harmonisation of the provisions of Article 5 relating to the material disadvantages on the product as well as the guarantee of the correctness of the sold matter. We have implemented coordination in this segment with the European Union Directive and have made a clearer link to the Law on Mandatory Relations on the issue of guarantees. However, this raises one question, which is the time limit within which a particular product must be replaced, if the consumer sees that it is a malfunction, i.e. a flaw on the product. We have been struggling with this deadline for a long time, we have left a reasonable deadline because it simply shows that the technical complexity of the replacement, i.e. the repair of certain products simply cannot be generically determined for absolutely all products that should be repaired at one time in our households, i.e. in our parking lots if they are cars. We have also made product notification interventions, and in this segment we continue to make product information available to our consumers, and I am pleased to say that in cooperation with NGOs for consumer protection we have chosen a transitional period for keeping the country of origin that will continue to stand out on products in the Republic of Croatia. We've also set a penalty for a trader who doesn't have a prominent product notice. It now stands at 100,000 kuna. In fact, so far there have been 200 thousand kunas, but in practice it has proved to be hard to charge, especially under the current conditions of the difficult business of traders under the conditions of today's economic crisis. We also further determine how a consumer protection counselling centre works. In all the four institutes established, nine co-workers are currently employed in public information and assistance jobs. The funds for the work of the consultant are secured from our budget and we continue to anticipate the possibility of co-financing of the work of the consultant, but we also ask the local community to participate in co-financing of the work of the consultant. There's been a lot of changes, some of them nomotechnic, some of them really are essential. Further harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union is being carried out. We think that, here is this proposal to amend and supplement the Consumer Protection Act leads to one step higher, one step higher in consumer protection standards, regardless of what is the law that is in line with the acquis of the European Union. What is most important is that our consumers and these amendments and additions recognise the protection of their rights, i.e. the breadth and ways and modes of protection of their rights through courts, or through the State Inspectorate. In that segment, hoping that you had enough time to study this law, I thank you for your attention and, of course, I am standing open to all your questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32706	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32707	Honored Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State with Associates, Honored Madam and Gentlemen Representatives. A series of suspicious quality goods on the shelves of our shops, from chocolates and detergents to computers and cars, has been ignored. It is a cruel fact that most products imported into our country are not the same quality as in Western markets. Maybe it's that paradigm story about a detergent that illustrates perfectly the fact that liberal capitalism from the west can trick us into making life more complicated and, in some cases, even endanger us. Here, even the Government in its assessment of the situation in the adoption of this law stressed that the awareness of traders in the Member States of the European Union is higher than in the Republic of Croatia. So today in the Morning List we read that in certain cities, real guerrilla consumer organisations have been formed to check the quality of services that can be obtained on the market, whether invoices are issued etc. And they don't dare to act publicly precisely because of the pressures that can occur and the very big consequences. However, even the Croatian consumer remains in shock when he realizes that he is treated as less valuable, or as a second-row consumer. It is also terrible that this applies to the whole country, so when it is said in the West that the goods exported to Croatia have a "good for Croatia" label. This raises many questions why people in the past even went to the Homeland War and were willing to die. That Ariel detergent is far lower quality than Western, they confirmed at the end and chemical experts, as well as the Zagreb Municipal Court. Praise is a valuable fact that we have a good quality infrastructure and well-trained laboratories, testing laboratories, accredited laboratories that can do analysis by order of the manufacturer or by official duty. This is, for example, the Institute of Public Health as well as many other accredited laboratories. However, they have neither the obligation nor the permission to make public the results they have come to. We are witnessing daily consumer fraud that takes place in our nearest environment and even through public media funded by taxpayers, such as HRT. And the public media television advertised nadirism, miracle weight loss products, selling a miracle charm talisman for happiness, offering credits and financial services to banners and tram stations without actually asking ourselves what the state government and financial inspection is doing because it is easy to give up and a good part of the potential tax. Furthermore, in the conditions of crisis and hard life when many desperate people push to the edges resort not only to alcohol but also to cubes we do not find such an example in the developed countries of Western democracy warnings on gambling machines or lotteryes how minimal and incredibly small the possibilities of any gain are. The process of implementing or implementing part of the European Union's legal gain in the field of consumer protection in the Croatian legal system by adopting European rules on the behaviour of all market participants has begun with the adoption of the Consumer Protection Act in 2003 and was a fundamental law protecting consumer rights. By this law, the Republic of Croatia has provided its citizens with certain protection of their rights and interests in the purchase of products and services. However, at the time of the adoption of this law, the Directive on unfair business practice was completely new and as such could not be incorporated into the legislation of most EU Member States nor in this Consumer Protection Act adopted by the Racan coalition government in 2003. It is not surprising, therefore, that certain problems and certain areas under this applicable law have been identified and need to be further harmonised and, in particular, as regards the provisions of the laws which determine collective consumer protection, unfair business practice, distance sales of financial services, thus shering even selling at a distance and other segments. Unfortunately, in many segments, this proposal, which is worse for consumers than the law so far, leaves, for example, the applicant knowingly leaving the possibility that the retail price does not have to be written on the product or packaging if it is written on a sales post or shelf. It's a step backwards, which is visible from the old law of Article 8(8), and we're witnessing what it looks like in practice, you go there to some discount, there are products on shelves, underneath it you can't even find in madness which note refers to which particular product. First, because it is not systematically complex, and second, because these prices are often written in microscopic letters, and then a person must have a mirror or at least increase. In addition, the decision in this proposal of the law is contrary to Directive 98/6 of the European Community of 1998 which requires that the price is on the product and, possibly, the unit price does not have to be highlighted if it is some kind of rinfuze, etc. As regards the making of laws in the assessment, it is also said that the Institute of collective consumer protection will enable individual persons who have a legitimate interest in collective protection to press charges against those traders or their marketing interests on their behalf and in the interests of all consumers, for example, the Consumer Protection Association, which is contrary to consumer protection regulations. It is strange, therefore, that this extremely important law, which in certain cases can save people's lives and fates, is adopted by emergency procedure, with only formal participation of the organisations that received the materials only the day before the meeting with the representatives of the Government, and despite their urgent consideration of these materials and examinations of their proposals were rejected. For example, out of 50 proposals from the Union of Consumer Associations, virtually none have been adopted. Does not one of the fifty proposals of the Croatian Consumer Protection Association and the Union of Consumer Protection Associations deserve to enter this law. Unfortunately, this Consumer Protection Act is a law that protects traders more so as not to have extra costs and that they wouldn't have to accidentally hire a new employee and an unemployed citizen. Thus, traders will not need to place prices on food products, the declarations will continue to be unread and written in small letters that can only be read by state inspectors and they probably increased with help. The trader does not have to give a tight interest on consumer advances but rather it is about the interest the bank makes on a three-month-old savings, which basically gives the trader an effective profit of 10%. The trader shall be allowed to fix the product within the appropriate time limit and no appropriate time limit shall be specified in the regulations. It could be a year if the trader can prove it that way. The trader is not obliged to have a book of complaints which would be proof that the consumer sent the complaint, not that the consumer must by letter, at a price of 15 kuna, complain that, for example, the cashier damaged it for 10 kuna. On the declaration or description of the product the size of the letter true God must not be less than 3 millimeters but also 3 millimeters, it is quite the same microscopic. In order to also avoid the extension of public services by at least public parking facilities, building managers, service providers such as banks, etc. This law did not allow consumers to charge services which were not performed but not for consumers, nor for consumers to be able to suspend public services without a judicial verdict. Thus, consumers buy some services, such as prepaid cards for mobile phones that have a limited duration. Or Zet's tram ticket if she doesn't use it until the next pick-up she's no longer valid. The legislator was unable to listen to associations and, for example, prohibit the sending of advertising and promotional messages via telephone, SMS, Internet and other means of communication if the recipient did not explicitly approve it with the advertising organisation. And now we're witnessing that someone is calling us on the phone and offering us certain services, and you're wondering how they got to the phone number in the first place and why they're offering you if you didn't agree to that. In fact, any consumer who wants to be sent promotional messages can ask for it. Well, who loves it? That's how they're going to look for those messages that interest him, and they're not going to get any garbage and spam. This law does not prevent a trader providing a prepaid service from limiting the time limit to which the service should be used. In the sense of this law, public services are not considered public and cable television services, public parking and garage services, building management, services provided by insurance companies etc. This law does not protect consumers from quasi auction sales, since it does not condition the product to highlight the price that was before auction and after. This law does not protect consumers when contracts to buy large products such as apartments, cars, apartment equipment. Because the buyers of the sale are not in an equal position. The trader is fully protected, while the buyer is completely unprotected. We're witnessing cases that people have paid apartments without housing being built, and then you're being tried for years, etc. etc. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, we should not be guided by logic when adopting this law “better than nothing” but by this law should also be adopted in the third reading. It should be re-processed by substance, but this time with true participation and really real input by consumer protection organisations that are probably the most invited to protect us from bad goods and services on the Croatian market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32708	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32709	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Secretary of State with Associates. So, a little bit should in general maybe talk about the situation before and now. In fact, let us remember until a few years ago, however, it was consumers who were almost unprotected and then a major action was launched which was normally encouraged by the European Union by its directives, a whole series of directives that directly favour consumers. And the Ministry of Economy has created a very strong team that cares about it and I think that today consumers feel much more protected than before. In fact, let us also remember all possible ways in which consumers were played, cheated. It's happening today. Today we may be talking about recession, we're talking about the state of trade, we're talking about the survival of trade, and I think that traders are already taking for an excuse their poor condition, less sales and the like. And now we can do whatever we want. They're missing from the big store, and the code-reading machines are gone. Let's remember here and there when a house, a new big department store, was built, people walked, so where they weren't sure there might be a wrong price on the shelf, they came, they said. He's almost gone or gone. So there's a bit of a cut-off consumer. By the way, consumers, I'm saying this between, election time, are probably the biggest party here, everyone's spending. And the fact that we all need to keep care and normal consumers safe. In doing so, many prominent individuals have also helped to establish associations. Here, first of all, I must mention to Mr. Ilija Rkman, Mrs. Jadranka Kolarevic, our colleague and the Committee for Decision-making on the conflict of interest which has been pressured here and on Croatian television, together with the ministry, to do this to start a very popular and watched show happening on TV. It's a consumer code. So people are very happy to see examples of people, to whom consumers are deceived. So one good show, and I think many after that show have realized that they actually need to change something about the way they buy. In fact, this bill certainly creates a sense of satisfaction in us because we see that the law goes into those details that may have been, which have not been defined. And we need to start by looking at the establishment of a collective consumer protection institute. Here, this collective protection defines in more detail the process of protecting the collective interests of consumers. In fact, such a system that protects consumer rights is also used in the Member States of the European Union. Because it should be stressed that the awareness of traders in the Member States of the European Union is at such a level that most situations are sufficient to alert the authorised persons of the trader to behave in an unauthorized manner resulting in the termination of such behaviour. It's normal for us all to warn traders, to ask them one way or another, and they answer, so you see, you have prices. It's true that just before his colleague said that prices are a whole series of prices densely placed next to each other, up, down. Normally there are products that can be marked, which cannot be marked. In fact, we are increasingly witnessing that partial goods, here is a large house in Zagreb, at least I notice simple sales now already in pieces. So let's say I don't know, let's go head cabbage piece this, this or that. So we don't know how hard it is, how much it is. We only see a head salad or something like that so much and so much, I think it's certainly wrong because people can't compare prices to other sellers at all, I can't see what that price is. So, with this collective interest, the protection of the collective interest of consumers has no need to initiate court proceedings, and this is in any case beneficial to both traders and consumers. In fact, we know that the court is overcrowded anyway, and there's a lot of good will that can be done. The amendments and additions to the Consumer Protection Act provide for a prior written warning to the trader, noting that, if it ceases to act inappropriately within a certain period, it will be against him to initiate proceedings for a consumer protection collective. In addition, before the start of this procedure, the trader is also given the possibility to stay in front of the peace centre. Therefore, if certain traders previously warned continue to behave inappropriately in a way that violates consumer rights, they will be subject to collective consumer protection proceedings before a trade court. So again, we clearly prefer the peace, we prefer good will, we prefer that if the customer buys a product that is not responding at that time, let the box, the picture, the declaration and the like, that the traders change the product anyway, give it back the money and so on, so to avoid court proceedings here. Although the amendments and additions of the Consumer Protection Act prescribe the initiation of this procedure, the emphasis should be placed on prevention, i.e. traders should be more aware of their consumer rights and their obligations as well as their responsibilities for acting on the market, which ultimately goes in favour of both. In fact, the purpose of collective consumer protection is to protect all consumers, with a ruling against a particular trader or a group of traders for the benefit of one consumer against inappropriate action by a trader, and all traders are required to prohibit such action against consumers on the market. Clearly, there is a mechanism to be found here to warn other traders of such a verdict and I think it will be very helpful to better trade. The dynamics of this area, as well as the great competition on the market, unfortunately leads to the fact that certain wanted traders behave in an unauthorized way with greater profits, and that their behaviours are increasingly taking on the character of unfair business practices. These amendments and additions to the Consumer Protection Act will clearly define such behaviours by means of provisions on safeguarding aggressive business practices and will also be properly sanctioned through inspection supervision as well as through collective consumer protection proceedings in a commercial court. I personally believe that in this competition, in this situation where trades are found to be very careful that traders do not come out in a bad way, but I say, any warning will certainly come in handy to stop the innovations of consumer fraud. As regards price emphasis, it is necessary here to particularly commend the adoption of a regulation that will regulate the emphasis on retail prices and prices for the unit of measures. Since the adoption of the first Consumer Protection Act of 2003, they have sought to find appropriate solutions that would satisfy both consumers and traders. In order to improve consumer information compared to the price of the product it purchases, not wanting to burden traders with additional costs and respecting all the difficulties they face today in this difficult period of recession, it is necessary to find the most optimal solution regarding the obligation to highlight the price of the product both for consumers and traders. So, the basis for adopting this rule in this law exists and I believe that this is exactly how the desired goal is achieved, and this is an optimal solution related to the emphasising of prices. In fact, we all know from practice, in addition to what I said that goods are starting to sell into pieces, that it's not possible to put the price on a frozen product, then on very small products. In fact, when we talk about a little, we all kind of look at big department stores because there's a lot of wheelchairs, but there's a whole series of small shops where small products aren't packed into bigger bags with codes and there's a lot harder to get by than I say in these department stores, and there's a really transparent price emphasis. Because normally, on a frozen product, the price goes off. The result is that the consumer does not know how much the product costs, and it is similar in bakery products. Often and in bakerys, we see that one price is down, and another bread is up, that it says white bread, and I don't know, there's some bread up there or something like that, and then the merchants have to explain, you know, we didn't have room on this shelf, so we put it on this shelf. So there are countless ways. By noting the price for the unit of measures, in this case the price is, for example, I don't know one kilogram of cookies. It should be in kilograms everywhere, however, we have some products that have 25 decagrams, 37.5 decagrams, so various products, and you can't see on them how much they cost a kilo of these products. So by comparing different packages, that's impossible. If you have more and more frequent that the more quality dry meat products expire by 10 decagrams. So people don't know if it's a kilo, if it's 10 decagrams of something, so there should be definitely a price in kilograms. You can see that from those big papers we get every day in the house. In addition, when it comes to law enforcement itself, the applicant has made an amendment to Article 147 which, after the supervision and determination of the infringements of the provisions of this law, could make it possible for the trader to correct the deficiency within 8 days. In the two-year application of the applicable law, an increasingly widespread phenomenon has been observed by individual traders, even on purpose the playout of such legal provisions and the use of this benefit of non-sension, which ultimately adversely affected the proper protection of consumer rights. This is why an amendment has been proposed in such a way that the trader operating in the same sales facility or place, and only if it is minor economic offences, i.e. less harmful to consumer rights and when the trader commits them for the first time, is not immediately sanctioned, but is given the opportunity to complete this irregularity. In those cases, the trader would be penalized in repeated violations. However, this kind of convenience can only be granted to a trader once within 12 months, which means that not all honor can be violated by rights and say I did not know. So a trader can try or do something like that once in a while, but within 12 months, he can't do it again. In view of the fact that, in accordance with European practice, traders who deliberately violate legal obligations are subject to very restrictive penalties, the position of increased prevention only for those traders who are in breach of the legal provisions because of their necessity and who are given the opportunity to have a lack of correction and to be sanctioned only in repeated infringements. Finally, the club will normally adopt this law and I think that the adoption of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act for Consumers of the Republic of Croatia will be on an even higher level with the intention that Croatian consumers will enjoy all rights as well as consumers of the European Union. Here I must once again commend the economy ministry team, which is together with co-workers from other ministries, organised a 2007 consumer year. Here, I had the honor of being on that board. I think it's a lot to get, that in all the media, it's quite nicely presented and that in fact, in that way, our consumers can say very well aware that they know who to turn to when they're eventually cut off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32710	Thank you. Ms. Tamara Obradović, Mazal, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32711	Thank you very much. I believe that you are all and as far as I have managed to see the mailing list all clubs in the Assembly have received an identical petition, or a proposal for those issues that specifically the associations want and in this way to find their place in the Consumer Protection Act. Well, here's what I'm using the opportunity to sort out some of the terms and also the ways that we've done these questions with the law and why exactly that way. You mentioned a retail price that must be on every product point. Therefore, the original request of the Croatian Consumer Protection Association is that the price be retail on each product point. What does that mean? For example, I have to admit that natural sciences are not my background, but I can imagine that one of these bottles that we don't advertise unnecessarily standing in a cooled window is supposed to be wet. The retail price that is nice to this packaging is peeled off within a few seconds, minutes, I'm certainly wrong, but at least as far as the minute goes, but then it's freaking out. Put a retail price on each individual bottle as well as on every egg or don't give God to every piece of bread. The idea of someone selling me bread that has something on it is something that I definitely skip at the beginning. As far as the price goes, here's an example from life. Pelens come in different packages, different manufacturers and even the same manufacturer has different packs for individual diaper models. You have 54, 44 and 66 packs. And you can't make a real comparison of the price between these diaper packs. Therefore, there is a partial or unit price and you see that one diaper actually costs 2 kuna, the other diaper will cost 1.90 for that child's age and it is precisely regulated by this law that even when the same product comes in different packages, that you, based on the unit price for each individual product, have this additional option to compete and not to calculate the price of the product yourself. The retail price on each product also means that every product as small as it is, here I have a typical female product, it's tweezers. She's a little girl, and I don't get to wrap a retail price on every tweezer because they come around like this most often outside of some extra packaging space. I can't physically wrap them on tweezers. So we tried to agree with everyone, and with NGOs, with the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce to agree, define by means of a sublegal act that the basic thought of a guide is that each product has a retail price point where it is, of course, impossible because of the way the product is held and kept, that is, given its size to try to concentrate that this price is displayed somewhere on the shelf next to the product. Therefore, the intention is indeed to allow the consumer to be informed of the price and of the individual or partial price. As far as action is concerned, it's not the same thing as downsizing, and it's not true that when you enter a store that has something on action that you don't see. These products under the current law must be especially isolated, there must be a special label on them that indicates action and in the lenses that traders give you must be especially indicated on these lenses that it is an action. So at this point it's absolutely impossible to enter the store and that the products that are on action are not clearly highlighted. This is already in practice today, and when the reduction is, the action is not a reduction, then on each product you have the price that was before the reduction and the price that today is on the downturn by as many percentages as the reduction amounts and the isolated products on the action above have the mark, have the price for this action and it is very clearly visible. Otherwise, Mr Markovanovic referred to the evolution of consumer protection as soon as possible and as far as possible today. It was not possible before to return the product you bought at the discount if you saw that he had some flaw. It happened to me and my husband this weekend that we bought a suit, that that suit was on a discount, that it had any damage and we could return it within 15 minutes because it took us about that long to notice that the suit had a mistake. You couldn't have imagined that a few years ago. You just didn't have a situation like this, people were able to buy a product at a discount, that product knew how to make a mistake, and just because it was on a discount, it couldn't come back. You don't have a situation like this today, and here I have experienced it in my own skin and thanks, of course, to the great work and to what we do. As far as the reasonable deadline is concerned, I won't look back on everything, I believe I'll get a chance later on. As far as a reasonable deadline is concerned. There are things that can be fixed within an hour, there are things that can be fixed within five days, but there are technical demanding things that can't be fixed in 15 days especially if the whole supply flow of the spare part has to come somewhere even from another continent. If we put a unique deadline for absolutely all products, you'll have two absurd situations. The first is that it will not be possible to maintain it at all because the supply direction of the spare part and the way it is provided will simply take too long. On the other hand, you will have for simple repairs an absurd situation where something that can be removed as a flawed product within five hours or one day the trader may wait until the absolutely last fifteen days to do so. Even a reasonable deadline is not the most ideal solution in itself. However, having a solution where for absolutely technical demanding products to set a 15-day deadline is actually unsustainable. In fact, in conversations with repairers, talking to people who go through the situation every day, the inevitable situation is that such products are repaired within 15 days. So one fixed deadline for an absolutely common denominator of all products is almost impossible to determine. A few things you listed entering the section regarding the Law on the Communist Economy. Likewise, tariff fixings are based on the unit of local self-government. This law just can't solve that part. However, here is the follow-up to the debate, and I am sure that I will be able to answer that part as well. I thank you for your attention, and I hope that this information has helped to clarify certain concepts a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32712	Thank you. I'm informing the clubs that the vote on the crossed agenda points would be today at 13.00 hours. And since we won't have a session next week, then I'm asking you to make sure that we still vote this crossed part of the agenda. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32713	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We have the Law on Trade, and we need to repair the Consumer Protection Act. As we are on our way, given that in Croatia we have the Law on Private Detectives, we will probably have to pass the Protection Act from private detectives, especially those from Germany. It is likely that the Croatian Helsinki Committee will carefully examine this situation, so it will suggest some steps in this direction. In my debate on these amendments to the Consumer Protection Act, I will also explain several of my amendments. I think they're extremely important, so depending on the way the amendments are made, I'll make a decision whether I support the bill or not. My first remark concerns Article 2 of the amendment, i.e. the obligation of the trader to, by choice of the consumer, fix, replace, return the money. And I agree that setting an x-day deadline of 80, 15 and 20 in some cases is possible, in some cases not. But it's possible something else. Namely, a trader's obligation to replace an invalid product is always the first obligation to be present. In the existing law, it is. The consumer could choose to ask the trader to replace the invalid product. 90% of cases are referred to by traders for a warranty period and send products for repair. However, what is not in the law, which would be extremely good, and the State Secretary will surely accept it as a good business practice, especially in the members of the European Union, and that if the trader sends the product for repair, he is obliged to give the consumer a replacement product. If the phone's broken and you're sending it to repair, give me another one. If the car's wrong, you send it to repair and order spare parts, then give me the replacement car. This particular obligation has also affected the consumer’s trader’s speed change and concerns about improving the wrong product by the consumer as quickly and better as possible. Therefore, when we talk about the deadlines for the elimination of deficiencies, then that deadline has a function in the sense that the trader is bound to give the replacement product if it has been repaired. And that's common in the European Union. The second is Article 6 of the amendment and the supplement relating to the price of the product. I know you can't put price tags on a nail, like how much it costs a kilo or a piece not just tweezers. There are therefore a number of products sold in bulk. At school, we used to call it products in bulk. I don't know what it's called now. But the definition of the obligation to place prices on the product has always excluded the bulked state or products sold in bulk, so it can remain today. But it's interesting that even Directive 98/6 EC of '98. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. But that when new members of Europe enter Europe who are mass importing especially food products according to these new members have some other criteria and criteria. And this problem of emphasising prices on the product is the strongest in the food section. Textile, shoes, technical means there are far fewer problems. Therefore, I believe that the provision to highlight the price on the product must be a rule with the exception of goods which are in a bulky state where it is simply not possible to do so. The third point of view concerns Article 9 of the amendment, which speaks of the product notice. These amendments provide for the amendment of Article 17 and the erasure of the existing Article 18 in the law which defined the product notice on the product or product notice accompanying the product. It's not the same thing. There is a notice printed on the product or product notice may be in a printed leaflet, paper, any other way to be given to the consumer when the product is purchased. According to these amendments, the product notice by me is not sufficiently defined, and if I were to be rude, I would say there is only one provision missing, that the law says that the notice of the product imported from the European Union to Croatia must not be legible, and save God written in Croatian. Why? Mandatory assistance from older consumers from the date of entry into force of this law when they go into shopping must be increased, at least increased, because without an increase, you will not be able to read the composition, content or time-limit of use, nor are the country of origin of any product coming from the European Union where real maherers are made up of goods which are not intended for their market, but specifically products, package and equip products for the market outside the European Union. I simply cannot understand what the request of the European Commission negotiators to ask Croatia to delete the provisions or such provisions that will not be mandatory notice of the product in Croatian and that can be read. It protects the interests of its manufacturers and traders, to be clear right away. There is also a provision in Article 6 of the amendment and addition that the trader must highlight the price so that it does not damage the product and that is a good provision because indeed sometimes the label and the label can damage the product, but I would kindly ask, the business practice of our traders is that the price label is mandatory, especially on food products it goes to that part of the product notice where the period of use is up to, two points and now the price label is going, that it does not damage the product and the product notice. I must admit that I forgot that amendment in writing, I forgot my Madam Secretary of State. You did well this time, but there's time for someone to write it in a hurry. Here, colleague Doric may take over. Just to cover up until when the product is valid is a rude practice of our merchants. Furthermore, I propose imposing sanctions on traders who harass consumers with addressed or particularly unaddressed printed material which has been prohibited by law, but has not been sanctioned, I hope you will accept it. And I end up next, there are 4.5 lawyers and 15 agencies in Croatia. Through them we protect different categories of citizens or parts of society. In Croatia there are 4.5 million consumers, this is the most numerous group interested in this area, and I believe that Croatia should establish a consumer protection agency, give it the same importance as other agencies with at least 4 regional offices because we are a tourist country in which 2.3 million citizens and countries come annually where it is perfectly normal for 24 hours a day 365 days a year to receive advice, instruction, address of possible complaints, complaints and how to resolve any dispute with the trader. Secondly, if not because of them, and then because of the citizens of Croatia, I think that this provision that the Consumer Protection Association will set up consultations that will be financed from the state budget is not good, it will not produce results, as well as existing consultations have remained so anonymous and secret, that I do not believe that 10 citizens have managed to get to them and any help from them. So, in addition to this failure of an important amendment that price must not cover the time limit of use on the product declaration, the other amendments I have made, and there will likely be some others who will decide on my vote for or against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32714	Thank you very much. It is next for the debate of MP Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32715	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Consumer protection, this concept has been introduced to us since 2003. However, as time progresses, consumer protection is not better because traders are increasingly aggressive and the state is giving them more and more credit. That is, not everything that the existing law has predicted so far is sanctioned. Why is that? Because the state and through this example shows that it is weak to the strong and strong to the weak. The wise state protects consumers because consumers are all and thus very simply enables, first and foremost, associations dealing with this problem to play for it very important and important, I would say the most important role, which is the social role, especially in the poorer part of the population, which is often a large part of its income in order to buy a product. And then what does he buy? With our consumer protection issue, I would say that it is much more important than in developed countries, as well as in the European Union, where consumer protection is very much developed. For what? Because today we're a society that almost doesn't produce anything, but imports everything. And what's he importing? In Dalmatia, we'd call them cherries. And the state doesn't protect us from it. It must be the first membrane that such, it is the best protection of consumers, that such garbage does not enter Croatia at all, that I have a Schengen limit for these products. But we are touched by these products that you cannot neither, and such qualities that you cannot find in the European Union. And why is that? For God's sake, let him have our people, so let our citizens choose cheaper products, more expensive, or goods for every pocket. Harmful products, however cheap they are, are too expensive. We're not so rich that we buy such a really bolf stuff, such literally trash. That state doesn't do anything. These are products that are harmful and dangerous to health, and the consequences are not borne by such a trader, not by the importer, nor by the manufacturer, but by all these consequences later fall on the burden of our citizen, or by the very authorities who then, or by our health care system, who then also impoverish our funds. Then what do you do in that sense? First of all, the state here should have a great ally, the government should have a great ally in consumer associations. However, the way this law was passed tells and testifies that it did not matter. Namely, associations and even those representatives who were an integral part of the task force that prepared this law, not that they were not consulted, but all that they said and they know best what is causing our consumers almost nothing was adopted. Even the original proposal was such an intention that the consumer had no right to replace the product, something that had already been established with us when we did not know what consumer protection was but existed in the Law on Mandatory Relations as a norm dating back to when there was contractual relations from their beginnings. Who has such an interest or influence on our promoter, i.e. The government and for what? In fact, out of the 50 proposals made by the Association for Consumer Protection of Croatia, only one was adopted. Were the other fifty irrelevant? Key things aren't adopted. And for what? Here's why. Because we suddenly became almost overnight a society in which the market became a new deity and the merchants of the gods. Merchants only and owners of trade chains where they spot a chain in a local self-government unit. According to their opinion, these new capitalist barons determine the price of work, and then women, the new slaves of the 21st century, work in these trade chains. The labour inspectors are completely powerless to contain it and sell us whatever goods they want. That's what's causing you. Associations face great problems as well as those that reveal corruption either individuals or associations their life becomes hell, not those they point to but those who point to. That's right with associations, as if they're infuriating from them, and ruthless pressure when they point to problems happening. One of the examples I know is in the Zadar Consumer Association where man had to resign. No funds or units of local self-government shall be given adequate funds at least those that have recognised this role that would be important both for local self-government units and for the central government. Here's an example. One Germany who knows how best to invest money because it disburses its funds protects the fiscous. In one German province, their consumer protection counsellor gets 11m euros annually and these people are paid. We have all this on a volunteer basis and I'm talking about what problems these people face. They began from the beginning when a law was passed in 2003 with a lot of enthusiasm. At first, it seemed that these associations would flourish, but they met with the powers, the capital, and the state would not protect those weak, but I say it goes in favor of the team that violates those rights and by the existing law and there are always justifications. We have seen now and the justifications here that will slip from the vial which is displayed this way, will slip the price especially if the vial is cooled. You see, when I was a little girl, I found a book at my notot and not a book, an old book in which the price of 100 dinars was printed or I don't know what it said. This can also be printed on the vial as well as the loading time and the price, but this requires new funds for the manufacturer or trader, and we do not want to disturb them. We always protect in advance. Otherwise, there are a lot of excuses here, which is why you don't go into such a single protection. And also for bread. Can't there be a bag of paper and a price on it? Yeah, there's only a way if there's a will. But the true will to protect the consumer is gone. He just wants to figure out and really some improvements are made, but they simply won't be possible because they don't carry out what's in the law. Thus, the consumer association asked for any retail price to be the price on each product. They requested that the guarantor fix the product within a maximum period of 15 days which the consumer decides to fix. You say by the time the reservation comes, it'll be a long time. So if within that time limit he can't fix or come a part let him give a new product. We ask that consumers of public services, this is the consumer association's request, can only be charged according to real consumption so that all costs are shown per product unit. This is not happening, especially public service providers. They count as much as they want and whatever they want, including our Elektra and the others. When was anyone responsible for the crime of illegal charges? Never, possibly a small craftsman answered if he charged more. They're mistaken for God's sake. And look at the wonders, they always get confused about the consumer's harm. Therefore, those who provide particularly public services in this law should find something that existed a long time ago when only the Law on Mandatory Relations was applied, which is the fact that there is no interruption of the delivery of that service before the decision itself. Now it's making it impossible. And I have a whole series of individual complaints. This isn't for the final proposal. We suggest that I go to the third reading myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32716	We have one replica and one correction to an incorrect quote. A colleague named Lesar reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32717	My colleague Ingrid, with only a small note, the second reading of this law should be rather than a third because this is an emergency procedure if I'm not mistaken. ... It would take a second reading of this law and not a third, this is an emergency procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This is first and second, so this should be first and then second. But you mentioned associations or consumer protection associations. I have to show my public surprise that none of them all these years and, in particular, at the moment of the amendments and the addition of the law did not respond to the very part of the law that allowed consumers to be harassed by traders with printed materials addressed or not addressed when the situation in the consumer caused the greatest opposition. So, and that phone call when three times at lunchtime they pick you up and sell the sheets, so I don't have to be rude to the end. But the fact that every month at least 20 kilos of waste you deliver at the door or in a mailbox or on a fence even. Because it's a waste. It's garbage that we consumers have to take care of at our own expense. No sanctions were provided. And what's the problem is you can't find a phone number or another means of communication on these advertising materials to protest. Well, you just don't have anyone to send a warning to and say, "Listen, people, don't harass me anymore." And on the other hand, it's an environmental problem because citizens have to deal with that waste paper later on. So it might be good for Madam Secretary of State to consider also that producers of addressed or unaddressed printed material pay environmental tax if they are so rude and boastful. They produce huge amounts of this material that citizens have to take care of. All in order to detimize them into doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32718	Replica reply, colleague Marinović Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32719	A colleague here may be a small correction when it comes to first and second reading, i.e. Emergency procedure, then I suggest a third reading. But we understood each other. In any case, this law should not be passed. You're absolutely right. And this is also the consumer association and proposed. But unfortunately, it wasn't adopted. So what now? What's left for consumers? They can take it, pick up now for a new even collective lawsuit. They could have done that under the existing Law on Prosecution, which we changed in 2003. It could've been done then. But here's what's happening now under this law. Now there is going to be a big mess, because the Law on Mandatory Relations applies, and this law applies, and you can see in this case that the sanctions for non-compliance are based on the court's decision. That the defendant, i.e. That merchant gets fined. So, the consumer is being sued and what, the outcome of that. Yeah, and if he's punished for disrespecting those funds, he'll go into state fiscus. So he's litigating for a third account. Well, it's really too much when it comes to consumer protection. He doesn't get any cash satisfaction to stall. Absolutely unacceptable. So it's detimizing at all that it goes into any kind of procedure if it even comes to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32720	We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, MP Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32721	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I have to say, it's a shame that this quality of law is passed in the middle of election time, because then rhetoric is quite different. A whole series of allegations would make it right. I'll give it a quick try. Let's say the state gives in to big merchants. Well, I don't think he's giving in at all. All this law applies to both large and small, and I think it's good to protect customers. He's still saying, "a society that doesn't produce." That's not true. Go, take a look at the reward split, look at a little company, a wood industry that's really liven up. Look at Concar, this, that. So I have hundreds of producers with me who make very high quality products. The state doesn't do anything to import garbage. They don't make up other countries. Go outside to the big department stores. In the lobby, you'll find everything we have. So, ah. The price of the product should be on the vial. So, all over the country, it should be the same price for everyone. There's no such thing. We can do that in countries that are otherwise organized, some kind of military dictatorship and something like that where they're going to say the same thing to everyone. So there are countless things that shouldn't be shown here this way, because I think that this law unlike you, I think it protects very much the buyers.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32722	Before we continue the debate, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, in 10.46, it is time for the hearing to be called into question for 10 minutes. And for the debate, there's a representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32723	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, here are just a few sentences about this bill, although I see it as an improvement compared to the previous one. The fact is that in Croatia today, the consumer situation is unfavourable, i.e. Croatia is still El Dorado when to take and sometimes unfair and unquality products Croatian citizens have money from their pockets. This law has an improvement compared to the one in 2007. But in some parts I would call it before the law on the protection of traders, rather than the Consumer Protection Act. Some before me have already talked about it, not to mention the special right to advertise. All Croatian citizens, at least those who have been able to buy mobile devices and appliances, have found themselves in a situation for them because it is going quite quickly as technology progresses, we have all changed five, six devices in our lives. And we were all witnessing the situation when, unfortunately for the lack of quality of a particular product which was quite favourable so we bought it showed some flaw within five, six, seven, ten days. But then we were in a situation where the operator who sold us that device didn't want to replace it, but the rule was within three days, but we could have left it at the service and then waited sometimes and months for our device to fix. So this is a situation that shouldn't be a rule and that would definitely destimulate the non-quality goods that are coming today in this segment in Croatia. And if the rule was introduced in the law that 90 days were worth advertising, that within 3 months you could, and not within 3 days, replace a non-quality product in that case would probably be better quality and consumers would be more protected. Or another example. Who did not find himself buying a car, an apartment, or anything else, had to make a deposit because it was such a rule in such a purchase. So when you buy a car, you have to leave a deposit. And then most often it happens that sometimes your car is not delivered to you within the time limit that the seller guaranteed, of course, if it's not in the salon, and with that nobody. So, the law predicts, though, that you have the right to interest on that money in 2007 as well. But I honestly don't know any case, and I think it would be the obligation of the seller to account immediately for that deposit and to reduce the final bill for the product. Which is why the buyer would have to prove himself, look, calculate, and ultimately I say I haven't met a single case yet that someone got interest on that deposit that cost three, four, six, once and a year at the seller's. These are things that seem to be small, but they're definitely not tiny because they're sometimes thousands of kunas. I would not mention what my colleague Franic mentioned in his opening part, which is that most often you will be accounted for and that the law stipulates that only average is calculated, means a quarterly interest that is in the bank on savings, not a tight interest, as you will pay when you do not pay the bill in time. Your interest is 17%, and the citizen who made the deposit most often and financed the business of whoever received the deposit will receive 6.7%. And then how is the consumer protected? And that's why I'm saying that in part of this law, I would say that this is a law on the protection of sellers, or traders. I'm saying that some of the provisions of the law are good, but they don't go through. It's a classic Croatian example. We have some law, and then we don't do it in practice. And it wasn't definitely consumer protection that came into practice, you can tell from a number of examples. First, the information of our citizens on this. Well, half of these things that we're talking about here right now, 99% of people don't even know they're entitled to it, and that's why we have to repeat it. You have the right to receive interest if you have deposited after you have received the goods or services. You have the right to do so, all Croatian citizens should know. There's no paying off that guy. The misinformation of citizens is high. One survey about a year ago says that 60% of Croatian citizens do not know that we have the Consumer Protection Act, let alone what it says. On the other hand, 60% of Croatian citizens want, of course, to be detailed so that they can protect themselves. Well, we don't expect consumers' protection to be taken into account most of the traders, as someone here has mentioned. So no merchants, merchants watch to encourage their protection, or to earn as much as possible. Croatian citizens will best protect themselves and should therefore insist on the best education of citizens to know what their rights are. This does not contribute to the fact that we have only 4 advisory centres in Croatia to date, and this is not part of this survey that I said earlier, 60% of Croatian citizens do not know that in Croatia is part of the Consumer Protection Act. And when we come to an execution, or one of the countries that should protect consumers, the results are even more devastating. So we have the law, we have an inspection that controls, and the result is as if we have nothing. I took out a report from the State Inspectorate last year saying that, with the 32 thousand controls applied under this law, probably when it comes to supervision, more laws were included, and this protection of consumers fell under it, 1500 were based on citizens' application, but of all that, it means 6695 violations of which 4873 violations were related to this provision which we mentioned earlier on the price, declarations, etc. So there's a violation of the law. But in this regard, only 874 of these indictments have been filed. So, since 6695, 874 of the defendant's proposal, 766 of the fines have been charged at the starting point, now watch this amount, 388 thousand 700 kuna. On average, about 500 kuna per offense. I've also read the law for this one, to violate this provision is punishment from 10 thousand to 100 thousand kuna. And we've charged, or the inspectorate has charged 766 fines and a total of 400 thousand kunas of all. So 500 kuna on average. Well, it's a message to the merchants, you're still breaking, you don't care. Someone who determines the first of these 7 grand will only experience 10% of them in the first place to pay the fine, and these 10% will pay a symbolic penalty worth breaking. I can do whatever they want. And finally, I'd like to say that we're working a little bit on consumer protection, especially in the section relating to financial services. America is currently in the process of a law that will protect credit card users in a way that they are accounted for, now I'm not going to say, there are 5.6 things that they have applied, but they have noticed that people in this recession year are having a hard time living and that credit cards are going to be more and more in circulation. They will protect that as little interest as possible on services as possible, to extend payment deadlines. We have a rare case of you getting a credit card bill and then you have to pay it within 5, 10 days, and most often it's related to 5 in the month, and we all know in Croatia that this year the salaries will be paid and that people will not have money. So, you're also thinking in this segment of the world about how to protect your fellow citizens without talking about a situation that's been fraternizing me. One cash withdrawal service is charged about 6%. One month's interest is 6%. I can understand that someone is charging on a credit card fee that is the cost of the service, 30 kuna, 40 kuna, 50 kuna because there are some expenses and ATMs and banks and transaction information, but that you pay 5% in one month if you raise at an ATM 2,3,000 kuna, so that's amazing. I don't even know if the CNB should react there. It's interest, which is, I don't even know what to call it. So, in conclusion, the law has made some moves. I would also suggest going to a new reading, otherwise I will be abstentioned during the vote. And what I would especially, against which I was to move, charge the fines from the inspectorate. The inspectorate to do his job well would have charged more fines, if he hadn't charged the fine, could, could have closed the store if he hadn't paid the fine for a while, but 7 grand, only 10% if they had ever committed criminal penalties was below any logic. And today to transfer it to court.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32724	Hey, buddy, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32725	Here, just one more sentence, and today to transfer it to the judiciary when we know what kind of situation the judiciary is in, it makes absolutely no sense. We need to put in order, we have the law, and all we have to do is show the will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32726	We have two replicas. First replica, colleague Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32727	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Maras, two topics, two things from the law you have found that are extremely important, which is that the existing 4 counselling centres that were established in Croatia, hopefully all 4, have not fulfilled their function and purpose and remain anonymous. They were even more anonymous than this Agency for the Prevention of Money Laundering. And it's a real shame that there's three years behind us or two and a half of their functioning that we haven't gained a certain experience, or at least I don't know for them what the basis for our assessment would be for whether this solution is to consult the future associations and not the state. The other problem you have rightly pointed to is too small a number and too mild a sanction that has so far been imposed under the existing law, and this is the old cancer of the wounds of our regulations or the actions of the competent sanctioning inspectorates. And thirdly, you set out an example of cash withdrawal payment to 6% credit cards. I don't know if Mrs. Secretary of State knows, but I'm going to set another example of how consumers and citizens are cut off. Workers who need to bring in a confirmation of the price of the bus ticket, so how much is the bus ticket, bus carriers do not charge at a fixed amount of 10, 20, 50, 100 kuna but 5% of the price of the ticket. Therefore, it issues a certificate to the worker which must justify the cost of transport and charges the cost of issuing the certificate depending on the amount of that ticket for which it requests confirmation. It's just amazing. And you can check this out, maybe even with your employees if one of them was in a position to bring that confirmation that they've charged an unsecured amount but a percentage of the value of the ticket that he asked for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32728	The answer to the replica, Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32729	Thank you very much. Here, just get you around these advisory centers. So there are four of them, and now in law I've seen the change that goes. counterpart Ingrid Anticevic said that very poor financial assistance is being helped from both the local level and the state level of work of these advisory centres. But I saw in the law that it was meant to co-finance the work of these advisory centres but it confuses me why then the bill says no additional resources are needed. So if we have this change where it goes to co-financing of advisory centres and not the budget or the law says that no additional means are needed, the message is confusing, or it can be assumed that this certificate will be symbolic or perhaps this year will not be at all. The key thing is citizens' information and I say it will best protect the citizens of consumers themselves, no traders. Unfortunately, the state could do more than that, but we've seen from this example of payment of fines doesn't work at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32730	Another replica of MP Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32731	What my colleague said was the case with the providers of these financial services. The consumer association also requested that, within the meaning of this law, public services are considered exactly the services of banks and insurance companies in order to prevent all of what banks and insurance companies and other centres of financial power, but, of course, for known reasons of the protection of banks and capital, the Government did not accept it, but on the other hand, are giving shameless lies when we are just about to protect the citizens, protecting them from the unwarranted increase in interest to be taxed, and then to protect them shamelessly turning to the thee, and it is a shameless lie. That's inadmissible. And why lie and shamelessly lie? Just to cover up this government's protection of these centers of financial power.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32732	The answer to the replica, Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32733	Thank you very much. This is not what I was able to say in the debate, but it is especially about interest on loans from Croatian citizens, which may be the topic of the last year in Croatia and most of those who have raised the loans are growing. And so far, we've had a provision in the law under a chapter that says certain contractual provisions that can be considered unfair. And then Article 97 states a provision allowing the trader, okay in this case, to be a bank, because he trades with that service, to unilaterally amend the contractual provisions without a valid contract for the intended reason. So we had one such provision in law. And what is valid, or contract, is the fact here that the contract states that interest is variable by the decision of the bank most often. And so the bank determines in this case what is a valid reason and what is not a valid reason and why some banks change interest rates and some don't change, whether these have a valid reason and these others don't use it. Would anyone work any bank at their own expense? I don't mean, there's only a question of profit and a question of how certain banks want to earn extra profits, and that's what this is about. So we have already had opportunities through the existing law to protect Croatian consumers because contractual provisions when they are related to certain things should not be changed lightly. And given that in the Consumer Protection Act, the Croatian Assembly is first in line as an institution that should worry about consumer protection and the Club of Representatives of the SDP has sent one such law to this session and I hope that we will all support it because it is going to protect Croatian citizens and detimulation of Croatian banks to raise interest rates. To clarify what is already clear to everyone and according to this law, at least to me, it is clear that we should not change but if it is not clear to clarify it by the end of this law where Croatian banks would detimise to raise interest rates.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32734	The word was requested and obtained by State Secretary Tamara Obradović Mazal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32735	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President. I'm aware that I'm limited by a minute here, and I'm going to try, given that there are more reported ones, and since there's probably going to be a review, I'd like to take another chance to clarify some of the concepts from the beginning by moving. It was said that consumer protection associations were not consulted. This is a bit of a difficult claim because, in addition to the petition that we all received, that is, the request of the Croatian Consumer Protection Association to you Assembly representatives sent by e-mail, there is one table picture actually that results in all our discussions, which shows where our joint discussions, our joint work on this law and the dialogue that we have and we have with the associations led us to. So if the associations hadn't been consulted then they'd probably have this table view and everything that was adopted, everything where we found ourselves halfway and where we respected each other's arguments then there wouldn't have been. Because if the debate and the consultation weren't then actually that e-mail and that petition dream. He didn't actually happen. However, what I commend on the part of the association is, of course, tenacity, perseverance in the achievement of their arguments which they consider justified, and that is all in the interest of consumer protection information, the information of our citizens. We need strong and non-governmental associations that will primarily have a function and task to fight for their rights and through education and through raising awareness. However, the petition and the arguments that went with it should not have been the only preparation for this parliamentary debate of this law. Because certain legal provisions, i.e. certain elements, institutes mentioned there with due respect, looking at them on at least the legal side should have been further, it may have served as a basis but not being the only preparation in this parliamentary debate. Because maybe this debate would go in another direction. She's certainly a valuable document, but it shouldn't have been the only debate. Note Bene, the last time we sat in our office with the Consumer Protection Association and the Consumer Protection Alliance and the Chamber of Commerce. It was May 13th with naturally intense meetings and intense e-mailing and phone calls. The associations were consulted. There's no win win win situation. These are rare situations in life. There will always be someone in some negotiations who will remain short for some of his demands. Therefore, the fact that some things, seven of them in particular, are not respected does not mean that the whole law is therefore falling into the water, that this is bad and that our consumers are left on the adventure of unregulated things. As for the counselling area that we finance and not only the counselling centres, we donate funds to the associations. In particular for this year, 3 million 875 thousand. It's not small money. We managed to fight this year for consumer protection funds to cut ourselves to a minimum in terms of general savings because we are aware of how much money they need to work on further information and education. 18,000 cases solved have been solved only by 4 consultants last year. 18000 times, so those of our consumers were at a disposition in achieving their questions and rights. I agree that more work should be done on education and information and therefore our resources, but the resources of the units of local self-government must be there to help them and to help us also eventually disburse our resources which, for the time being, are exclusively donated to associations or consumer counselling centres. As far as the price is concerned, I have pointed out that this part will be dealt with by the regulation, that the basic premise and the common denominator is that the price is highlighted on each product and that we will respect so-called sublaw. spread the burden and respect those circumstances on the product that does not support price glue on the packaging itself. As for the advertising tax, I hope Minister Shucker is following the debate. I really can't get into the Ministry of Finance's jurisdiction and determine a new tax. State Inspectorate. This year 500 products withdrawn from the market, dangerous products, products that we characterised in the debate as bofl goods. Last year 60 children's beds, 5000 Christmas chains, 50,000 extension cables, 5,000 bulbs and 500 chargers only based on a sublegal act on electrical equipment, i.e. electromagnetic compatibility where other products were naturally included toys that the State Inspectorate pulled from the market. I hope to receive additional information during the debate. The interest, the interest on the deposit. You said yourself it exists as an institute and as a possibility since 2007. There is. So what we expect from the associations, as well as agile and active to inform our consumers and to fight for their information on their rights. So with us, that word and that information must also become available to our citizens. So that the instrument that exists can be used. It's a note when we're talking about interest. We can't influence with this law whether that interest will be 6.9 or 3%. However, if you followed the consumer code case that exists as a show for further consumer information, there was a bank that charged people with a non-existent service of 20 kn every month. Therefore, what is the point of the Consumer Protection Act if I can finish, what is the point of the Consumer Protection Act not to affect the level of interest, it is regulated by other regulations, but that it affects the possibility that if you are suspended in business with the bank, that you have the possibility and that this law gives, that you go to the bank and exercise your right as a consumer. We can't influence through this law on interest rates on withdrawing cash from the machine. But we can if the ATM ate our card, if he didn't pay us the money and if we're wrong or for these or those reasons that are going to be determined or needed or they're determined to get it, pay something we don't have to pay. As for more credit and bank operations on benches, you will get the Consumer Credit Act that the government will refer to in a procedure that will further clarify the relationship between, therefore, banks and consumers in their contractual relationship to demand the issue of loans. As for the replacement of the product. Please take another look at Article 2. Therefore, by virtue of the Law on Mandatory Relations, etc. The trader is obliged to choose, so I can and have a choice, to remove my lack, to give me the replacement product. Why are we talking about the fact that there's no way to achieve a replacement product? So we're asking that the trader if I want it to give me another product without shortage, to lower my price, to pay me back the amount paid for the product. In the debate, we hear there's no alternative product. It exists in Article 2 just as there is a continuation of the service if we appeal to one account. This does not mean that our service will be suspended and that does not mean that if we dispute one account we continue to use the service that we will not now pay the next 6 bills that are undeniable. Therefore, I must admit that this request is not clear to me because it exists, therefore, in amendments and additions as a real possibility. If you dispute one account and argue about one account, you continue to buy electricity, or you spend water, gas, and the rest does not mean that you will not pay all other bills for this one. And as for the price of the map, that is, the price of the information is actually about the price of the map. It is for the largest area of the City of Zagreb 12,00 kn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32736	We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is MP Antičević Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32737	It is simply not true that Mrs. Secretary of State claimed that the Government cared and gave funds and that they were only slightly reduced for which association. For the association and this association of Croatian Consumer Associations, almost no funds are given, very minor, barely survive. And why is that? Because that association didn't bow to the merchants, that's number one. And secondly, it sounds very cynically your word here when you determine that an information error has led to a higher charge. There's no such informational error. What kind of information error did she charge less? That's not the way it is. So it's really one cynical, incorrect, instead of taking criminal charges for those who steal our citizens, you're justifying them that it's an information mistake. Well, that's inadmissible.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32738	Second correction, Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32739	I'd just like to make it right when we talk about interest, or advances, so the secretary of state said that there are already high interest rates. No, the interest on the advance that citizens have the right to make is the average three-month interest the trader has in his business bank. So we were talking about disproportionateness. Which is why you do not put in the law that the trader is obliged to pay the level of a tight advance interest so as to desimulate it in such a way that it is required for certain products and services advances. And that's where we'd talk about consumer protection. And that we can't react in this way that you said the same thing to a card player that they're taking a monthly interest of 6%? I think we can. They may have some other institutions that should react to that price, but I definitely don't see anyone charging for the hard life of Croatian citizens who are now in trouble dealing with all sorts of ways with 6% of monthly interest. I think that's inadmissible.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32740	We're continuing the debate. It's Nevenka Majdenic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32741	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here, regarding the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act, I would like to get involved in this debate. Not only as a parliamentary representative, but as one of the 4 million consumers in the Republic of Croatia. It is certain that the time in which consumers are considered a separate small interest group has gone by irrevocably. We must admit that today we are all aware of the fact that our rights as a consumer have been improved. In the past 6 years since the first Consumer Protection Act was adopted, which lays the foundations of consumer protection policy in the Republic of Croatia, the consumer protection system has been constantly developing. With this proposal for a law that we are discussing today, Croatia's legislation in this area is further in line with European Union legislation, and thus we want to achieve an equal level of protection of our rights that all European consumers enjoy. I want to stress here that the well-organised economy of a country is based on the competitiveness of entrepreneurs, but largely depends on this high level of consumer confidence and satisfaction. The fact is that the market in today's global context cannot function well if consumers do not feel secure about the purchase of goods and services. The establishment of such a legal and institutional framework in the area of consumer protection creates conditions for further upgrading of the system in which consumer education and information on their rights is of paramount importance. Let us remember, dear colleagues and colleagues, that the Croatian Parliament has just declared 2007 a year of consumer education in the Republic of Croatia. It is also important to point out that consumer education affects not only the consumer as an individual, but is primarily focused on the development of human rights, ethical values and social and economic justice in each individual country. Following the development of consumer protection policy in the Republic of Croatia, I am pleased to point out that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has continued to cooperate with civil society and is financially supporting many consumer protection associations so that they can carry out their basic activities, which is advice, consumer education on their rights. Based on the Consumer Protection Act today on the market of the Republic of Croatia, as we heard, there are 4 consumer counselling centres in Zagreb, Split, Osijek and Pula, which are financed from the state budget. The secretary of state said they answered, actually, that there are 18 thousand items, and I think that surely these consultations have a role and significance. Furthermore, a number of projects have been developed over the past period through which consumers are educated and implemented in cooperation with consumer protection associations, the development and improvement of consumer protection policies and the National Consumer Protection Council established as an advisory body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The law creates a legal framework for consumer protection, while the national programme elaborates on the activities of all consumer protection factors in the Republic of Croatia. What I am particularly pleased with is that today, at the time of the use of all the advantages of modern technologies, communication travel blogs, websites, e-mails, new media, the consumer has the opportunity by electronic means to request advice, interpretation of laws or to take measures of competent market surveillance authorities. This system can be learned by all of us consumers, through a website which is the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, the State Inspectorate and Consumer Protection Advisory. Finally, I would like to stress that by adopting these amendments and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act, we will certainly achieve a higher level of consumer protection, consumer rights enjoyed by all citizens in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32742	Thank you very much. It's Zdenko Franić's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32743	Honored Madam Vice President, honored Madam Secretary of State with co-workers, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. So far, the debates have several times used the syntax that this law represents an additional alignment with the acquis of the European Union and that it represents additional consumer protection, which is undoubtedly a fact, that is, a step forward and it should be welcomed, but one question is raised. Why didn't that work out? Why do we always do something extra harmonize, take a step forward? Why don't we once do something until the end to really protect consumers from reckless tycoon and market savagery. It is a public secret that many tycoons in the Republic of Croatia have taken advantage of selling goods, goods that would not have passed in the Western markets. They used that limbo best before or best use it up. So, in developed Western democracies, this commodity would simply be withdrawn from the market while it certainly had its passage but at significantly higher prices. And it's fortunate that a Consumer Protection Act was passed in 2003, which began to make it impossible. However, the merchants thought they were pathetic, so as counterpart Lesar said, they usually value themselves nice on the date of manufacture or that period of use, or you simply can't find that date because it either doesn't have it or is hidden somewhere. As regards financial services, it is indeed commendable that the Government will refer to the parliamentary procedure of the Consumer Credit Act because the situation of the government on the market is extremely inappropriate, and the more the state budget is being damaged. Here, just some of the papers that have been glued to the tram stations, the bandits. Here, you can get cash discreetly, realisation the same day and credit returns through the bank. You get 5 thousand kuna, for only 220 kuna per month, 10 kuna for 440 kuna, etc. The only thing that doesn't know is what number of months you're supposed to pay back these loans. When you call these phones, there's a Pero or a Mrs. Anna or Wesna, so that's all discretion guaranteed. There's a question of what they're doing, basically the police, the state authorities. It's not really a question of the Ministry of Economy, but to settle it, the state budget could certainly get additional funding, because this would actually be implemented through banks and not through some lenders, so then discretion is guaranteed but you are guaranteed to break any leg or arm unless it returns those 220 kuna by 5th in the month or I know it. With regard to slightly larger transactions such as buying apartments or maybe cars often traders, or as a rule, consumer traders require or explicitly condition the purchase of products or services with partial or total one-time or periodical advance value. However, the question arises why the state does not play a strong map of herc ace and says okay but then let the trader issue a bank guarantee to the consumer on a total advance in case the product subject to the contract cannot be delivered, which is often an example of not building apartments, the company fails, etc., then you are tried for years, so this proves something etc. And mostly, who gets hurt? It's usually the customer's. Software manufacturers also often test their software in a way that deliberately reduces services to their customers in order to explore how these customers will react, and then they condition the Mic per Mic to pay for the full functionality of the software. Why no longer does the Ministry of Economy and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the E Croatian Office no longer propagates free software to avoid such things and monopolies of software giants not to quote them because even with parliamentary immunity, such names are not mentioned in vain. But it's obvious that this segment is ruled by that Latin expression "quod facet yovi, non facet bovi". We're still unfortunately small-tooth cattle, so traders and sellers can still trick us. For example, traders thus in banking services condition services by providing JMBG by consumers, their customers. For example, you cannot even conduct in certain banks such benign transactions as sending a thousand kunas outside the Republic of Croatia, and he says that for this transaction we need your JMBG, do you happen to have any document on which he writes. Well, for God's sake, it's been a long time since I've had JMBG, and I don't think I'd be able to carry with me a canceled I.D. card or an old housewife issue. And he says yes, then we can't conduct that transaction. I ask the question of how the state has entrusted the banks with public transport services and that these same banks then terrorise citizens with some information, providing information that does not fall within that level of service. Even delivery services are charged because banks charge for the delivery of their reports. Now the truth with the introduction of Internet banking can be determined to read it via e-mail but that's why they abolished the lowest level of service, so they condition you a higher subscription, etc. And to conclude, this law here is progress in the protection of consumers but it is certainly not the crucial step forward that Croatian citizens and consumers and we all feel as protected as in Western democracies where such situations are simply unimaginable. I believe that the law should go slowly and diligently into the third reading and that some other solutions are being completed but without passion and without excessive excitement this time with full participation of consumer protection associations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32744	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Representative Nevenka Majdenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32745	Dear Madam Vice President. Well, I'd like to just look back on what Mr. Franic said about banking business and looking for a single home number. In view of the fact that this unique home number has been abolished, and unfortunately, since the complete banking documentation is related to this unique home number. And I personally think it was a mistake, because you have to commit to something. And it's in the interest of consumer protection. And why is that? If we write Goran Maric, say, and ask for his obligations on loans or something else, you will get maybe a dozen Goran Maric. It could even be from the same place. You just don't know who the payment's for. Therefore, the unique home number was correct, so when you pay by that unique home number, you know exactly who that payment and payment and debt is going to be. And that's very important. And that's why you're still looking for that unique home number in banking. So whoever eliminated it didn't think long-term that we and healthcare and banking were all related to a single parent number. But here's what we're going to have, so banking is going to use a personal identification number, and that's going to end up dealing with these problems. So to comply with some law. And so, I think, in all laws, it is important that consumer protection should also take care of the consequences of the abolition, so this time a personal, unique parenting number.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32746	Replica response, MP Franić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32747	Well, I absolutely agree with that, but since the situation is like that, couldn't the banks have introduced either their own internal identification number or anything. Because it's already been since 2003, so six years since JMBG was suspended, and these are still asking for JMBG payments transactions. So if I agree to the risk of paying my money to someone, then I put my name and last name on it so that the bank doesn't care if I want it or don't want it, I do or don't have it. The main thing is that she sends my money somewhere where I want to send it. But I agree that with the OIB, I guess it'll end eventually. I'm actually surprised that the banks aren't looking for OIB, they're still looking for JMBG. Because in the end, we and the OIB introduced a few months ago, and the momentum of that banking market is such that they failed to adapt their software. So let them choose to pay for Croatian software engineers. They'd be happy to improve their systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32748	Thank you very much. It is up to the debate representative Goran Maric, one unique of those who know how much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32749	There's only a few of them! Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, esteemed representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Many economists say that employees in the economy, institutions, business organisations, institutions are not paid by employers, but paid by buyers, consumers. Many have written books entitled “The Power of the Buyer, The Power of the Consumer, The Investment of the Buyer, The Role of the Consumer”. In economic colleges there are collegiates called “Consumer behavior” and which study how the environment, system and values, knowledge, congitive processes affect consumer behaviour. And why do many study it? Well, because they know the importance and role of consumers, i.e. the customer in the overall economic activity. That he is, that buyer is one of the most important factors in economic activity and economic growth. And it showed time, here are the twenty years of the Croatian state that this particular customer who was the most important factor was one of the most unprotected in the economy. The one who paid, bought and paid for the goods was in the most invisible position, in an invisible position. However, it has been systematically here for years, and all agreed to improve the position of consumers. And this Law amending and supplementing the Consumers Act is indeed one part of this evolution of consumer protection and another step in this consumer protection process. And it's not just a legal framework contribution. Many consumer protection organisations have also made a major contribution to this, helping to protect consumers through constant and continuous action. There are also written media that are increasingly paying attention to individual cases when the consumer is cut off, and how counterpart Markovanovic said on HTV "Sumptuous Code" which has also contributed to the protection of consumers in many ways. But here's when we're on HTV we're all HTV consumers because we pay our subscription so I'm satisfied with the "user code" show so I'm not happy with the results of the business of HTV, and we should consider how to protect our customers from constantly hosting 30 regular and privileged guests on regular, daily TV shows. Many of the comments were made here, so one of the colleagues was Lesar to write really small letters on the instructions so that nothing could be read. I agree with him because it's really inappropriate to draw attention to. It is true that a little over the years my vision has weakened, but comparing the instructions ten, fifteen years, and today, more and more small letters have been written. He has his own message on why it seems that way. It's similar to that of a mobile operator who says free phone calls inside the network, and then down the corner in small letters that you can't read under a glass, but every call establishment is 0,60 or one kuna or so. So it's not a free phone call. There was also talk here about the work of the State Inspectorate. Indeed, there is a great responsibility at the State Inspectorate. There are examples of both positive and negative. I also understand the position of the trader and the position of the consumer and the customer. However, there are cases even I personally know that the inspectors of the State Inspectorate have been targeted by certain organisations. And I also know that the trader is being punished because of the price of 19 of 20 wineheads, and one of them accidentally fell off, so he paid for the offense and punishment. This is indeed inadmissible for such failures to be minor and punished. Also, here I have recently seen a judge’s solution to the offenses because a merchant has issued a pale account. It's visible, but it wasn't exactly written exactly how he thought it was full of black. And he paid the merchant a fine. Such things really need not be shown in merchants by law enforcement, but by where they systematically violate it, and there are such cases. There are entire centres where goods are known to be sold which is technically invalid. The way the buyer feels when he buys the goods, he doesn't even bring it home, but he has shown his shortcomings, and he paid it neatly. And the State Inspectorate never got there with his foot in those big stores. I hope that this amendment and the addition of the Consumer Protection Act will help to ensure that some of the things that have happened in Croatia never happen again, and these are even fatal cases of the purchase of dialysis filters. Also, where huge consequences could have occurred when old beef was sold for 10 years and still those who did so went unpunished. I believe that this law will contribute, that consumers will be protected in that most basic function of life because there are products that threaten life, which are dangerous to health and I believe that this law will help to remove such products from the Croatian market and not sell to our people. But I also understand merchants when there's a season of downsizing, a sale of winter goods. There's one problem that's also legally... Merchants shall not sell goods lower than the purchase price. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's really the problem, and I'd like to ask the Ministry of Economy to consider the problem. Another law makes it impossible not to lower goods in the action process below the purchase price. And what will the merchants do if they can't sell it and can't lower the prices? And the benefit of both the consumer and the buyer and the trader. The goods must then be dumped later only because they were not allowed to sell them, and the season of their use expires or the model is no longer in use and the like. So it would be wise to consider not being limited by the law in this regard. For the whole economy, the relationship is also important for the organisation, institution or institution of the customer's relationship in the course of purchase. However, the relationship is equally important after the purchase process. Many wholesalers lost their jobs because of their relationship. For example, because of the service service, they thought when they sold the car that they should no longer care about these customers. They thought when they sold the refrigerator that they didn't have to worry about how to remove the malfunction because when the consumer buys, he doesn't even know which service to call because it doesn't say which service is authorized. There are no repairers on the tags. There's no service in the manual to call. And many will have to worry about taking care of it even after buying products about customers because the real success of each organisation, and thus the success of the employees depends most on whether the customer will return to him and if he returns, but without advertising on the product, then it is the success of each organisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32750	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Agent Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32751	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I liked the presentations of fellow Marić, which is especially the starting part and he very scientificly explained it with of course a whole series of practical problems. You said the buyer is the most important factor, the most important factor is the natural citizen. A citizen who can and doesn't have to be a customer, not a consumer. Just like us in the health system. Citizen, insurance, patient, patient. So, the citizen is the point. But it's no less important the role of the state now represented by the secretary of state. So it's amazing that we killed with our data and how the state has treated us citizens over the past 20 years. For a time, that JMBG was a secret. I know when I'm in '91. You weren't allowed to talk to JMBG who, who responded, who didn't, who's the defender, who's not, who's in what kind of army, etc. But I don't have my American I.D. card on me, so you just have to give two information. The exact name, middle name and second name is, Madam Secretary of State, SSN Social Security number which can be a, permanent, permanent, b temporer, temporary. Nothing else. Other information, place ugly, any city, any city. So these are the data that the state in this case protects the citizens. So you don't have to tell me where you live, what street, what Avenue, where you live. And the third piece of information that's academic is health care. So, some countries already, not the states of America are looking for information whether you're an organ donor or not, yes or no. So, just two data. Name and last name, SSN and third is temporary whether or not you are an organ donor. That's why it's good that we finally got the OIB, but it's a disaster that the current economy minister and the current vice president of the government or the former, and I don't know, so how long it's taken for this OIB to be established, in fact it hasn't even been established yet, it's being established, it's being spent, and we finally protect us, the state to protect the citizens. As you said, the buyer is the most important factor. No, the citizen is the most important factor. Thank you very much, Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32752	Replicate reply by representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32753	Thank you very much. Col. Ostojić, in the professional economic literature when it comes to the customer, is then spoken of as a citizen because it means not only the buyer who bought it but every potential buyer, so it is understood when it comes to the customer to think of every citizen in a particular territory that is a potential buyer. When it comes to a unique home number, we must be aware of the enormous difficulties caused by the abolition and prohibition of the use of a unique home number of citizens because it was not found at the time of the suspension in 2002, a proper replacement for how it will be implemented in practice. And it's known that tens, twenty seats must be used. And today is not just a problem as counterpart Franic said when you pay at the banks that you can give a unique home number, you have to put it in a lot more places when you come. However, it also happened in the economy. Imagine that legal persons also have a statistical number in the statistical office, have a home number, have a MBS number, etc. at the Register of the Trade Court, and they have a tax number instead of having one single number. But that's why there must always be assumptions and I hope that the OIB is that assumption that it's going to be that number. As the unique home number of citizens when it was abolished had to be found by then a solution which is the number to be used in each place when it comes to a natural person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32754	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. It's Agent Davor Bernardic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32755	Thank you very much. Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, I've heard, and through the debates from various clubs, it's been carried out that traders should be more aware, that something should be done to regain consciousness. Well, there's no better way than to raise awareness and do something to pass the law and to enforce it. I think that's why we're all here and that's why there are parliamentary systems and that's why there are laws and state structures. And traders who will be more aware to protect citizens especially in these times cannot expect it as a special reality because primarily traders protect themselves, and especially protect themselves today when all data shows it, all relevant macroeconomic data. The VAT revenue has fallen or will fall close to 10%, so the consumption is lower. The retail trade dropped 17%, so it's less consumption. Citizens are in charge or over-indebted for consumption. I'll just tell you one thing. Of all the loans consumed by Croatian citizens, 55% of these loans are consumer loans. This average in EU countries is between 15% and 20%, with us three times higher, 55% of all loans are consumer loans and these are loans due to consumption. It's loans with the highest interest rate. These are loans in which citizens are owed except for a small percentage to buy a personal car, mostly to finance their daily needs. Unfortunately, it is something that is happening in Croatia. And now on one side you have two options if you want to leave the consumption at that level that it's at now. One is that income rises and incomes in this year and next year will certainly not grow because real income, the personal income of every citizen in the last year fell for the first time in seven, eight years. So there's another way if you don't already grow coming to be in debt. But where you will be more than 55% of the share of consumer loans in all of your duties. This means that our citizens and the complete borrowing sector should then pursue some far more underdeveloped countries. And as he told his colleague Maric that the salaries were paid by buyers. The salaries in the economy, in the stores, are paid by buyers. This means that if there is no income growth and there is no new borrowings, because the duty of the population is already very clearly shown on this example, it means that we can expect a new discharge or a new cancellation. And that's what reality is. And that's why the state not only needs to protect consumers, the state should also protect traders. However, the state should protect consumers and on the basis of what counterpart Maras said, there was evidence of what kind of experiment it was. So, with all the important and good improvements that this law foresees and which it brings, we are also aware of the transfer of the ball to one part of the responsibility. When I say switching the ball, I primarily mean the State Inspectorate's jobs. In 2007, when the law was passed, it was adopted and it stands in the very explanation based on some of the best practices especially in Scandinavian countries where the arbitration decision is left to the State Inspectorate. And now that story is moving to the Trade Court and that's what's the key problem. 6000 695 violations of 776 penalties charged in total amounting to 388 thousand kuna according to data from the State Penalty Inspectorate for Consumer Protection. A colleague, Maras, used it a little bit, said 400 kuna per fine. But if 10 thousand kunas are the smallest punishment in this account, that 95% of the merchants did not pay the fine. According to that account, if 10 thousand kuna is the minimum penalty, then 95% of the merchants didn't pay that fine. When it is mentioned that these matters are settled in trade courts across Europe, then it must be taken into account that Germany has a special working court in which labour disputes are settled in seven days. We have labor disputes waiting to be settled for a few years. We've got everything waiting to be solved for a couple of years. By the time the disputes are resolved, people die. And that's why this is classic in this part of transferring the ball from the State Inspectorate to our fast and efficient judiciary. Because imagine you, imagine a consumer who's been waiting five years to win a dispute over a razor machine. Well, that's terrible! Five years to win a dispute over a razor machine. And that's actually something where we see a shortage, because we can't compare ourselves with countries that have special working courts for certain disputes in which disputes are settled within a week or two. We've been having disputes for a long time, and that's why it's not good to move it to the Trade Courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32756	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32757	Thank you very much. Mr Bernardic said the VAT revenue has dropped 10% and this points to a decline in economic activity. And that's right. But it should be emphasized why economic activity has taken place. First of all, what happened this year and at the end of last year was the sudden savagery of the so-called. Passive interest. There was an inappropriate economic phenomenon, an economic defect that interest on deposits increased to as much as 6, 7, 8, and 10%. From such a foundation, the economy cannot be credited below 13.14%. And under such conditions is no one, disabling himself, discourages one who wants to engage in entrepreneurial activity. Because the paradox is that it's more cost-effective to keep deposits and make her a profit of six, seven percent than to deal with economic activity and make a profit of 2% or maybe even a loss. And then what happens? That those who have, and apparently some commercial companies have deposits that they are putting down and earn more than those who need money and can't get it at a high price. And as for my colleague Bernardic, you said well that this law should also protect the trader. I agree with both the trader and the consumer. So he protects, so here's colleague Maras said, even so much he protects him that this law should be called a law on the protection of a trader so that it is protected by both merchants and consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32758	Thank you very much. We have the last one reported for individual discussion. Excuse me. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32759	Okay. Thank you for this intervention. As for passive interest. So, only two reasons are possible why passive interest rates were so high. The first is because the banks had to collect deposits because they had run out of cheap borrowing outside. That's one thing. And the second is because of increased economic activity. And the increased economic activity was generated by increased state spending, especially in pre-election times. Expansive fiscal policy has led to an apparent expansion of an economy that cannot be maintained in the long term. That's the difference between a short and a long-term approach and that's what we're dealing with today. This is why this state spending, due to the government's borrowing to spend, in order to boost economic activity, especially in part of public works, has seen increased economic activity, there has been an increase in demand for money, passive interest has grown. The banks had to raise more deposits so they could invest and de facto it happened that after a short wave, which would say stealing out of the effects of private investments, there was a return to normal state from the country itself. And often it's a return to normal state and a return to below that level, and that's what unfortunately happens to us now in the country, that we might return with income to a lesser degree than we were. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32760	With another apology from MP Bernardic. Now it is the last to be reported for an individual debate, MP Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32761	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Since I'm the last person in the debate, I'm going to take the right to try to sum up this debate that's been going on all morning. First of all, it's a figure of speech. Consumer protection law is a major step in consumer protection, but provided consumers know about this law, provided that this law is implemented and provided that we sanction, amend, improve the current situation under this law. So, colleagues and colleagues, I listened very carefully. I concluded from your discussions that we have 4 phases – law, citizens, implementation, changes. We're changing the law today. So we're at the end of the first phase in this process. We had little principled phase two, my colleague Maras was talking about it. Few percent of citizens even know there's a law. Whether the law can be fully implemented if those who need to use it do not know about it. Absolutely phase three is just in motion, and the fourth is not even talking about her. So let's try to think that way. Let's not always be afraid of parties. Let's try to see what you and we in Parliament can do to the second, third and fourth phases as soon as possible and the best we can do. That's my suggestion. What I am obliged to do, because here I am a representative to say, to convey the thinking of the citizens I represent here, and they hunt me daily on the street, and I pulled out what this law is about. A man recently came to me while I was waiting in line to pay one bill and begged me to try to help him with an insurance company that wouldn't allow him to transfer insurance for one vehicle to another vehicle. He doesn't know about the law, he doesn't know who to turn to, he doesn't know how to start his own legal battle. When I told a lady the same thing a few days earlier about her case, then she suggested to me, so tell people to commit traders and businesses who provide us with services, that somewhere in a visible place there is a notice that the consumer has the right, the possibility of using the law to address it, that, on that phone, on that e-mail. Give us some instructions. Don't be so miserable as to hunt down agents on the street looking for help, and we could have been in some advanced phase of protecting our consumer rights a long time ago. I agree with my colleague Markovanovic. He mentioned a great show on TV. I agree with him, but that show is a drop in the sea. It can only select certain examples that are very good, warn consumers of their rights, and I think it is one big, big progress, and I thank those who are going on this show and thus help us to do this job properly. But I agree with my colleague Anticevic. Guys, sometimes we get more back from them than we do from helping them. They're both your partner and our partner. I hope you agree with me, Secretary of State. They're our partner. Not only in law making that we have to consult them, but throughout the period, always, every day. They will come to us with ideas, suggestions, they will pass on to us what is not good in the field. So let's look at them as partners. It bothers me very much that cities and municipalities no longer cooperate with associations of citizens protecting consumers. And they need to be treated differently. I am asked by a lady to ask you, since in the European Union it is permitted to use products based on GMO food origin. What is the situation in Croatia asking the lady? Is there a problem with selling such products? Are they marked? Is there any on our market? I agree with my colleague, Lesar, and often my citizens come to me because of the reckless stuff in the mailbox that destroys the mail, our letters, our accounts. They're simply putting aggressively clear these materials. What can we do, ask the citizens? Comrade Maric, I will finish your remarks. The meat of 10 years old ended up on the market. Comrade Maric, we don't have to go far. In our mess hall here in Parliament... The properties of some of the meat we eat are absolutely unsatisfactory. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know? Let's get out of here. If you're honest, you'll confirm it with both smell and taste. So, colleagues and colleagues, we have a lot of work to do together, let's not party, let's get to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32762	Thank you very much. We've come to the end of an individual debate. We have one application for a closing word on behalf of the club. In front of HDZ, the right to 5 minutes has a fellow representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32763	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here, I just wanted to say a few things. Namely, I'm personally, here's the thrill of this debate. I think she really covered a lot of things and it's clear that these amendments to the law won't be the last. Namely, we know well that traders will come up with a lot of good ideas. It's a great honor for our innovators who buy gold medals all over the world, but I think traders should be included in the category and they should be significant here. I must say, why do so many associations in the developed world? Why do they exist? Well, normally, their merchants work as well as ours, sell the product at all costs, so I think we've blacked out our traders too much, and they're actually acting the same as their colleagues in the world. It's true that consumption has dropped, but you need to get a little information in the banks. I've tried that, here in a few banks, is an extremely increased savings. So, and the amount of money on the cards they have. I have to say that this crisis and recession, however we combine, is welcome to many because they've started to think about what they're buying. It was shopping, we know, and there were loads of carts in every way possible. Now it's good to think and buy what they need. On the other hand, clearly that's where the budget gets hurt, but the victims always do. Next, there were a lot of proposals, good suggestions, quality suggestions. Here, it's good to have an amendment. I believe that what can be applied, which is good at it all, will be as usual and accepted. I was still going to say why there's so much credit, actually? We've heard of consumer loans. Namely, come here more and more often in front of any cash register. First, they're going to ask you if you want an interest-free loan for 3.6 months. So many take. Why would they pay now that they can take some wars and because of that, that's one of the reasons why the number of loans is increasing. There are probably those who can't do it differently, I don't doubt that. What's not nice to hear in all of this is that in this law, here's one part of the opposition councilmen he doesn't mention as guilty or this one, I'm saying a great team that adapts these laws, changes, all the time worries, helps, not even the government, but we're just saying all the time state this, state that. It's not a good state. I can only comment, it's hard to live in a country you don't like.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32764	Thank you very much. The final presentation was also requested by State Secretary Tamara Obradović Mazal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32765	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I promise you one last time, at least on this law. First of all, I absolutely thank everyone because our debate and our individual debate, everything we said, I think it only encourages people who follow us through television how important it is for us to fight for their rights. We cannot predict absolutely every life situation in which we will find ourselves because, as Mr Markovanovic said, we are all a bit inventive, and that we will see ourselves again relatively soon, at least next year is a fact because we are coming up with a new package of legal gains that we will have to take over in our Croatian legislation. I especially thank you for the last two individual discussions, Mr Bernardić and Mr Doric to you because I have heard that there are also some positive things in the law, so a step is recognised, yet some positive and progress is recognised. So it's not all as black as we had the chance to listen to the beginning of the morning, and that the step is progress and that this progress has been made, I repeat once again. In a permanent continuous daily dialogue with associations, if 7 things are not achieved because the specific requirements under number 3, 5, 6, 7 are requirements that go in the direction of derogating the Law on Mandatory Relations which regulate these matters, and as regards public services, legal and nomotechnically need to be intervened in all laws and tariffs at central and local level in order to achieve a concrete achievement of the requirement under the number, i.e. 6. So this law can't be a magic formula of a unilateral magic formula to solve the problems our consumers face at the central local level, if we have to intervene in a number of laws parallelly. If that's the deal, we can do it, it's the least of the problems. We must then be prepared for a package of at least twenty laws at once on the agenda, simultaneously discuss them and adopt them. For the purposes of this law, what we have tried to explain and find some middle road is that we cannot put out of force all the provisions of specific laws and all tariffs at the level of units of local self-government to achieve the effect that associations are currently looking for under that regular number. This way thanks again to associations, our NGOs and consumer protection alliances on support and to help with the important things we have managed to fight for ourselves, for Croatia, for Croatian consumers until the entry into the European Union. We've done this together, we've done this every day, every hour of consultation for the past three months, and thanks them very much, so you don't think that maybe you're shadowed by this debate, you don't think there's any dialogue and communication between us. In fact, as a common instrument of struggle, she was able to accomplish something that we wanted to succeed, something that we succeeded in. As far as financial support is concerned, I am thinking according to the latest some information that I have for the Croatian Consumer Protection Association that you mentioned and which is among other things in the consultant, part of Split and counselling site is a total talk of some 700 thousand kunas that we have allocated to the counselling community for the needs of the project. How they finance themselves because I heard we're giving very little money for the functioning of the organizations. We operate on the basis of competitions or the basis of the project. If the project is good, if it will have multiple effects, if it will produce results, if a large part of our consumers will be covered by it, we will give money to achieve such a project. I can mention one last to be led, which is informing consumers of the upcoming consumer credit law, so far ahead, the law hasn't even come to your benches yet, we've funded wide information on consumer loans and what that means. Also, in the consumer child protection segment when buying their products. Therefore, as good as a single project and as good as it will result in lenses or some central system that will provide data to consumers, we will, of course, be more keen and finance such projects. The trade court of counterpart Bernardic said the Trade Court is taking over a complete settlement. No, the Trade Court is an instance that is really in charge only of the question of resolving a collective lawsuit after whose power it acts ergaomnes against all consumers who do not even need to know that this lawsuit was even happening in the Trade Court and, as a domino effect, will have an impact on all pro futuro cases following the power of that decision. We still have the State Inspectorate and we still have alternative dispute resolution through the Court of Honor and the Peace Centres. I think there may have been some false interpretation of Article 132c. As far as the price below the purchase price is concerned, it is regulated by the Law on Trade so that if we come to some changes regarding the Law on Trade we will also try to include a proposal from the honourable parliamentary representative Marić. Once again thanks to absolutely everyone and of course announcing and accepting some of the amendments that we have received final further information absolutely. This burden is not only ours, this burden must also be shared by the Croatian Radio-Television as a public institution, it needs to find its interest in increasing the number of emissions that will be made available to consumers through round tables and organised by the Ministry of Economy with associations through perhaps your round tables. This is a subject that is very sensitive to all of us, we are all consumers, there are 4.5 million of us through maybe your campaigns on consumer awareness, as well as traders and through of course more intense and stronger, more systematic work and NGOs, alliances and counselling centres through whose hands as I have said, at least 18,000 individual appeals have been made to help them. Therefore, their work has been observed but we can never be satisfied enough with the ceiling we have reached. Now, in that segment, I thank you again for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32766	Thank you to the secretary of state. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32767	And now ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, please quorum to see if we can vote on any of the preceding agenda points. Please, let's get on with it. 82, it's actually 92. We have a quorum and we can start with a vote. First, the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z.E. No. 336. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. First of all, we will vote on a proposal for the conclusion of the SDP Representatives' Club, which reads: "The final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act will be carried out on a third reading." Would the proposaler's representative like to make a statement on this SDP proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32768	Thank you. Mr. President. The government does not accept the conclusion proposed. A number of amendments have been tabled, and a number of amendments have also been proposed through the competent committees and the Government itself has submitted a number of amendments which have a significant impact on the final proposal for this law. Therefore, we cannot accept the proposal to conduct the third reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32769	Thank you. I am voting on the SDP's proposal. Please, let's get involved and vote on a proposal from the SDP representative club that the government does not accept. Let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal was not accepted because it was voted by 30.1 abstention and 68 against. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted amendments. In accordance with Article 166. The Rules of Procedure on amendments submitted must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Who's in favour of having a debate on the government's amendments? Please raise your hands who's willing to conduct this debate? Thank you. Against? There isn't. Restraint? This proposal was accepted with most votes, 98 for and 1 abstention. I ask the applicant's representative to further explain the Government's amendments. The first amendment is to Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32770	Thank you, Mr. President. Here are the really intense talks and negotiations with the European Commission where the starting point is the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and Article 28. The Treaty on European Community in the context of negotiations for freedom of movement of goods. The basis and starting point of view of the European Commission that, at this point in time before membership in the European Union, Croatia should accept a legal gain in the part relating to at least 3 European Court of Justice rulings on the use of the national language in declarations, not only in all Member States but also in Croatia before entering the European Union. Starting with the importance of Croatian language for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, starting from a very recent history and fighting for Croatian language and marking of course Croatian, starting with our tradition, the habits of our consumers, accepting the case-law in a section that would already become a standard for our Croatian citizens before entering the European Union today, which is that in the product declarations we cannot use the Croatian language, that is, the Croatian language would be just one of the alternatives, only one option we rated unacceptable. We have entered into a lot of intensive negotiations with the European Commission and have referred to a number of current regulations, rules that we have so far been in place, in the context of further harmonisation of legislation, stressing the importance, visibility of Croatia's language to our Croatian consumers. Also referring to the practice of manufacturers, the practice of those who place products on the market, where today's practice and the conditions of the economic situation in which we live and work when the change in the declaration is on products and the additional cost for traders. In our intensive negotiations, we have reached agreement that the existing regime, therefore, must highlight product notices, product declarations, continue to be a Croatian language and Latin letter for the Croatian market. With this proposal, as we have formulated it with the first amendment to Article 9, the Croatian language and the Latin letter remains an obligation, an obligation that can be sanctioned. It remains in force until the entry into the European Union and with mandatory labelling of products in Croatian, we with signs, pictograms do not rule out the simultaneous use of some other languages that are easily understandable to the consumer. So, the premise and the starting basis of this Article 9 and the amendments that we are submitting and with very net and recent negotiations with the European Commission, this is the result, the outcome of our negotiations, which is the retention of the Croatian language until the entry into the European Union. The Government therefore submits an amendment to Article 9 which sums up our negotiations with the European Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32771	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am putting this amendment to the vote. By raising hands who's for amendment to government number one? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. This amendment was adopted unanimously with 105 votes. We are going to Amendment 2 to Article 66. Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32772	I would like to thank Mr President, given that we have summed up the same proposal in our first amendment to Article 9 in the same way as the wording in Article 66 of the amended subparagraph of Article 143, so it is a nomotechnical need for harmonisation of expressions in this article.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32773	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on this amendment. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on amendment number two, who's in favour? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. The amendment was accepted unanimously by 105 votes. Moving to Amendment 3. Governments on Article 68 which... Article 145 [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32774	For the same reasons, in order to sanction not to highlight the information about the product in Croatian, pictograms, symbols and what follows from the first amendment, we had to change the expression and Article 145 nomotechnically. And as we added the two subparagraphs of the procedure was nomotechnically quite demanding, we therefore proposed in one purified form the 3rd amendment to Article 68.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32775	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on Amendment 3. Government. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this amendment to a vote on who's asking to raise his hand? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. This amendment was adopted unanimously by 104 votes in favour. We move to Amendment 4 to Article 74.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32776	Thank you, Mr. President. On the day of entry into the European Union Article 74 will be activated, the Republic of Croatia will become part of the internal market of the European Union. In this case, the case-law of the European Court of Justice will also apply to Croatia on the date of its entry into the Union, in particular the three judgments relating to the mandatory highlighting of the national language. This amendment to Article 74 enables us to activate the norm that is in line with three European Court of Justice rulings which, with the Croatian language, the declaration on the product can be written in some other language that is easily understood by the consumer. In this case, on the day of entry into the European Union, the Croatian language becomes an option, ceases to be an obligation and thus we take over and become part of the legal practice of the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32777	Thank you. I'm opening debate four on the government's amendment. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal of this Fourth Amendment to the Government who's in favour? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. The government's 4th amendment was adopted unanimously by 104 votes. I ask Mrs Tamara Obradovic-Mazal to show herself about the other amendments as well. First, the amendment of the representative of Dragutin Lesar to Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32778	The Government does not accept that amendment, since that article is referred to by the Law on Mandatory Relations. It is not about narrowing consumer rights against advertising. We can't interpret it that way. We have implemented this proposal for an article a substantive alignment with the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations which, through 30 articles, in particular from 400 to 429, regulates consumer rights relating to the material disadvantages of the product and the guarantee of the correctness of the sold thing. Therefore, double standardisation regarding guarantees already governed by the Law on Mandatory Relations, of course, would violate that part and legal certainty, so we cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32779	Thank you. Mr. Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32780	I accept the argument given, for I have indeed found in the Law on Mandatory Relations such a provision. That's why I'm withdrawing the amendment, but I'll be happy by the end when we pass the law and set up a Consumer Protection Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32781	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. 2. Representatives also Mr Dragutin Lesar on Article 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32782	The government does not accept for the reason that Article 111(2) has been sanctioned precisely by the misleading failure of the trader if, even so, the trader hides important information on the product contained on the product notice. Therefore, what the honourable representative proposes through Article 6 is arranged through Article 111 and is subject to sanctioning.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32783	Thank you. Mr. Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32784	Thank you very much. Indeed, Article 111(2) prohibits the concealment of the product’s notice and the period of use, but I have not yet found in Articles 143 to 145 of the sanctions for breach of Article 111, so check this out. Thank you. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32785	This amendment has been withdrawn. 3. Amendment of the Legislative Committee to Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32786	In view of the amendments tabled by the Government, we believe that the amendment of the Legislative Committee in the way it was regulated by the amendment of the Government is consummating this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32787	Thank you. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32788	We're pulling back.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32789	This amendment has been withdrawn. 4th Amendment of Representative Dragutin Lesar to Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32790	The government doesn't accept. As regards the notification of the product, the provisions of Article 17 and the amendment of the Government relating to the highlighting of all relevant information on the product itself have been amended in such a way that the product notification must contain data regulated and specific regulations for certain product types such as food or medicinal products, and the rules of the European Community have been harmonised. And again, I refer to Article 111 of the law which is subject to sanctioning, depending on the context and circumstances of the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32791	Mr. Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32792	Here's the thing about this amendment, I'm staying and I'm asking for a vote. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32793	Thank you. Who is for this amendment to article 9 of Mr. Dragutin Lesar which the government does not accept? Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 5 of the same agent to Article 10
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32794	The government does not accept from the same arguments as on the previous proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32795	Mr. Lesar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32796	With the same explanation, I'm asking for a vote as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32797	I am putting this 5th amendment on the article of 10th Representative Dragutin Lesar to vote. Otherwise, the government doesn't accept it. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 6th Amendment of Representative Zdenko Franic to Article 24
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32798	The government does not accept for reasons why the implementation and definition of the additional activities, such as insurance companies or banks' services, are regulated in detail by specific regulations. Therefore, the applicant. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not consider that they need to be further or specifically summed up in public services within the meaning of the Consumer Protection Act. In the sense of the Consumer Protection Act, we consider all those services that represent a monopoly on the market and, consequently, it is necessary to use the same consumer rights protection. This would require nomotechnical intervention in all regulations, including sublegal acts which regulate specific services. Therefore, the Government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32799	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32800	Dear Madam Secretary of State, and so far in accordance with the legal decisions, it has been difficult to achieve consumer rights, especially in the domain of services that the legislator has not listed. These are, in addition to what you mentioned, telecommunications services, public postal services, passenger transport services in public urban transport, maintenance of cleanliness and delivery of natural gas, etc. Well, at least you accepted one of those favors. Moreover, the state has also delegated public transport services through banks, which is, unfortunately, not regulated by the Consumer Protection Act. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32801	Thank you. Who's for this amendment number six? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Other amendments number 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 are representatives of Zdenko Franic, so please do not repeat it many times. Here are the 7th Amendments to Article 24.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32802	The government doesn't accept. In fact, what is proposed is that the Consumers Act conducts a way and a calculation towards real consumption, and I remind you that for example in municipal activities, in municipal services, if we are to be specific, municipal service from the driving of municipal waste has its own tariff, it also depends on how it regulates not only the Law on the municipal economy but also on each individual local self-government because of its specificities. Therefore, in this way we are entering the jurisdiction not only of the standard which is in charge of each individual tariff system that occurs, but also of the jurisdiction of determining the tariff of units of local self-government. For example, I remind myself of the pilot project bar encoding trash cans when it actually really pays the price, depending on what is in that can. So this proposal would actually be a gold cut that we would enter not only in a series of regulations and tariffs but also in the jurisdiction of local self-government units to determine and regulate their tariffs in particular. Also, the government does not accept the 8th amendment of MP Zdenko Franic... and I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32803	We'll come forward for the 7th Amendment. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32804	Unfortunately, your argument does not fully stand because some units of local self-government really charge for, for example, waste according to the actual amount of waste produced. With such a legal solution, consumers will continue to pay certain services which they did not actually use. Therefore, consumers should not be allowed, services not provided should not be charged. Certainly and should not be allowed to do so, the Croatian Parliament is responsible for units of local self-government, therefore, which is relevant if the adoption of this amendment would require corrections and certain implementing rules. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32805	Thank you. Who's for this amendment number seven? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Switching to Amendment 8 of the same agent to Article 24(7)?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32806	The government does not accept that the problem of the commission is as proposed under Article 24(7) of the applicable law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32807	Thank you. Mr. Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32808	The commission should be at the service provider's headquarters. For example. HEP has a distribution area in each county and has 21 committees, and decisions can be different for the same cases. If there were one commission, decisions would be unique to the same cases, and the work of the commission could include lawyers of service providers as professional persons, as without the right to vote in order to safeguard legality. Here, I'm also asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32809	Thank you. Who is for this amendment to Article 24(7)? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 9th Amendment of the same agent to Article 26(1)?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32810	The government doesn't accept. According to the applicable law, if the trader conditiones the purchase of the product and usually it is high-value products, i.e. high-value goods such as apartments, furniture or car, conditions the purchase of the product, or the delivery of the product if it is carried out after 30 days agreed on for 30 days, it is necessary to account for the consumer and to pay the interest at the interest rate of the trader's commercial bank for the savings stakes carried out for a period of 3 months. For the consumer, this means that for money he could not afford, due to the terms of purchase of a particular product, for which the trader is late to be delivered, he will receive interest as if he had set up that amount in the bank for 3 months.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32811	Thank you. Mr. Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32812	It is, but it's a huge disproportion in interest. For example, the consumer can be charged to the bank to pay something, the bank takes 15% of his interest, and the trader gives him 3 or 5% of the interest on the amount of interest for the savings. Thus, by not delivering the service, the trader consciously retains the consumer's money and earns 10 per cent on not taking a loan from the bank, but rather taking a deposit from the consumer. Thus, such a legal solution actually encourages traders to continue to seek money in advance for services that have not been delivered. This is particularly important in buying larger properties, apartments, etc. And as I said from this brief example, the consumer can also be damaged by 10%. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32813	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to the 10th Amendment of the same representative to Article 26?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32814	The government doesn't accept. In fact, the current provisions of the Consumer Protection Act allow the consumer to argue with the trader one part of the account, i.e. one account for the total amount, a total range of services that the trader gives him to create a dispute between consumers and traders over only one account where the consumer can start a dispute using non-judicial dispute resolution institutes financed from the state budget. The consumer trader, and that is the point of consumer protection in this article, must not, while the consumer is having a dispute over a slow-delivered account, suspend the provision of services until the court, or extrajudicial procedure for the contested account is completed. Therefore, the Government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32815	Thank you. Mr. Zdenko Franic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32816	Therefore, the consumer should not be the one to initiate court proceedings. It must be a trader because it must prove that the consumer is wrong. And this legal solution automatically implies that the trader is right. This amendment would make it impossible for service providers to, for example, avoid paying bills that consumers dispute, we are often witnesses and the situation pays first and complains about one-off bills, such as fixed or mobile telephones, and until the end of the River, the consumer remains suspended for the service. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32817	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 11th Amendment to Article 29 of the same agent?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32818	The government doesn't accept. Namely, the trader must clearly point out his sales conditions in his sales space. It also points out its general operating conditions that must comply with the Consumer Protection Act at points of sale for products or services it places. In that case, when buying such a service that can be time-limited, the consumer must be aware of all the rights and obligations when buying such a service and thus knowingly either enters or does not enter into a shopping relationship with the trader. Furthermore, all sales conditions of the trader must be highlighted in the sales venues visiblely, the consumer must be aware of them explicitly before entering the buy-in relationship, and the trader may further regulate its sales conditions with its general operating conditions in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32819	Thank you. Mr. Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32820	In practice, it happens to buy, say, a ticket for public transport which, after the collection, ceases to be valid or a mobile telephony voucher that ceases to apply after 3 months if you haven't used it, which may indeed be mentioned in some general terms, but these general conditions are the embodies written in microscopic letters, so that in practice it can be really difficult and someone can manage it. By resolving such acceptance of this amendment, the consumer would have the right to recover funds or part of the funds to the part of the service that he did not use. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32821	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 12 of the same agent to Article 46
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32822	The government doesn't accept. In particular, Article 46 of the applicable law shall be amended as regards the termination of the contract. I call again on the Mandatory Relations Act. If no confirmation of previous notification has been delivered and it is a long-distance contract. I also remind you of Article 43, which is detailed on which prior to the conclusion of a distance contract, the trader must inform the consumer, including as part of the information, the time limit for the delivery of the product, i.e. the provision of the service. If it does contrary to these provisions, a fine shall be prevented for a trader who does not provide all the necessary information to the consumer for the conclusion of this contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32823	Mr. Zdenko Franic. Here you go. ... Who's in favour of this amendment? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 13th Amendment of the Committee on Economy to Article 54
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32824	Amendment 13 to Article 54 includes the additions of new paragraphs 5 and 6 in a way that reads "costs of procedure before the Court of Honor of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Court of Honor of the Croatian Chamber of crafts as referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be co-financed from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia". In this way, since a public tender will lead to the selection of one-sided settlement centres that will be the most qualified to resolve consumer disputes and thus obtain the conditions for obtaining financial support from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, we allow existing courts of honor that are already in charge of calming down in front of the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce in a way parallel action and enabling the peace centres to make funds from the state budget through a public tender.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32825	The Committee on the Economy. Mr Kovacevic, amended amendment accepted. It shall be accepted in such a modified form as the State Secretary has quoted. Thank you. We are moving to the 14th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives to Article 66.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32826	As regards the amendments to Article 66, the amendment to Article 66(2) of subparagraph 3 shall be adopted, but note that the remainder of the proposed amendment is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32827	Thank you. On behalf of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32828	I'm withdrawing on this section covered by the amendment to the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32829	So that part that's covered by the government's amendment you're pulling. Thank you. 15th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives to Article 67
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32830	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32831	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 16. The Committee on Legislatives shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32832	Consumed by the government's amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32833	It's settled, so you're pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32834	It's been consumed.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32835	It was consumed in the government's amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32836	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32837	You're pulling. Thank you. 17th Amendment of Representative Dragutin Lesar to Article 68
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32838	The government accepts in a way to delete the decimal and add the following text. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 34 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32839	Mr. Lesar is this. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32840	Here I have an assistant in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32841	In Article 68, it is a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32842	I am very pleased that you have accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32843	He accepts. In this form. Thank you. The amendment was accepted as the State Secretary explained. 18th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives to Article 74
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32844	Consumed by the government's amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32845	Consumed by the government's amendment and you withdraw.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32846	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32847	This amendment number 18 shall be withdrawn. 19th Zdenko Franić, Article 77
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32848	The government does not accept the area of consumer credit. It will be governed by a special regulation of the Consumer Credit Act, whose adoption is under way as much information as I have.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32849	Thank you. Mr. Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32850	Dear Madam Secretary of State, with due respect and anticipating the Credit Act, would still not be burned if we put such a legal solution here, because lenders are now changing the interest rates that consumers may not be able to pay. In this case, the consumer should also have the possibility to repay the loan once, for example without consequences for him, which is not the case so far. Instead, in the event of early termination of the loan, the loan must be paid by different foames, and the loan was taken under one condition, and the lender shall change the terms and conditions of the loan. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32851	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I 20th Amendment of the same agent to Article 124.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32852	The government doesn't accept. I would remind myself of the code of positive practice of standards and criteria for achieving financial support to programmes and projects of associations adopted by the Croatian Parliament in February 2007, which prescribes the procedure and principles of approval of financial and other support for civil society. It is also prescribed by Article 124 of this Law that the bodies of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government should systematically promote consumer protection in their fields and support the activities of consumer protection organisations. The way in which a unit of local self-government will promote consumer protection in its area cannot be subject to this law, but also to the subject matter and budget and, of course, by decision of the body of the units of local self-government. Whether it will be a deduction of rent, a deduction of directorial costs or a free use of some space. Of course, we cannot affect such a business decision by the local self-government unit. Speaking of this amendment, I welcome at least three cities whose area is covered by consumer protection counselling centres, which are very supportive of both renting and discounting directorial costs. I would also like this to be the case with the City of Zagreb, which as a unit of local self-government also needs to be further stimulated to promote consumer protection systems. The government doesn't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32853	Mr. Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32854	Madam Secretary of State, I'm glad you recognized the good intensity in this amendment. And the fact is that some local self-governments have already recognised the importance of the activities of the Consumer Protection Association. The intensity of this amendment was simply to stimulate the bodies of local and regional self-government to provide space for the activities and work of consumer protection associations in accordance with their capabilities, and by the reputation of these units that you have just mentioned. I think one more systematic solution would show the good will and importance of the activities of the Consumer Protection Associations for the overall benefit of all of us citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32855	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you to the secretary of state. I am now voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The bill was passed by a majority vote with 75 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 21 against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32856	Now we're going to the next item on the agenda. - Final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union's Rule of Law Mission in Kosovo, EULEX Kosovo, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 319 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. Ivica Buconjic in front of the Croatian Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32857	Thank you very much. Madam Chairman. Just a brief explanation not so much of this agreement-confirmation law but of the complete activities carried out by the MUP in the field of international relations and peace missions. On 18 February 2008, the Secretary General of the European Union invited the Republic of Croatia to discuss the status of so-called third countries include in the implementation of a new European Union-led mission with the mandate to ensure support for Kosovo authorities in their efforts to establish a sustainable and functional system of rule of law. This is important to point out that Croatia as the third non-member country of the European Union has received an invitation to include EULEX mission in Kosovo, all of which is the result of the so far excellent results achieved by the Ministry of the Interior in peacekeeping missions around the world. Currently, the Republic of Croatia participates in five peace missions worldwide with 14 police officers. Most of them are in East Timor Six, Cyprus Four, Afghanistan Two and Haiti One. And in Kosovo, EULEX mission will be sent by one employee to prepare three more. This is all evidence that the Republic of Croatia or the police of the Ministry of the Interior has indeed come a very large way in several years and that police officers of the Ministry of the Interior everywhere where they have been in the composition of peacekeeping missions around the world have shown a very high degree of professionalism, expertise and responsibility, and in all these missions they take up mostly management posts precisely because of their professionalism, expertise and responsibility. Croatian police have also become an active participant in peace and justice worldwide since the observation. And that is why we suggest that this law be passed on confirming the agreement, to be adopted in an urgent procedure so that Croatian police officers can move on to this mission to establish the rights and form of police forces as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32858	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I can see they're gone. That means they don't want to. I'm opening a debate. We have two applications in front of two clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, MP Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32859	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The proposed law confirms the agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union's rule of law mission in Kosovo, in order to make its provisions within the meaning of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to point out immediately that the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law. The Republic of Croatia was also involved in the process of establishing and developing a professional and independent Kosovo national police through a United Nations mission in Kosovo before the establishment of a European Union rule of law mission in Kosovo. And in June 2008, our government decided to give consent to the involvement of police officers of the interior ministry in the European Union's mission to establish the rule of law in Kosovo. In order to establish a framework that regulates the legal position more closely, and the rights and obligations related to this participation in November 2008 an agreement was concluded in Brussels between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on our participation in this mission. The agreement is the result of a joint desire to establish, promote and deepen mutual cooperation in the field of participation of the Republic of Croatia in peace missions led by the European Union with the ultimate aim of including the Republic of Croatia in the implementation of a new peace mission led by the European Union. In the relations between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union, this Agreement constitutes an additional element of improving and deepening mutual cooperation. The Agreement itself regulates the framework for participation in the mission, the legal position of staff, the treatment of classified data, the chain of command and accountability, the financial aspects, the issue of conclusion of implementing arrangements, and the mechanism in the event of failure to comply with the obligations of the agreement as well as the mechanism for resolving possible disputes. It is important to point out that the Council of the European Union adopted a joint action in February 2008 on the European Union mission. A call was made to the Republic of Croatia for participation in the mission. A decision of the political and security committee was taken in February 2008 confirming the invitation to the Republic of Croatia for our participation. The process of forming forces has also been successfully completed, and is recommended to the European Union Civil Operations Commander and to the Committee on Civil aspects of crisis management on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in this mission. A decision was made on the Republic of Croatia in July 2008 on the participation of our police officers in this mission. The Republic of Croatia will timely inform the Commander for Civil Operations of the European Union and the Head of EULEX Kosovo of any changes in our contribution to this mission, the legal position of the staff that the Republic of Croatia assigns in this mission has been governed by the provisions on the legal position of the mission and the Republic of Croatia has jurisdiction with its... that participates in the mission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Republic of Croatia shall be responsible for responding to any requests made by its staff or relating to its staff regarding participation in the mission. The Republic of Croatia shall also be responsible for the initiation of any proceedings, judicial or prudential against any member of its staff in accordance with its own regulations. The agreement obliges the Republic of Croatia to make a statement on the waiver of the request to any country participating in EULEX Kosovo at the time of signing the agreement. The statement is an addendum to the agreement. The Member States of the European Union undertake to make a statement concerning the withdrawal of requests for the participation of the Republic of Croatia in EULEX Kosovo at the time of signing the agreement. All personnel participating in this mission shall remain under the full command of their national authorities. National authorities shall transfer operational surveillance to the Civilian Operation Commander who shall exercise command and control at strategic level. The Head of Mission shall assume responsibility and exercise command and supervision at EULEX Kosovo at operational level. The Head of Mission shall exercise command and control over staff, teams and units from the State of the aid provider. In accordance with the instructions received by the Civilian Operation Commander, and has administrative and logistical responsibility over the assets, assets and information made available to the mission. The Republic of Croatia shall have the same rights and obligations in terms of day-to-day operation management as the Member States of the European Union participating in the operation. The Head of Mission shall be responsible for the tight surveillance of staff. In the event of a need, the competent national authority shall take a firm measure. The Republic of Croatia appoints a national contingent leader representing our national contingent. The decision to complete the operation shall be taken by the European Union after consulting the Republic of Croatia, provided that the Republic of Croatia is still participating in this mission at the time of the completion of the operation. The Republic of Croatia shall bear all costs in its participation in the operation other than those subject to joint financing as set out in the operational budget of the operations. In the event of death, injury, loss or damage to the local population or legal persons from the country from which the operation of the Republic of Croatia is carried out, after determining its obligation to pay compensation in accordance with the conditions laid down in the provisions on the legal position of the mission. The arrangements for the implementation of the Agreement and any necessary technical and administrative answers related to the implementation of the Agreement shall be concluded by the relevant bodies of the Republic of Croatia and by the Secretary-General of the Council of the European Union or by a representative of the common foreign security policy. In the event that one of the parties fails to fulfil its obligations under the agreement, the other Party shall have the right to terminate this Agreement by written notice, diplomatically through a month in advance. Disputes concerning the interpretation or application of this Agreement shall be settled by diplomatic means between parties. As I said before, the agreement contains an addition to the statement. The Republic of Croatia, as a participant of the European Union's mission to establish the rule of law in Kosovo, will seek to the extent to which its legal order allows it to be waived to the greatest extent possible by the request of any other State participating in this mission for injury, death of its staff or damage to loss or any property owned by EULEX Kosovo, where such injury, death, damage or loss has caused personnel to carry out their duties in connection with EULEX Kosovo. Except in the case of extreme negligence or intent or resulting from the use of any property owned by the States participating in EULEX Kosovo if such property was used in connection with the operation. And except in cases of extreme negligence or the intentions of staff, EULEX Kosovo used that property. In order to avoid confusion, such a statement shall also be made by all other Member States of the European Union participating in this mission. Since participation of members and Croatian Armed Forces, in this case of Croatian police, Croatian police officers, is a further opportunity to strengthen the reputation of the Republic of Croatia in the world because Croatia has determined to contribute to the establishment of peace, legal order in Europe and the world, we believe this is another contribution, a strong affirmation of Croatia in the international community and will therefore support the adoption of this law by the Croatian Democratic Community.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32860	Thank you very much. And we have on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, MP Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32861	Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Roncevic has done a technical and operational part, so I will no longer interfere with it to cut the maximum, and I will remain in that political part. Maybe just two details. First of all, regarding this opening part, Mr. Secretary of State, he's busy with his cell phone. I'll read you colleagues and colleagues from chapter 2 at the bottom of the last sentence. In the relations between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union, this Agreement constitutes an element of further improvement and deepening of mutual cooperation. The whole text was written in that context. Are we joining this initiative to appear in the European Union as a good partner or do we primarily want to help the new state of Kosovo? There's almost no mention of that. That's not good. It's wrong, it's very wrong. Since the day of recognition of Kosovo's independence by the Republic of Croatia, we have no need exclusively through such a UN or EU mission to appear in Kosovo. We can also help, work directly there, but I personally believe that Zagreb should know much better the opportunities and the difficulties in Kosovo than Brussels. And if we could have done it long ago, I would have liked to hear about whether and how many bilateral agreements we signed with Kosovo regarding co-operation at the university, the establishment of a rule of law, the education of their lawyers, their officers, their employees. Please. Did we do it? Did we help them with legal legislation, law in the field, I don't know, fighting corruption, crime, tax policy, customs policy, public procurement, etc., etc., etc. This is all the area that we can make independently of the European Union, directly with Kosovo, to make such agreements, to help and to make it clear that it has both its economic dimension and everything else. Unfortunately, I'm saying, there's no such thing in the opening part, we don't find anything in that sense. Furthermore, the law goes according to urgent procedure, colleagues and colleagues. A year ago, the government agreed that we were going in a direction, a year ago, six months ago, an agreement was signed, and it's only now coming to our benches and suddenly it's urgent. That's illogical. We always do the same thing over and over again. It doesn't make sense. Financial aspects. It says in the opening section that the Republic of Croatia does not have, I can't find it now, but you have seen whether, therefore, no special, here, this law does not create specific financial obligations for which additional funding should be provided. Article 5 of the Agreement, the Republic of Croatia shall bear all costs related to its participation in the operation, except for the costs, etc. So we don't understand why and how these parts of the text differ significantly? Finally, something I personally want to say here, this is not my club's position not to answer twice. When it comes to helping the Republic of Croatia, we see that the European Union is unable to do anything at this time. We cannot continue negotiations, we cannot continue joining, we cannot become a full member, we cannot benefit from the common market, we cannot use structural funds. Every single individual, every family, every company in Croatia suffers damage. But when it comes to helping a military mission, a mission to the police, a mission to any European Union, we are immediately ready. My colleagues and colleagues, I think maybe we should have sent some other signals today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32862	Thank you very much. There are no more reports for discussion. The applicant's representative no longer wishes to take the floor. I close the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32863	Final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union Mission to establish the rule of law in Kosovo, EULEX KOSOVO, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. It was 319. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on this final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was adopted unanimously by 87 votes in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32864	We are going to the next item, the 3rd item of the agenda - Final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose stay is illegal, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 320 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This legislative proposal will be discussed in an emergency procedure. The emergency procedure combines the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. Once again, Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary at the Interior Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32865	Thank you very much. The same short explanation since I consider it necessary to point out that the Ministry of the Interior, therefore the Republic of Croatia, also achieves good results in the area of illegal migration. This law confirms the Agreement between the Slovak Republic and the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Government. This is a confirmation of a readmission contract for persons whose stay was illegal in the territory of the Republic of Croatia or Slovakia. I will only say that the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Ministry of Interior, is achieving ever-increasing results in the control of illegal migration and in the fight against illegal migration. In 2000, 24 180 foreign nationals were found in the Republic of Croatia in an illegal residence in the Republic of Croatia. After that, each year the number is getting smaller and smaller, so that last year in Croatia there would be 2013 foreigners in an illegal residence in the Republic of Croatia, and this year in the first 4 months compared to 4 months last year, the number is even smaller. All this proves that the Republic of Croatia, or the competent Ministry of Interior, in particular the Directorate of the Border Police, is reaching more and more standards and that we are already very close and we are also establishing and respecting the Schengen European criteria regarding border control and surveillance, as the external border of the Republic of Croatia will become the external border of the European Union very soon. Of course, all of this was possible because the last few years, four, five years of equipment needed to successfully monitor the border was obtained for the needs of the Border Police Administration, so several dozen types of thermal devices of all kinds were obtained from stationary via mobiles. We have also equipped three international border crossings with the necessary equipment to import into the European Union's information system and there is also an ongoing supply of much more necessary technical and equipment to ensure that Croatian border police, when entering the European Union, will indeed be closely monitored, controlled and protected as the external border of the European Union. This is why we propose also the adoption of this law and the confirmation of the readmission agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Slovakia. Croatia has 24 readmission agreements with 26 countries, this will be the 25th agreement, and we believe that the adoption of this law on confirmation of the agreement, or the agreement itself, will contribute even further to bringing this growing number of foreign citizens who find themselves in an illegal stay in the Republic of Croatia back to their countries of origin quickly without needless waste of time and creating additional costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32866	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, MP Marija Pejcinović-Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32867	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, as we heard from the State Secretary's presentation, it is very clear intensities and what the confirmation of this agreement serves, so above all, to increase the security of citizens belonging to the Republic of Croatia as well as in other democratically decorated countries in very high-ranking priorities. This is precisely what has been strengthened by the fact that the Republic of Croatia is a candidate for membership in the European Union and that the area of migration falls within one of those issues that is being promoted so-called. strengthening cooperation between Member States as well as between Member States and the future Member States was the reason why it went to sign the Agreement on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose stay is illegal between the Republic of Croatia and the Slovak Republic. The European Union faced with the fact that there has been a drastic increase in illegal immigration in the last ten years has begun to develop some common principles but also directives relating to this area. Thus, a year ago, the European Parliament confirmed the so-called The Return Directive, which provides a framework for the return of illegal immigrants coming from third countries in the Schengen area. The fundamental principles that the European Union has led to in the drafting of this Directive are to obtain a uniform standard which, at the same time, and I think it is extremely important to guarantee the safety of its own citizens or the space of security within the internal borders but also guarantees respect for the human rights of those for whom a return is sought. It is in that spirit and with that purpose that this agreement was made. At the moment Croatia and Slovakia agreed to regulate this matter by bilateral interstate agreement and when Croatia becomes a member of the European Union and a member of the Schengen area, these issues will be subject to the national and European legislation that will then be appropriate. Here, first of all, I am thinking about the possibility of further amending and supplementing the acquis of the European Union and, accordingly, of harmonising national legislation with the same. Until then, an agreement will replace the one we had signed in 94, which concerned only the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the Slovak Republic, which will allow for the extension of competence to third-country nationals as well as the more effective implementation of the necessary measures concerning the reception and surrender of persons whose stay is illegal. Finally, when it comes to relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Slovak Republic, this agreement will contribute to further improving and deepening relations between our two countries. Due to all this, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support that agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32868	Thank you to my colleague Maria. On behalf of the Club of HNS MP Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32869	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club will support this Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose stay is illegal, with the final proposal for a law. My colleague Burić Pejcinović explained in addition what was given to us in the opening explanation here, the reasons why this agreement should be adopted, primarily because of the harmonisation of the standards in the area of migration policy and we are absolutely for it. However, we would ask the Secretary of State to explain to us three sentences that we could not fully understand, at least not in the context of the preceding text and the next one, so give us a little help. I'll read you those three sentences. On page 5 of Article 3(3), point (a) is replaced by the following: Namely, we do not know how Croatia would issue a visa for entry into Slovakia by one citizen of Armenia, or if it is about persons without citizenship or refugees. Just let us know what that's about. Furthermore, Article 8.c.: ‘The Contracting Party from which transit is required may refuse transit on the basis of the health of citizens, national security, public order and other national interests of the State of the Contracting Party from which transit is required’. Both third and last, Article 14(4): ‘The provisions of this Agreement shall not apply in the case of legal aid in the case of extradition and transport of convicts between Contracting Parties’. Last one more observation, you don't have to comment on that. We have received a contribution to the revision of the text of the agreement in the original in Croatian. Is that a mistake? That text is identical to this text right here. He's identical. If you were going to help us possibly pro futuro then it stands in Article 16 in case of differences in interpretation is relevant text in English, so you at least give us text in English that we have it in the archives etc. But twice repeating the same text, I think it's groundless. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32870	We don't have any more logs. But the proposing official, State Secretary Ivica Buconjic, wants to take the floor.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32871	So here's just a little bit. Three questions were hard to track. It's clear here that it's a deal. Both Contracting Parties, i.e. the Contracting Parties and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Slovakia, of course, had to coordinate this agreement with their internal legal order, so that this agreement is the result and the fruit of exactly harmonising legal order and institutes that regulate these issues and as regards... /The speaker does not understand./... the missions of third-country nationals who have a visa. This is referred to in Article 5(1), subparagraph B. This shall also apply to your question referred to in Article 8 paragraph 1 of the first subparagraph C. And this Article 14(4). Therefore, this agreement must be taken into account and this agreement is a fruit of negotiations and of compliance with the legal denials of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovakia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32872	Thank you very much. Since it's gone, yeah. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, MP Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32873	Madam Vice President, I want to correct the incorrect allegations. Namely, it's about Article 3a. about persons who have a visa, but the key thing is that the visa was issued to them by the Contracting Party. It's about third countries, third-country nationals. How can Croatia issue a third-country national a visa to enter Slovakia? I guess that's what the diplomatic representations of Slovakia issue, not Croatia. I don't get it. I couldn't tell myself what that sentence meant. But I'm saying, I realize it's not possible for you to get into the details now, and I don't insist. But it's illogical and we couldn't figure it out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32874	Thank you very much. No more reports. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32875	12., Final proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose stay is illegal. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 320. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of this law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This bill was adopted unanimously by 87 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32876	Now we have reached the fourth item of the agenda, which according to its content, that is, the area it edits is completely identical to the point of the five agenda. It's about confirming a contract with two different countries. That's why there are two bills of law. I suggest we unify the debate on these two points. Does anyone mind? There isn't. Thank you very much. Then let's get these laws done. - Final draft law confirming the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the exchange and mutual protection of classified data, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 317 - Final proposal for a law confirming the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on mutual protection of classified data, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. You received 318 acts by mail. When we set the agenda, we agreed on an emergency procedure. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Information, Information and Media, and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He wants it anyway. State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32877	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Indeed very briefly, because we have already been one of these laws on confirming such a contract a few months ago in this House, and it was the Law on confirming such a contract with the Republic of Bulgaria. Today we are here in front of you with the bill of approval of the exchange agreement and mutual protection of classified data. Such a contract was concluded by or representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with representatives of the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on 14 November 2008 and on 19 December with representatives of the Republic of Albania. So, with representatives of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania. These contracts regulate the exchange and mutual protection of classified data. What's that data? This is the data that require a certain degree of protection and a certain degree of protection against unauthorised access to that data. This Treaty regulates in detail the way this protection is achieved, the way that these data that are created in the communication of states, which are actually exchanged and already created, as these data are protected, which is the degree of protection, which is the degree of confidentiality of these data. This Treaty also defines which bodies are from the two participating countries, the means of cooperation of experts. Therefore, one legal framework is set out in order to implement this contract. We are here to say a few months ago in this House we regulated this issue regarding the Republic of Bulgaria. Today we propose this for Albania and the Republic of Macedonia. And there's actually a whole set and series with other countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32878	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, representative Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32879	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, Madam Secretary of State. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the proposal of these two laws, the Law on the confirmation of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the mutual protection and exchange of classified data with the Final Proposal for the Law as a logical sequence of the overall arrangement of the information security area. In 2007, the Republic of Croatia adopted a series of legal and sublegal acts governing the area of information security, such as the Data Privacy Act, the Information Security Act, the Security Checks Act, the Information Security Measures Regulation, as well as a series of regulations. The Information Security Act lays down the measures and standards of information security which provide for the establishment of specific funds for classified data submitted by the Republic of Croatia to another country, i.e. an international organisation or institution with which the Republic of Croatia cooperates. The Republic of Croatia is also a member of a series of conventions and international agreements that regulate state co-operation in order to exchange data and information, mainly in cooperation in the fight against corruption and organised crime, the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, the processing of war crimes, but also in a number of civil-law relations, and here, and now in the light of the new Bill on Police Authorities and Jobs, which also contains a regulation of the exchange of police classified and personal data, will be interesting all such bilateral international agreements. It is therefore an imminent need for the State to negotiate through bilateral agreements specific relations and rules of mutual protection of classified data that arise together or be exchanged between parties. As the Secretary of State has already said, this Treaty lays down identical degrees of secrecy, obligations relating to national measures for the protection of classified data, the competent central authorities of the countries for the implementation of this contract and the mechanisms for the transmission of classified data and the way in which they are handled shall be determined. As I said a few months ago when we discussed confirming the Treaty Act with the Bulgarian Republic that it would be a guideline for further bilateral agreements, here, now that has happened. Today we accept the treaty, confirm the Treaty with Macedonia and Albania, and further negotiations with other European countries are being prepared. Finally, with the aim of effective international cooperation in data exchange and protection, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of these laws in order to become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32880	Thank you very much. We have one application for individual debate, MP Ivo Grbic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32881	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Based on the National Plan for the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union for 2008, 2007 and 2008 a series of legal and sub-legislative regulations have been adopted which are governed in a unique and comprehensive manner by an area of information security, thus establishing a basis for establishing professional standards for adequate regulation of the protection of classified data both internally and internationally. This need for an international exchange of information classified or marked under national legislation by one of the laws of defined degrees of secrecy stems from close foreign-political relations between states and an increased need for mutual and coordinated action to address modern issues, which often, by their complexity and comprehensiveness, exceed national frameworks. Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the exchange and mutual protection of classified data, signed in Zagreb on 14 November 2008, as well as the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania, the mutual protection of classified data signed on 19 December... A legal basis has been established to ensure the protection of classified data common to be created or exchanged between the Contracting Parties whether this is a matter of determining the degree of secrecy, obligations concerning national measures for the protection of classified data or the determination of competent authorities for the implementation of the contract, transfer mechanisms and treatment of classified data, arrangements for visits and meetings of experts and procedures in the event of security violations, as well as issues of costs incurred in the implementation of the contract. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since certain technical errors have been observed in the text of the originals in the Croatian language since the signing of the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia with regard to the texts of the originals in Macedonian and English, the exchange of notes of embassies, in accordance with Article 79. The Vienna Conventions on the Law of International Contracts reached a diplomatic agreement on correcting errors in the text of a contract published in the final draft of the law. For this reason, and since the Croatian Parliament confirms the contracts, it appears that the formal consent of the Republic of Croatia is to be bound by this Treaty, I support the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of Classified Data, as well as the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the Mutual Protection of Classified Data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32882	Thank you very much. We don't have any more reports for this point. A representative of the government doesn't want to take his word for it. I'm closing the debate, and we'll be voting hopefully soon when the conditions come to pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32883	The final draft law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the exchange and mutual protection of classified data was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 317. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of this law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was passed by most votes, 90 votes for, 1 abstention, nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32892	As planned, we're going to the next item on the agenda, 6. - Final proposal for a law to put an end to the Law on the Taking over of the Law on the resolution of conflict of law and conflict of jurisdiction in the enforcement of criminal sanctions, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 324 The draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The legislative proposal will be discussed in an urgent process that unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was held in the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. State Secretary at the Department of Justice, Mr. Zoran Piculjan.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32893	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's really very short. It's a law of a long name that hasn't been applied for an extremely long time. The method and mechanism of HITROREZ and its unnecessity were observed for the reason that this matter was governed by Croatian legislation, bilateral agreements and convention law. That's why this law should be put out of force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32894	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. We only have two applications. One is on behalf of the SDP representative club, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32895	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. There is no doubt that the SDP club supports the adoption of this bill, it is of a technical nature. It has nothing to do with HITROREZ, though, because HITROREZ was founded to cut unnecessary obstructions in the administration and in any law, and this law died by passing the Penal Code. However, speaking of this, we must also point out this occasion that we do not need or by government and government representatives, and by the minister of the performance of specific cases and the warming of people, hope that something will happen that will not happen. According to existing legislation, Croatia even has a constitutional solution, as well as neighbouring countries on the non-delivery of persons convicted under the existing law, even when the law is amended, this will not happen for those cases backwards. However, this occasion raises the question of what Croatia is doing with those people who have been sent to the shelter and who are convicted and are in the Republic of Croatia and are free as birds. If it is not possible to submit them, the question arises why the Law on Criminal Procedure and the basic principle of equal treatment on which our country is also obliged and can initiate proceedings for persons regardless of nationality, especially when Croatian citizens have done the work in another country and at the expense of another country but according to this principle can be tried. But obviously there's no political will for it. For 84 persons who have Croatian citizenship, who have received under who knows what conditions of the 1990s and have found refuge in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32896	Hey, buddy, hold on a second. I'm asking you a minimum.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32897	So the question arises why there is no political will to solve these cases, that if these persons cannot currently be extradited to trial because it is possible under existing laws. On the other hand, political will is manifested in order to calm the public down, so that it would be better to do so, that Croatia will do everything possible to have some individuals extradited from the neighbouring republic, specifically from Bosnia and Croatia when it is known that it cannot be done. Such performances are not needed by the Republic of Croatia or by the Government, but we need to change the legislation in any case and the Constitution to resolve these matters. That Croatia would not be a haven only for those who received citizenship and even a frequent and false residence so that they could vote, so that they could get different incentives and what is worst to find refuge from prosecution or from the execution of prison sentences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32898	Mr. Ivo Grbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32899	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The law on the resolution of the conflict of law and the conflict of jurisdiction in the enforcement of criminal sanctions in the Republic of Croatia has resolved conflicts of jurisdiction between the former republics of the then state. In view of the fact that the execution of a prison sentence is unique for the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia and that it concerns other countries with the grounds for the application of international acts or the Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons and Protocols in accordance with the Convention of the Law on International and Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters and bilateral contracts, there is no need to apply the Law on the Takingover of the Law on the Resolution of Conflicts of Laws and Jurisdictions in the exercise of criminal sanctions and more so as to be laid down in the conduct of the examination procedure by HITRREZ on the list of rules which are unnecessary and which should be put out of force. For this reason, I support the adoption of the Law on Putting Off the Power of the Law on the Taking over of the Law on the Resolution of the conflict of law and the conflict of jurisdiction in the exercise of criminal sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-22-0.u32900	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item. The final proposal for a law to put an end to the Law on the Taking over of the Law on the resolution of the conflict of law and the conflict of jurisdiction in the enforcement of criminal sanctions, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 324. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I'm voting on this bill. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was adopted unanimously with 90 votes in favour. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we voted on all these proposals that we had on the agenda, except for two laws that have no conditions for voting. So, as we have announced, next week there will be no session of the Parliament. We start on June 3rd at 9.30 a.m., so Wednesday 3rd of June. We continue this session and the first item of the agenda is the proposal for a law on probation, which is European law, P.Z.E. No. 332 and then we'll see how it goes. I wish you a pleasant weekend and wish you success in your future activities.
