ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44504	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament at the 38th session held on 27 November unanimously set out the proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Croatian War Veterans Committee. First, the duties of member of the Committee for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament, Josip Salapic, are resolved. A member of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament is elected Ivan Škaričić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44505	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of this proposal please raise your hand. Thank you. Do you mind? Restraint? There isn't. Thank you. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44506	The Committee for Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament held at the 38th session held on 27 November 2009 unanimously set out the proposal for a decision on the resolution of members and the appointment of a member of the Committee on Conflict of Interest. First, the duties of a member of the Committee to decide on a conflict of interest under the order of legislators of Silvano Hrelja shall be resolved. Secondly, for a member of the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest in the ranks of MPs, he is named Susana Bilić Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44507	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's for the board's proposal please raise your hand. Thank you. Do we mind? Restraint? Thank you. Unanimity with 110 votes. Thank you. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44508	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament at the 38th session held on 27 November 2009 unanimously set out the proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament is appointed as a member of the public, scientific and professional staff professor of science Vlado Belay University Professor from Osijek.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44509	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I propose a committee vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. Unanimity with 110 votes. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44510	At the 38th session held on 27 November, the Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee for Labour and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament is appointed as a member from the ranks of representatives of the Croatian Employers Association Admir Ribičić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44511	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I propose a selection and appointment committee to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. It's unanimous with 111 votes. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44512	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament at the 39th session held on 3 December 2009 unanimously set out the proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Tourism Committee. First, a member of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament, Silvano Hrelja, is dismissed. Secondly, Ivan Škaričić is elected member of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44513	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. Unanimity with 110 votes. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44514	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 39th session held on 3 December 2009 most of the votes were set out by the proposal for a decision appointing a member of the Memorial Council of the Jasenovac area. As a member of the Council of the Memorial area "Jasenovac" is named Ivanka Roksandić representative in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44515	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. The proposal was accepted by 109 votes for and 1 abstention. Thank you. We continue to work on other points. I suggest, if we agree, that we discuss today - Final proposal of the Law on Electronic Media, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 403 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This bill will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Information, Information and Media, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Gender Equality. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the IDS Representatives' Club, the Committee for Gender Equality and Representatives, Vice-President Željka Antunovic. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Ms. Nina Obulen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44517	Your Honor, Mr. President. Honorable Madam Representatives and Gentlemen Representatives. The final proposal for the Law on Electronic Media was sent to the legislative procedure in accordance with the national programme of the Republic of Croatia for accession to the European Union in 2009, with a deadline for adoption in the fourth quarter. This law, although the EU law, is adopted in two readings, with a working group composed of representatives of different stakeholders and associations and experts in the field of media and a broad public debate. It is specific to the law to be adopted in order to comply with the new Audiovisual Media Services Directive, at the same time as the harmonisation of legislation is implemented in other Member States of the European Union. The special newspaper in the law is that for the first time, it is arranged alongside audiovisual media services and television broadcasts, etc. linear audiovisual media services and audiovisual media services on request. It is introduced next to a general television or radio programme channel and a specialized television or radio programme channel that will allow the call for concessions and for such programmes, which has not been the case so far. All available platforms for distribution of audio and audiovisual media services are arranged, and according to European practice regarding ground, satellite, cable and Internet. It also regulates the authorisation procedure for audio and audio-visual media service providers on request as well as satellite, internet and cable transmission of audio-visual and radio programmes. This law lays down programmes whose publication is of interest to the Republic of Croatia, including programmes for children and young people, persons with disabilities and special needs, the achievement of equality between men and women, and the promotion of media literacy. In particular, self-regulatory and co-regulation institutes are arranged as basic instruments for the implementation of successful media policies. For the first time, it is also prescribed that competitions or different forms of award participation of viewers or listeners must be conducted fairly and with unequivocally rules on these content and the publicly promised reward, thus preventing irregularities that have been observed so far. In particular, the law regulates the placement of a product that is exceptionally permitted in cinematographic works, films and series made for audio-visual media services in sports and entertainment programs, but with the exception of children's programs in which the product is not allowed. It is also prohibited to place tobacco products or cigarettes in all programmes, as well as special medical products and medical services available on prescription. In addition, the software base of the general television or radio channel, which must include, along with the elements so far, a scheme specifying the type and quantitative proportion of audio-visual or radio programmes, and the intended scope of its own and the proportion of Croatian audio and audio-visual works, European works, and the time of publication. It is important to point out that from now on, the programme base will have to be public and published on the website of the Council for Electronic Media during the entire period of concession. The law also regulates the right to brief information. Provisions relating to non-profit audio-visual and radio programmes are also specified, opening up the possibility of introducing non-profit TV and radio as public television or radio in Croatia, in accordance with European practice. With regard to the protection of pluralism and the diversity of electronic media, the public of ownership is ensured, and the provisions on concentration limits other than to publishers are extended to media service providers that transmit their audio and audio-visual software via satellites, Internet and cable. In line with previous experience in the work of the Fund to promote pluralism and diversity of electronic media, the provisions on the allocation of funds are complemented so that the funds are intended not only for the programme of publishers at local and regional level but also for the programmes of not-profit broadcasters of non-profit television and radio. The law extends the powers of an independent regulatory body of the Council for Electronic Media in a way that, in addition to the exercise of control over the implementation of the provisions of this law, imposes also warnings for non-compliance with the law, and makes indictments in accordance with the infringement provisions, and also makes recommendations related to the implementation of the law, promotes self-regulation and co-regulation, promotes media literacy, organises public consultations and expert meetings, and conducts research in the field of electronic media. Finally, I would like to emphasise that we expect that the adoption of this law will create assumptions for the further development of electronic media in Croatia, as well as for significantly improving the monitoring of compliance with the legal provisions, both due to the more detailed specific role of the Council for Electronic Media, and the introduction of self-regulatory and co-regulation instruments that will ensure the participation of all stakeholders in the adoption of co-regulatory and self-regulatory acts, and in monitoring their implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44518	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Representative Carmela Caparin, on behalf of the Committee on Gender Equality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44519	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At its 28th session on 2 December 2009, the Committee on Gender Equality discussed the final proposal for a law on electronic media submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 12 November 2009. The Committee on Gender Equality discussed that proposal as an interested working body. The proposer's representative gave an introductory explanation of the final draft law, and pointed out that the text of the final draft law was set out in the working group as a public debate was carried out, and the text was also sent to the European Commission in order to comply with the legislation of the European Union. She stated that some of the objections to the bill were accepted, and she pointed out in particular that Article 30 also accepted the proposal of the Committee on Gender Equality. The Chair of the Committee expressed regret that it was not among the proposals accepted and that it was also one concerning the composition of the Council for Electronic Media, and reiterated the need for this law, as well as for all those who adopt the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality, in particular, to comply with its Article 12. The debate followed, during which the Ombudsman for Gender Equality supported the view on the need to introduce a balanced representation of both sexes in the bodies of state and public authorities, while the Ombudsman for children drew attention to the need to reduce advertising of alcoholic beverages in electronic media, and that children’s emissions are not interrupted by advertising. One member of the committee pointed out the need for certain terminology in the text of the final draft law. The applicant's representative then gave additional arguments regarding the comments and questions raised during the debate. The session was concluded by the proposal that the Committee on Gender Equality should refer the amendment to the Final Proposal for the Law on Electronic Media in such a way as to introduce a new item in Article 68(6), which reads: "In the selection of members of the Council for Electronic Media, account will be taken of the balanced representation of both sexes in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality." The Committee unanimously adopted the amendment, and after the vote, the Committee on Gender Equality decided unanimously to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Electronic Media, together with the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44520	Thank you. Do the other committees want it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate and I'm going to a club debate first. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative of the Sunana Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44521	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. For a long time, the media has been a coordinator of social events, they are a systematic part of our world, and they have no doubt had a great social impact. The new Law on Electronic Media is significantly broader in the field of electronic media compared to our current law. As we have heard, it is in line with the new Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of December 2007 on audiovisual media services, the '98 European Parliament and Council Directive. on the legal protection of services based on conditional access and services provided by conditional access and the Directive on insurance and comparative advertising. What is regulated by the new Law on Electronic Media is governed by the rights, obligations and responsibilities of legal and natural persons who carry out the activity of providing audio and audiovisual media services and electronic publications via electronic communications networks and the interest of the Republic of Croatia in the field of electronic media. The new law also regulates television broadcasting as a linear audiovisual media service, which enables simultaneous viewing of programs based on programme schedules, and audiovisual media service on request, as a non-linear audiovisual media service, which allows viewing the program at the moment we choose as a user on our own request, based on a catalogue of programs selected by the media service provider. Linear and non-linear services, together with audiovisual commercial communication, constitute the content of the so-called ". audiovisual media services within the meaning of the Audiovisual Media Services Directive. Such commercial communication represents images with or without sound, which are designed to directly or indirectly promote goods, services or image of a natural or legal person engaged in economic activity. Such images shall be monitored or included in the programme in exchange for monitoring, for forgiveness for payment or similar compensation or for the purpose of self-promising. The formats of audiovisual commercial communications include, among other things, television advertising, sponsorship, telemarketing and product placement. The law also regulates electronic publications as editorially designed websites and portals containing electronic versions of the press, or media information in such a way that they are available to the general public regardless of their scope. The media service provider may be natural and legal persons registered in a court or other prescribed register in the Republic of Croatia, and if, under general conditions, it has its head office and office in the Republic of Croatia. In addition, other cases where a media service provider is considered to be within the competence of the Republic of Croatia, given certain international features of its activities, are also identified. The new Law on Electronic Media guarantees freedom of expression and full software freedom to electronic media, which is extremely important. The media service provider shall, in accordance with this law, design the software basis of the media and shall naturally bear responsibility for the publication of the programme. The new law also ensures freedom of transmission and reception of audio and audiovisual media services, from Member States of the European Union and other Member States, or the European Convention on Transboundary Television of the Council of Europe, and in certain cases the freedom to publish such services may be limited only in accordance with international contracts and this law. Common rules are also prescribed for all audio and audiovisual media services. These are the protection of minors, bans on racial, sexual, religious or national hatred, i.e. hate speech, the obligation to make available gradually to persons with hearing or visual impairment, the ban on audiovisual commercial communications for tobacco products and medicinal products, then treatment procedures available only on prescription, while for alcoholic beverages special conditions relating to the protection of minors are prescribed. Media service providers will be obliged to develop behaviour with regard to children's programmes, which contain or are accompanied by inappropriate audiovisual commercial communication regarding food and beverages containing nutrients and ingredients with a nutritional or physiological effect, and in particular those such as fat,... Acids, salt, sodium and sugars, whose excessive use in general diet is not recommended. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The conditions for sponsored audiovisual media services, as well as the conditions for placement of the product, are also set. It is also regulated to operate a media service, i.e. audio and audiovisual media services on request, so the activity of providing audio and audiovisual media services on request can be performed by a natural or legal person who, as a media service provider, has the permission of the Electronic Media Council to perform this activity. Media service providers shall, on request, have, of course, obligations to protect minors from services that can seriously harm the physical, mental or moral development of minors, in a way that ensures that under normal circumstances minors will not hear or see such audiovisual media services on request. Promotion, where it is feasible and through appropriate means, production and access by European authorities, and promotion of the sea is progressively growing, and the Council for Electronic Media is making this commitment closer and edits. The programme commitments achieved through the programme basis of a general and specialized programme channel, which must contain a type of audiovisual or radio programme, i.e. their classification in individual groups, relate naturally to the media services of television or radio, then the foreseeable quantitative ratio between individual content groups, the maximum volume of advertising content, the scope of their own and the proportion of Croatian audio and audiovisual works, the ratio of European works and the time of publication. For broadcasters, the new law also provides for the obligation to protect minors, the duration of television advertising spots and television spots within each hour, which must not exceed 12 minutes. The law does not provide for a daily restriction on this kind of promotion. Telecommunication exits need to last for at least 15 minutes without interruptions, TV publishers need to book time for European works, a higher percentage of their transmission time. Of course that doesn't apply to local stations. Television publishers should book at least 10% of their transmission time, i.e. at least 10% of their programming budget for European works made by producers, independent of broadcasters. And that also doesn't apply to local TV stations. Of course, there is also the right to brief information, the right of the public to monitor events relevant to the entire society, to connect audiovisual and radio programmes into networks. When we talk about protected services, which are, for example, payment, or coded television, television and radio services, as well as other audiovisual media services, as well as information society services provided with compensation and on the basis of conditional access or the provision of conditional access to the above-mentioned services as services per se. The information society shall consider any information society service normally provided with a distance fee and by electronic means at the individual request of the recipient of the service. It shall be prohibited to manufacture, manufacture, import, distribution, sale, lease, lease or hold unauthorized funds allowing access to the protected service for commercial purposes. In order to ensure the protection and pluralism and diversity of electronic media, the public of ownership, media service providers guaranteeing transparency, cases of concentration restriction, a single publisher may perform only a media service or only a media service of the radio, and the exception is, of course, if it is approved by the council if the activity is not carried out in the same area. An operator performing an audio or radio transmission activity cannot be a broadcaster of television and radio and a media service provider as set out in Article 79 of this Act and it is a satellite, cable or Internet transmission. The Fund for the Promotion of pluralism and diversity of media is concerned with the protection of pluralism, and the Council for Electronic Media is concerned about this. Media service providers shall be subject to competition protection regulations and to all individual support and support programmes provided for in this Act shall be subject to State aid rules. The work of the Regulatory Authority, the Electronic Media Agency and the Council for Electronic Media has also been established, with the Council for Electronic Media having seven members, one is the President of the Council, their term of office is five years. The paper is that the President of the Council is elected by the Croatian Parliament and the Deputy President of the Council on a proposal from the President of the Council. Full-time work is also required. They have been extended their powers, they give concessions to broadcasters of television and radio, and permission to carry out activities for media service providers at the request and media service providers of satellite, cable and internet television or radio. Electronic publications are also covered by this Act, in which the provisions on the so-called Law apply accordingly. They speak hate, because a natural and legal person must submit an application for registration in the Register of electronic publications provided by the Council before the first publication of an electronic publication. As regards the prohibition and termination of the exercise of activity, a natural and legal person shall not perform audio-visual or radio programmes unless it fulfils the conditions laid down in this Act. The Council may also prohibit the provision of audio and audio-visual media services and initiate proceedings before the competent authority for the temporary removal of work, products and materials used to carry out the activity. As regards criminal provisions or penalties at amounts and infringements, they are specified to provide for the imposition of a safeguard measure for the prohibition of the exercise of activity, the confiscation of the case and the property benefit of the infringement and the penalties shall be imposed up to a million kuna. Since the Law has passed a public debate, given that there is good feedback, since all relevant experts have been involved in its production, it is well prepared to thank the Ministry of Culture as well. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this proposal and we believe that the new law will also allow the media what one of their roles is to promote democratic life in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44522	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Honorable Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44523	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the representatives of the motionary. I will begin here on behalf of the SDSS Club with the view that this law, as it is said mysteriously in general, should also be supported because its contents are broadly good, and because as the predecessor said just before, it was discussed and discussed and could be said that there was a good solution. Yet here I will say a few things that represent some kind of remark from a different view of some of the contents of this law, on the one hand, because we need to talk about the specific interests of minority members, in this matter of media or in media treatment or treatment of minority issues, and on the other hand something about media from the point of view of such an ordinary viewer, if I may say so. So what I'm going to say here, in particular or as a suggestion, is about that. The first thing I'm going to say is the status of publishers for the institutions of national minorities. The bill provides the status of publishers to educational institutions, students' associations, etc., and has one formulation which is also for other associations. In this conversation, something was said that, under the terms of associations, it is not illogical for minority associations, but since minority institutions, including minority associations, are in some way disabled, disabled human beings, disabled because of some other circumstances, it was very important for us, and it seems necessary, is not illogical and is not against the criteria and rules on which this Law is based, that the law explicitly incorporates the concept of formulations, that minority institutions, in addition to these allegations, are given to be listed as those who can obtain the status of publishers. We at the Club are pleased that the promoter had an understanding of such a request, and that we have submitted a request, this amendment, which the Proposer intends, or at least so we are told to accept, and in this respect, as it is a dispute, we should also count on it to be resolved in this way. The second thing I mention here that deserves or has an interest in giving it special attention is this issue of the functioning and roles and the realization of the role of the Pluralism Fund. As for the problems of minority members, so minority issues, as regards interests and objectives that are directly linked or are those that belong to members or to the minority corps here, we have a specific situation which I will say here in the following way. We understand that the Encouragement Fund or to promote pluralism has a relatively well-developed concept and goal which and how it should be done, but very often it turns into the next practice. The Fund will allocate stable money or more significant money, which, according to the fund criteria, will withdraw media institutions, but those programmes to promote pluralism when it comes to minority issues and minority interest will work on, to be even mildly, completely patterned, so that it can be done without sensitivity to minority problems, without content and software that affirms tolerance, which speaks in a fair and fair and affirmative and positive way about minority problems. The most important thing is that, to put it this way, it breaks the time prescribed to get the money we've been running for. And then there's actually that spreading pluralism turns very often into actually working and spreading so-called. false pluralism. It seems to us, although minorities are neither self-determined nor merely qualified to talk about minority issues, it seems to us that these minority institutions and organisations should in some way not be preferred, but have a special sensitivity for minority institutions dealing with these issues and then help to build these minority institutions and organisations, to be able to work on it, to run for these funds and to somehow engage equally in what is the basic goal here, which is to spread pluralism both for the benefit of these or those groups and for the benefit of social and society as a whole. We have also talked here about an amendment and we are glad that the promoter and accepted it in a way that, I will not now talk about the content because it is written there, you will see it or you have seen it, but it is actually about making it a simpler way or saying so that in a more secure way enables minority institutions to run and get support from fund funds. The third thing I'm saying here, and it's not directly related to minority issues, it's about the evaluation of programs, television programs first of all. This applies to this area of advertising and to the use of commercials, it seemed to us, we told the promoter, it seemed to us that this advertising space was enabled to measure that in some way too much cutting the program and we got some kind of aggression advertising. To us, this law here tells us that a fifth of the program or a fifth of the show can be used for advertising. It seemed to us that we could bring it down to one sixth simply to suppress what I called advertising aggression because, of course, media houses are in the interest of spreading that space of advertising. We are told that, on the one hand, we understand that there is a view of the directive, a European directive, and that it is in accordance with European directives, and on the other hand we are told that good media houses must have a place to earn money. And we can understand that, although I don't think it's necessary for us to be their lawyers, they're going to fight for it themselves. One more thing about advertising space. In children's shows you also have quite aggressive advertising inappropriately of that age. You have the kind of advertising that actually announcing some next children's show directly suggests advertising for a product or for some consumption after which the child will come to the parent, if everyone has it and you have to buy it for me. It seems like we shouldn't have to open that space, but I know it's hard to do, and in this universal commercialization, what I don't really like is that you can't control it this way as I'm talking about it. And finally there's one thing that also tangs us, tangs a man as a man, but also as a member of a minority. This is a common Internet transmission and promotion of hate speech hidden under anonymity. Of course, you can't contain that to the extent that it would be necessary and just, but it seems to us that it would be necessary to achieve it and that the law would determine that it should be installed so-called. the centrifugal removal of these contents within a possible and reasonable period of time. And here we have an explanation that in some ways the market will solve the problem in itself. What not only the market can do to those involved in the lawsuits. It is a solution but in a very close and very slow way. But we will see what the future will bring. I'll add all of this up the next way. If those amendments in those key things that interest us are accepted, we will ultimately, regardless of these tastes or attitudes from like, I do not like, which I have brought here to support.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44524	Thank you. It's up to the IDS club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44525	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government's honors, distinguished gentlemen of the MPs, friends at the gallery. I think that every law that is in force today is simply necessary. But I also claim that it is not the law's problem, but the problem when it comes to Croatia is this current practice that surrounds us. And the existing law, I dare say, was solid, but the practice in the Republic of Croatia when it comes to the application of the Law on Electronic Media was at least bad. She was born and I'd say we have individuals who abuse or abuse freedom, independence and so on. We see that there is no or actually no control over the media, and then what we have is happening. To be precise, I would even stand up for serious changes on Croatian radio-television. Why? I get the impression that sometimes it's regime television. I'm not going to say that we're in a position not to change things, but I dare say this kind of regime television is our mother to commercial television. There's no objectivity there on those other televisions, it's all money. And that's Croatia today. It's all just becoming money. Today we see that there are elections. Can anyone come to commercial television without money? He can't. The HRT can, and that's the point. The capital directs commercial televisions, and those as exhibits of that capital, choose even at this time according to the wallet and candidates for this or that and determine the future for all of us. Even national television sometimes sells the soul I'd say money, but it remains national television. And at least at this time he's following the rules to everyone equally. Commercial televisions as well as foreign banks are always in the interest of the owner. And when we translate that into language, let's say some choices you see that the media, that capital often in foreign ownership, is simply chosen by people who will determine the future of this country or our children. Without money says this people have no music, no money has no music or how much money is there. But can it be commercial TV? Only those who have the money can do it. And I'm afraid that if we don't make those rules clear through legal norms, in a legal sense, those words can enslave us because many of them are in the service of capital. There's no difference between one and the other, the media, the capital, unless it's clearly national television. In a year we'll all be breaking our heads, but let's let it go now. Maybe some things will work out on the street. As for the specific provisions of this law itself, I would go or go from cable television. I dare say that at this point we have a situation to say these cable TVs are destroying, harassing over a harachus, which is these ZAMP fees. That should be lifted. I get people who pay or have to pay 800, 900 thousand kuna, let's say ZAMP for use I don't know what. They get disputes in one court, they lose in trade courts, and they think there's just someone in cahoots with judges, and they're actually failing. I think of two that the concentration of foreign owners should be reconsidered, but what if we sold 92% of the banks, I guess we could sell 92% of the media. It's sad, but it's true. It is clear that I am not against relevant capital, but money and information is certainly what the future of the Republic of Croatia determines at this time. Article 3 of this Act on page 5 literally states that freedom of expression, full of software freedom of electronic media, is guaranteed. No provision of this law can be interpreted as giving the right to censorship or to restrict rights and freedom of speech and expression of thought. But if we have such provisions in this law, and we need to keep them as little water in the palm of our hand, then we have the right to talk about the conduct of Croatian radio-television. But what if they don't like someone's address, then you can expect to get sued for mental pain at the amount of 110 thousand kuna. It's like some of them have souls there. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "The share of the provision of audiovisual media services as well as the service of electronic publications under this law and under special laws is provided by a media service provider in a written court or other register of the Republic of Croatia, and if, under general conditions, it has its head office and office in the Republic of Croatia." Clearly there can be strangers. That's all right. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "For the provider of audiovisual media services, it is assumed that the founder is in the Republic of Croatia if he has his seat here." True, Croatia enters now we see the European Union in a year, year and a half, two, it doesn't matter who it is from where, but I can say and I won't say my own occupation, but the policy of losing my own institutions that are slowly leading and losing, I dare say that one of our recognizable identities. On the other hand, when I see what happens in some state-owned banks, In the case of Post Office Bank, we're reading today about the loss of a billion kuna, and others are making a profit of 4.8 billion kuna, maybe even better if they were sold. I'm kidding, I'm not serious. This Regulation shall enter "The audio and audiovisual media services that threaten constitutional order and national security are not allowed." What some commercial televisions do, I would say by avoiding someone at this election time, is also undermining the constitutional order. And that's one discrimination couple excellency and that's what I had to say. Article 35: "Political parties and coalitions shall not be sponsors of an audio-visual or radio programme except at the time of election promotion according to a special law." And that provision is just as interesting. I don't think such a provision would be written simply by anyone. I ask myself a question where gentlemen here are independent candidates who produce "independent media houses". Well, they're ten times more powerful today than, say, political parties. Who's behind them? How come I don't know 15 or 20 or how many million kunas? Someone says capital, the other says underground, the third says this one or that one, diaspora and so on. It's a good thing that money of theirs, that haughtiness may be affirmed by the parties, provided they are cleaned inside themselves. Yes, corruption may have been triggered in some way by the parties of the 1990s but I would say the couples are petrified by those who get everything through the parties and today overnight they'll all become independent. You can imagine someone independent of 20 million kunas who can shoot at this campaign and who will be obliged to return the favor after the campaign. We have had the dare to say that this law has entered into force until today or when it comes into force, it is already more impossible, let's say by 15.12. to allow a fair match for the last 10 days of this presidential campaign. But I know it's not going to happen, even though I know that most of the people in this house would definitely want it, absolutely. In this home, yes. But in some media, certainly not. I know that those who have proposed government laws for this situation are not to blame. It's too bad we didn't take care of it in Parliament before. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "there is considered to be an illicit concentration etc. The media." That's very important, that should be regulated. Article 63, this fund should return certain means to promote pluralism in other media houses through those means of television subscription. I suggest that in the future it be at least 1/5 of the funds collected through a television subscription and then that through these Circular rights 200 million kuna per year through such a single distribution and the rest come into the situation so that they are neither privileged nor discriminated when it comes to money itself. Finally, I certainly welcome this law, the practice that I condemn in Croatia, practice is too often harmful for us, it's devastating, it's wrong and the laws are almost perfect for us. It's especially the case when it comes to sorting out this media space. The more on the other hand, the more we bring our legislation into line with European legislation. I get the impression that we're just getting more and more dependent on capital, and somehow we're getting more and more insensitive towards each other. I agree, as the HDZ colleague said, that the media must be a social correction, they should be as well as this Assembly, the Croatian public, etc. They see and discover a series of affairs themselves. In Croatia, however, these affairs are so common and large that they simply cannot remain hidden but when the media comes into a situation and, for example, it is not a state, local self-government, something public, but the interest of their advertisers, means their financiers, the privates can then be often on the wrong side and fight for the untouchableness of their financier. Clearly, there is no one in this home who does not respect the independence of the media. It's clear that we're all going to protect that independence, and we're all going to protect that independence, but I'm also thinking that I'm going to keep telling the truth as much as it will cost me at this time. The editorial freedom, the media freedom, the rights of speech, the step forward, freedom of expression I think we should guard and we'll all keep as little water on the palm of our hands but simply the media must be fair at this point. Pluralism, Mr. Gajica spoke of minority representation in the media. You have to respect it. The media did us a lot of evil in '90, '91, '92. They went ahead of politics I dare say hand in hand and then the media wasn't free of politics, today they're free of politics. The question is how far the media is free from capital today. I wish there was media freedom on the electronic media in the '90s, that there was one greater competition. Maybe a lot of things would be different. Now when we turn around we see the role of the media, which meant 90, 91, 92, there were also functions of normal, raising national awareness in defense of aggression, but then blockages, especially on electronic media, were also one conversion and everything else. Honor once "Feralu", "National", "New List", "Glas of Istria" etc. And in 2000, the media destroyed an autocratic power, authoritative authority, and today let the press be their own, and that's what I want to tell them. The more they become their own, the more free the media in this country will be. All in all, this law is a correct law and we think that it will in some way change the practice that exists today in the Republic of Croatia. It is a pity that the law is late and that it did not take effect before this presidential election.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44526	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44527	Dear Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a legal text that we could call very solid. If you'll excuse me, maybe even a little nerdy. In fact, it seems to me that this is one of the few legal texts to which the preparation has been approached is extremely serious and where it can be noted that the promoter really had an open desire to listen to everyone who was interested in this topic and that he was less able to include relevant remarks between the first and second readings in this text except those who arrived almost at the last minute and these were certain remarks by independent producers who sought a different approach to determining the percentage of the domestic programme or type of production in the so-called “. ” Get on with it. However, we need to know that our market, the Croatian market for independent production, is not yet strong enough to possibly satisfy large percentages, but it seems to me that it would be unusually important, and that is the position of the CNS, that the promoter will be willing to make an additional concession if this situation changes. This is a law that comes from several European guidelines, primarily a directive that has ordered all member states, practically by the end of this year and by December 19th, as well as I remember, to bring about the fluctuations of the law in a way that is in line with the new directive, but it is also a fact that Croatia is one of the few who will respect that term. It is obvious that some member states of the European Union have taken these deadlines that go along with the directive in a somewhat secular way, and it is not surprising to know that this law regulates very important areas which can also define the forms of national identity, the preservation of language, the preservation of national culture, the protection of local audiovisual producers, publishers and, above all, the regulation of the market that exists in this area. Small countries such as the Republic of Croatia have a particularly fragile interest in this because large players, and let's not forget that such companies have already arrived on the Croatian market and established a whole range of electronic media owned by foreign capital, that they are in a better situation, because they can deal with any local or national programme producer in the Republic of Croatia. Some of the electronic media in the Republic of Croatia are part of a total system that works in several European countries. This applies to television stations and is much easier for them to provide a program that is not necessarily high-quality, but is generally commercial. The Ministry of Culture as the holder of this work in this regard had good communication with the Committee on Information, Information and Media, although it did not accept all the suggestions of the Committee and during preparation during the first reading, and in the meantime when the final draft of the law arrived. However, it is good to have a review of all the objections, proposals, initiatives that have arrived at the applicant and where we see exactly what is and why it has been accepted or rejected. Part of these remarks, of course, we remain relevant, and they did not appear in this text. But looking at the total it seems to us, and in this sense, the HNS will support the proposal for a law on electronic media, that this legal text is comprehensive and quality and that certainly for the better, and in any case, with European legislation, it regulates the issue of electronic media in the Republic of Croatia, especially those which have not been covered by the earlier legal text, but also by a whole series of issues which the current Law on Electronic Media has not even recognised, let alone defined. In this sense, we would also like to accept these initiatives of the SDSS club, because they lead to a higher level of sensitivity of the state, as required by the affirmation of a minority audiovisual programme, because we think that everything made up of national minorities within their institutions and organisations is extremely valuable contribution to the formation of a common Croatian national identity because, let's not forget, and part of Croatian national identity is certainly a coincidence with the identities of national minorities living in the Republic of Croatia. We have nothing to be ashamed of, nothing to be afraid of. Moreover, I think that in this sense we have a lot of reasons to be benevolent, to expand the space of affirmation of national minorities and to hope, of course, that these provisions that define the possibility of developing non-profit media will actually affect their development, and not that there will be just a framework which, unfortunately, lack of financial resources will not be able to meet. I remind the state that it is also an obligation to recognise and encourage the development of non-profit media in this sense, because it is one of the ways in which the media space, in particular electronic media space, audiovisual media space, is placed by information that may not have at first sight, and in its perhaps the commercial value which unfortunately becomes dominant and I would say, the ruling criteria on the whole media market. The Croatian People's Party will support the Final Proposal for the Electronic Media Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44528	Thank you. It is the turn of the HSS club, on behalf of the club, the distinguished representative Boris Klemenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44529	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. As we all know, the media is an integral and inevitable part of today's life. They also have a major impact on our commitment, opinions, attitudes, entertainment, information, and the like. Due to the possibility of transmission of visual and sound information, television still has primate in electronic media. In the world of media experts, there is a saying that what has not been published on television has hardly happened. The work of electronic media in the territory of the Republic of Croatia is regulated by the provisions of the Law on Electronic Media, the Law on Media and the Law on Confirmation of the European Convention on Transboundary Television. In the area of the Republic of Croatia, Croatian Radio Television is active as public television, 24 TV concessionaries, and 155 radio concessionaries. Since Croatia is practically a step towards joining the European Union, the adoption of a new Law on Electronic Media is necessary in order to comply with the new 2007 directive on audio-visual media services, which regulates audio-visual commercial communications, product placement, audio-visual programme, editorial responsibility, sponsorship and so on. The existing law does not fully comply with the above-mentioned Directive and does not provide answers to the questions raised by rapid technological progress and digitisation in the audio-visual area. It has also been observed that the law so far does not often respect, so it is easy to notice hidden advertising, publishing inappropriate content, disproportionate ratio of domestic and external production content, and non-compliance with the law for the purchase of independent external production programmes. Therefore, the said club of the Croatian Peasant Party welcomes the adoption of a new law that regulates these issues and narrows the scope of different interpretations and interpretations. We at the HSS Club positively assess a legal provision that does not give the right to censorship or restrict freedom of speech and expression of thought. However, we represent freedom of speech and promote every freedom of thought and expression, but the primary interest should always be the public's interest, not the sole interest of private capital. Article 30(3) prohibits the advertising of political parties, coalitions and independent representatives of representative bodies except during the election promotion. With this provision, the electronic media are not in an equal position with written media, so we at the HSS Club are also proposing that the applicant consider a proposal which also speaks of the fact that, under the electoral promotion, they do not regard political parties, coalitions and independent representatives of representative bodies, for example, as regards national traditional holidays or holidays. In Article 37, it is defined as information, cultural and artistic, musical, sports and other emissions, as well as other original audio-visual or radio programmes whose manufacturer is a TV or radio operator or produced by his order and for his account. We believe that the legal provision should be prescribed in a way that protects more than that in this proposal is Croatian language and identity on commercial televisions with a national concession. Since for the time being, the owners of two commercial televisions with national concessions in Croatia are multinational companies in which television stations in almost all of Europe operate, there is a legitimate concern that they will be declared in the quota of their own production and programmes already produced for the account of some television companies outside the Republic of Croatia, which would formally satisfy the legal criteria, but would release them from the obligation to produce a Croatian programme with Croatian audio-visual works producers. It is therefore necessary to define its own programme in a way that it must simultaneously meet the criteria of Croatian audio-visual production in order to avoid unfavourable interpretations and abuses. It is important to note that this law is in line with the 2007 Directive amending the Directive on television without borders and renaming it in the Audio-visual Media Services Directive. In the new European Commission Directive, there were no amendments to Articles 4 and 5 which oblige signatories to publish most of the European audio visual works in television programmes and to give at least 10% of their programme to independent producers. In this way it is possible to miss the quota for the purpose of protecting the domestic programme, which opens up the legal possibility for publishers to completely stop producing the Croatian programme or order it from Croatian independent producers. This is likely to damage domestic producers, while favouring foreign customers and in a more unfavourable position, to Croatian language and national identity on televisions with national concessions, and they have a major impact on viewers and whose programmes are monitored daily by more than 50% of the population. We now have the opportunity to protect the position of Croatian language in the field of electronic media through legal norms, as well as not to be lawyers or lobbyists of independent producers of the programme. The intensity of the Directive on television without the borders of the European Union is to encourage publishers to increase their own production. For years, the publishers did not comply with the legal obligations of 20% of the day-to-day programme from their own production and therefore we believe that the quota was necessary to raise. The Directive, in terms of implementation, must seek to ensure that the formulations are implemented and Article 44 is concerned. It is not binding and national legislation of the Member States of the European Union has left the freedom of flexible formulation. As taught by the current practice of commercial television with a national concession, we believe that it is necessary to define this article more precisely. This would also directly protect Croatia's independent audio-visual production and numerous jobs that are at risk at the moment, and in the future would be even more if such a formulation remained. It is inevitable that every national law of the Member States of the European Union further protects its linguistic and cultural specificities and there are almost no restrictions. Croatia is a beautiful country of rich traditions and cultural specialities, beautiful, pleasant and melodies language, and let us not allow our children to enjoy it under the influence of foreign elements. The adoption of this law will bring audio and visual, audio-visual media services into line with European Union directives. Media service providers will also be equipped with the possibility of providing new services such as audio-visual media services on request and the use of all available distribution platforms based on concession or approval. After all this has been said, we at the HSS Club believe that the final proposal for a law on electronic media is good, applicable in practice and well-compliant with needs, challenges and technological opportunities. It gives a general plan of business to the media industry and concrete answers to how they are applied in reality. Subject law enables greater flexibility in determining the broadcasting of own production programmes and allows the envisaged norms to further liberalise the market. We believe that it provides adequate answers to the questions of the current moment and is adapted to future needs. So we at the HSS Club will support this bill in a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44530	Thank you. It's SDP's turn, distinguished representative Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44531	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. First, one commendation to the Ministry of Culture. The law was done as prescribed by the Law on the right to access information, so that the draft law is published on the Ministry's website at the time of the law. Other ministries should also be invited to comply with the provisions of the Law on the right to access information, as other ministries do not. They are violating the law adopted in this House, which was even proposed at the time of Racan's coalition government, but which has not been amended in this regard. Respect for this law allows a broad public debate, and allows legal proposals to come quality to the Parliament. Probably because of the respect of that provision we have here one, I dare say, a high-quality bill. It is a pity that some of the thoughts and remarks of the Croatian Association of Independent Television Producers, which have come out a little late for the truth. Either they started late, or they didn't respond in time, but that shouldn't prevent the promoter, and so should we, ourselves, from respecting their remarks. And it can be done through amendments. I call upon the government to do so. Because it would be a shame not to enter into a quality text those legitimate remarks. I have now listened carefully to what the representative of the HSS club said, who has literally read the entire text since 18 November 2009, which was directed by the Croatian Association of Independent Television Producers. Like the attitude of the HSS club. Since HSS is in the coalition, I'm confused. If this is the proposal and the attitude of the HSS club, I'm now interested in whether the HSS will vote for the amendments, and we're going to direct them to independent producers, because if they won't vote for those amendments, then all this stuff that the HSS Club said here is actually false. Then they declare it, and in reality they don't support these remarks. What are these important remarks? There aren't many, but they're important. Article 37 of the Law defines what is its own production. And that defines it in a way to say that it's what, the works that the producer, the TV or radio reporter manufactures alone or someone else manufactures by his order and by his account. This is the situation in Croatia. This is Croatian law and refers to Croatian opportunities. You may not need to take care of it in another country, but in Croatia you should. We have a situation that both commercial publishers of the multinational house and they produce their own program, RTL can produce in Germany, and say it's our program. It is. It's their program, in German. So they will formally fulfill the letter of the law, and we will watch a program that is not in Croatian. They will produce it, declare it their own production. Independent television producers suggest that another provision be introduced in this article, which is that it is considered by its own production as the programme produced in Croatian, or ordered by Croatian producers. And to me, that remark of theirs seems quite logical. That commercial televisions with national concessions are Croatian property, that they do not come from outside, that they are not multinational companies, then this provision should not, but the situation in Croatia is not so. We also need this provision if we want to protect the Croatian language on these TVs and Croatian production. And if we don't, then we won't accept the amendment. Neither the government nor the HSS, which is so strongly advocated in the name of the club that this provision is introduced. Time has increased, so-called. The impact term, accept what is usually called, and how is it known. He was from 18 to 22 hours, now he's from 16 to 22 hours. Why is this strike date important? Well, because it's said that in that prime time, there must be at least 50% of its own program. What happened now that that range increased in two hours? Now if they produce something in Croatian, it will show from 16 to 18 hours when the ratings are lower. And the real admission from 18 to 22 hours will be used for foreign production. Therefore, if we are already extending this reception, prime time in 2 hours, then we commit them to this programme that will show at least be in Croatian or made in Croatia. Look out, we gotta keep our jobs. 500 people lose their jobs daily in Croatia. And we're passing laws that don't even protect jobs in this media industry. It's said to be bound by the directive. Well, it's not like that. It is not because this Directive of the European Commission on audiovisual media services is not in conflict with the existing law. However, Chapter 10 of the accession negotiations between Croatia and the European Union, which regulates the issue, has been closed. There was no need to intervene here. And especially not to intervene at the expense of domestic production. Especially not to intervene at the expense of the Croatian language. Therefore, I expect the government to accept the amendments, and I expect the HSS to vote for them, if the HSS votes for them may also be able to pass, of course, other parties in the Assembly who here declare Croatian interests, and when it comes to real Croatian interests, employees' interests, Croatian language interests then vote in favour of the Government's proposal no matter what it is. Article 35 prohibits political parties and coalitions from being sponsors of an audio-visual or radio programme except at the time of election promotion and according to a special law, the Law on Elections, for the Assembly, for the President, for local elections, etc. Is that respected? Well, no. In July, Croatian national television showed a special show from the HDZ Convention, which has not happened so far. I don't know if she took the HDZ money for whether HDZ was a sponsor of HRT, but sponsoring not only money, sponsoring someone with various services, that's corruption. Who's in charge of protecting this law? The Council for Electronic Media. And the Council of Electronic Media when it discussed the case said that everything was fine and that the law was not broken, you have a clear provision. So the question arises whether this law is well-set by that regulatory body, that we must trust it. If he loses that public trust, he doesn't even have to exist, which then, who needs it. But if the Council can say that a special show of an hour from a party convention is not a sponsored show then I have no idea what a sponsored programme is. Which covers HRT, says there's an interest in the public, who determines the public's interest, the Hlorka there. Because she says there is a public interest in the HDZ convention and there is no public interest in the convention, for example, in HSLS or HSS. Who must, that prescribed punishment for disobeying this provision is up to a million kunas, if I'm not mistaken 100 grand to a million. The Council has yet another important function that can take away the concession on one day's right to broadcast, on one day, on seven days, can be permanently taken away, if someone does not comply with this Act, the Council has only once used this right. But watch out for broadcasting radio and television programs break many laws, above all children's rights. You know if someone violates the right of children or if they violate this provision on the advertising of political parties, the concession must be taken away for at least seven days as an example to others. What the Council does, it file criminal charges, misdemeanors, well, it has the right, fines are determined by criminal courts. When does that come to court? In five years, no one remembers what's causing the procedure. Therefore, there should be encouraged and encouraged by the Council to impose penalties for confiscation of concessions, for one hour, at one hour. Well, he won't be in the program for an hour or a radio or something, so we'll see if he breaks the laws. If, after the broadcast of a special broadcast from the HDZ Convention, a 24-hour concession had been lifted for HRT, the director of the IT programme would have resigned by then, as it would have been clear to the public what it was about. We will not move further in that direction that we have public content, quality content, that we do not have this kind of political corruption on television, unless the Council takes over to the full extent of its power given to it by the law. That's what we all have to insist on, you know, now maybe it's in the interest of HDZ to show up on such a show, the day after tomorrow it won't be, so will you react? That's where we have to stop to protect the law, that's why we've been elected here. Not now to see if it's my party interest to show it or not, this hour, and tomorrow doesn't have to be. These things must not happen, therefore, the SDP will vote in favour of this Law. He is well-prepared, we will give amendments and we will test the real interest of the government to help the Croatian media industry and protect jobs and protect the Croatian language but also the sincerity of the HDZ coalition partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44532	Thank you. The vote is a vote, and the votes are not running any tests. At 11,35, I would like to inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207. The Rules of Procedure have expired time for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. We still have two clubs. It is now up to the distinguished representative Boro Grubisic on behalf of the HDSSB Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44533	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministry or Government, fellow MPs and fellow MPs. Here is what my predecessors said and indeed this is a well-prepared proposal that has respected all the comments, the proposals proposed by the representatives in the debate before and delivered to the Ministry of Culture, i.e. the competent authorities in connection with the proposal of the Law on Electronic Media. Which is why electronic media is so important, clearly in the world but also in the Republic of Croatia. So, by word, by image, by thought, by deed, but also by failure they form, they form public opinion. So all this stuff I said exactly like that. Today, there have been a lot of words and a lot of debates in clubs regarding these and failures, but also what is happening on our public television, and in a conversation with, let me say this, I have received a few information that I will present here today to the public about what here and in the articles of this law is clearly defined as to how this law has an E mark, therefore European, to say the character, in terms of the approximation of the EU, but also the preservation of our Croatian identity that it is, I will not say that it will be threatened by accession and entry, but clearly with the indication that it needs to be preserved. Especially in electronic media. And then when we look at both commercial and public television, then we see the full use of aliens on our televisions. It is said that one public and 24 commercial, 155 radio stations and then we wonder if the lecturers are doing their job or whether there are too few or what is actually happening? Furthermore, here in these articles is also a form by which a promotional programme is broadcast. And its length and duration and impact terms etc. You see, in our sports shows on TV, it's perfectly normal to advertise beer. Beer as a food item, and then people wonder if it's a food item that can be completely neatly advertised on Croatian television how it's a man who eats beer because it's a diet, a food, it's punished by the police if he's eaten so much beer that he's over 0.5 pomegranates. Wine as a tradition of Croatia, as something I should say and culturally related to, especially our southern and northern regions, has no right to advertise, no right to promotion. It's not a food product and it can't be eaten like a beer. The use of dialects here is precisely prescribed in Article 34, I think, is it so Madam Secretary of State that you help me, but good. The use of dialects is precisely prescribed here. However, are you and I convinced that this use of dialects is exaggerated? Not only in what it's prescribed, but also in information shows. You want me to tell you, I'm not advertising some kind of show on TV right now that says Sunday at 2:00 a.m. someone's giving a report from Split on a dialect that belongs there. Croatian literary language is at risk from all sides. Of commercial television, especially because of foreign programs, foreign shows, and on public television, and in this way I said. Even in children's shows, you have an interruption of the children's program that is already being practiced by children that in every show, movie or anything will have a break when they're older so they don't get nervous, that they're already being trained and then they're advertising chocolates, candy, etc. Why interrupt a child's thought in a children's film, in his imagination of the film, in his thinking with constant interruptions of promiscuous character? Are we thinking about it? Furthermore, the child’s lawyer, the child’s lawyer, spoke of it. Public television, subscription, I wonder if this is P.Z.E. Is the subscription paid in Europe, in the countries of Europe? Is there a subscription to be paid? I know that in the vast majority of countries there is no subscription to television. We have abolished the 3rd HRT programme, or it has been sold to commercial television. Did we cut the subscription because of that? So the public television shut down the 3rd program, or sold it, put it in a concession, whatever you want, it doesn't matter, and it didn't cut the subscription. Shouldn't we think this way too much if a third of the program went a third of the subscription is less? No, there's a program+ that we have to pay extra. So you have to buy a card so you can watch it. This is an additional imposition, additional household funds to watch the programme+ of those who want it, and the 3rd program is sold to commercial television. And something else when it comes to this local, cable, commercial television, then it's visible, and I'd just say more, I'd be talking about Slavonia where I come from, that some local TV homes of cable actually became al-jazeeras of political parties that are there in power. There is simply one media block towards some, and some are in one to say media mercy. And then you have events that aren't even about the party, they're not about politics, events happen, but if someone is present who doesn't match that al-jazeera then that event, that event won't be shown, there won't be a report on that event and the events on that local TV. And neatly, through the fund, or two funds, the funds are allocated from the subscription that we all pay for these TVs as well. Someone here said the percentage should be 20%. The percentage that all public television subscribers give in the Republic of Croatia is determined by the fund on the basis of criteria on the basis of that money. I've read these criteria, and it's really my opinion that they're not transparent enough, that they're not concrete enough and that there can be volunteerism and subjectivity in the assessment of comas and how much money there is from that fund. So that's Article 63. Fund to promote pluralism and diversity, in the further text of the fund. And then this fund has another fund that is allocated under the Law on Croatian Television, based on the criteria set out in Article 64 here, which say: "The allocation criteria are: the meaning of an audiovisual or radio programme to achieve the objectives set out in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article." Furthermore, "quality and content activity of the offered audiovisual and radio programme, interest in general, i.e. local, regional and cultural development. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. If you don't think that these criteria are a little bit generalized and that they give opportunity, I won't say about abuse, but for the distribution of funds, I won't say fair, but that there can be someone a little bit more, someone a little less based, and after the calculation you can't see why this is so big and so much. To go back to the public television that I personally watch, and then I notice that on this public television that in many, to say in prime time in information shows you have people who wear those shows, they have a speed burster, a voice flaw. C's don't know half the people who talk there. Well, then the sports reporter says "not a good centre shot." Well, I guess the adjective knows how to get away. I've never heard of it. And things like that I could write every day and deliver to the council or whatever, to the lecturers. So what are they doing there? So how do they teach Croatian citizens, Croatian children, Croatian? Not good, so please not a good centre shot. I don't care what reporters they are and who they are. What are the criteria for receiving people into such important institutions as public television. Receipt criteria, that's a special story. I don't want to talk. In any case, I must say, like my other predecessors, that this law is carefully prepared, that it is in good faith and intent to bring into order this topic of which he writes. But here's what I couldn't stand not to bring things out anyway, so if I had any help, fine. And the HDDSB club, given that the law is well prepared, as my predecessors have said, to vote for this final bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44534	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44535	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, your colleague isn't exactly being punished by the police for drinking beer. That's incorrect. The police are punishing you for driving a car under the influence of alcohol, so something else. And you can drink all the beer you want, just don't sit that steering wheel in that condition. And rightly so, beer is called food, and some people call it liquid bread. But we're not going to talk about it right now. It's a bit of a broader subject. And as for some local Al Jazeera, I don't know if you were thinking about your little TV set that's in the mercy of the HDSSB or some other local Al Jazeera. But I'm guessing you were thinking about feeling TV, so you were self-critical.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44536	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. Let's move on, let's go with the clubs. In the club of national minorities, the esteemed representative Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44537	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, the Honorable Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. According to all predecessors, this is a relatively good law and, with little correction to the amendments, it could be almost very good, or excellent. And I am therefore very sorry that I must express on behalf of the club dissatisfaction and say that the club of national minorities will not be able to support this law without a clear definition of the financing of emissions in minority and regional languages. For many of the longer in Parliament, this will be nothing new, as ten years of national minority representatives are trying to address the issue of information in the languages of national minorities. I will remind you that Croatia is a signator of the Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, where information is defined. That Croatia is a signator of the Charter of Regional Languages, where exactly what it is necessary to do in order for minorities to have information in their own language. At the time of the adoption of the Law on HRT, the first one seemed to me as early as 2001, we made sure that information was defined in the languages of the national minorities. We have equally supported and fought for that right from the subscription fund to form this Fund to promote pluralism and diversity, because it has been said that this fund will be able to finance emissions more strongly in minority language, that is, this diversity. Unfortunately, I must say that I should mention before that one law. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of Minorities Article 18 also specifically regulated the right to information in minority languages. Article 18 The constitutional law has established that radio and television stations at national and regional level have the task of promoting understanding for members of national minorities, producing and broadcasting emissions intended to inform members of national minorities, creating and broadcasting programmes and thus participating in the maintenance, development and demonstration of cultural, religious and other self-loathing normally with an emphasis on language above all. It is provided that legal persons carrying out public communications activities will allow associations of members of national minorities and institutions of national minorities to participate in the creation of programmes intended for national minorities. The Framework Convention, which I have already mentioned here, states of signatories among which, as I have said, the Republic of Croatia has made a commitment to ensure, in the framework of legal regulation, the use of sound, radio and television signals, as far as possible, that people who are members of national minorities can obtain the ability to produce and use their own means of information. Moreover, according to the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages, Article 11 states signatories have an obligation for users of regional or minority languages in the territory in which these languages are spoken to ensure the establishment or origin of at least one radio station, one TV channel in a regional or minority language, or provide adequate facilities for radio and TV stations to broadcast programmes in a regional or minority language. I must say that Serbia has it, Croatia is not even close. There are a lot of difficulties in achieving this minority right. The problem of the insufficient presence of minority languages in electronic media and the achievement of the obligations of the Republic of Croatia taken over by the European Charter on Regional or Minority Languages is also reflected in the Council of Europe's report and there are recommendations from the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. In the reports of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council for National Minorities in the exercise of the Constitutional Law, it also points to problems in the exercise of the rights of national minorities set out in Article 18. Constitutional law. The current Electronic Media Act contained a provision under which programmes for national minorities are of interest to the Republic of Croatia as well as a provision establishing that the Funds for the promotion of pluralism and diversity of electronic media will encourage the production and publication of software content of electronic media at local and regional level and are also important for national minorities. To remind you, the last competition conducted by the Council for Electronic Media where 30 million kuna radio stations have been deployed that have emissions in the minority language have received 300 thousand. Of these 300 thousand are normally funded and their other emissions mean not only minority emissions. Therefore, we can talk about the shifts in resources aimed at financing emissions in the minority language. Many will recall that I also asked for a report from this speaker several times and asked for a National Minority Council to deliver from the council exactly what these are ultimately emissions in minority languages funded and with which amounts. We never got the right answer, although in a conversation with radio stations, I haven't contacted television, it's been said that they are precisely running minority programs. Therefore, it should be known how much funds are directed in that direction. Since the legal solutions have not produced the expected results, it may also be because the law does not ensure that minorities participate in the work of the Electronic Media Council. We have prepared three amendments, an amendment to Articles 64, 68 and 69 at the Club of National Minorities, and certainly at the SDSS Club, where we are just looking for repairs or in some way not to say guarantee because it cannot be given that it will finally start and finance and produce emissions in minority languages. We're not gonna support this law. We know that our votes will probably not affect the adoption of this law which is in line with European laws and means that it does not even respect the Charter or the European Union's warnings, but we will certainly be against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44538	Thank you. That's where we ended the club debate. We're moving on to an individual debate. He's the first respected representative of Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44539	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, representatives of the government, fellow MPs. The law on electronic media that we are discussing here today in my opinion should first and foremost bring the existing situation into line with the development of modern technologies, respecting the principles of freedom of the media and promoting public interest and ensure the preconditions for possible abuse of electronic media to the minimum possible extent. But our reality regarding electronic media, especially more and more developed electronic publications, is contrary to the Law on Electronic Media. From day to day, we witness an increasing number of examples of the abuse of electronic audiences and the increasing free violation of the provisions of the current law. I could spend hours here picking up all kinds of stupidities, untrues, lies that electronic publications transmit from other media or watches that are then opened through the Forum or space on these pages for comments with the most positive initiatives to hear the voice of the people open space to individuals to write everything and everything. They insult as many people as they want without responding to the content as well as the way they express themselves to anyone. I'm going to bow down to a sentence that Mr. Skegro has just said recently these days, registering with a full name and last name, and I quote, he said, "Hide behind the coded name of the user and spit everything around him doesn't require much intelligence or courage. So I'm going to add that those who log under code names and insult in all ways are frustrated, complicated, often blinded by hate, immense amounts of stupidity, and are therefore afraid to introduce themselves by their own name because they are aware that they place lies and insults. The portals are obviously not for public discussion, an argumentable confrontation of opinions, attitudes, because they don't actually have them. I've said this all because I've often been exposed to the avalanche of some well-hidden concubines who don't have the courage to reveal their name and last name, but these cowards are brave enough to write all sorts of things, so every time I find out about myself a lot of news that I didn't even know. I do not believe that effective control of electronic publications has been designed so far, especially the truthfulness and credibility of the content placed on the portals by individual media, and they are offensive and criminal character. I believe that the Law on Electronic Media and the Council on Electronic Media should pay more attention to the resolution of this particular segment and provide for and closer regulation of disputed situations when the individual articles of the Electronic Media Act are deliberately violated, taking into account the element of extremely rapid technological development that develops the field of electronic publications. Finally, I expect the Council for Electronic Media to act in the future under the new Law on Electronic Media and to adopt rules that will control electronic publications, portals and content that are often contrary to this Article 12th new law and encourage hatred and discrimination on a variety of grounds, and most often in a social political and social situation. I also expect the punishment of those who break and do not comply with the law and with the appropriate penalties that are within this law, so I would say, even satisfactorily, for the violation of Article 12 prescribed from 100 thousand kuna to up to one million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44540	Thank you very much, colleague Kunst. We have two reported replicas. First of all, dear colleague Jurjevic. Here you go, colleague Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44541	Thank you. When we talk about the Internet, so as a communication medium, we must first say that the Internet has greatly demoralised the possibility of communication between people. I'm a blogger myself, and on blogs, he picks up what he's picking up. Today... So people write under some thread, under some imaginary name, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's the logic of that kind of communication. I would ask here if Croatia is the only country that has come to punish bloggers on prison sentences because commentators appear, so someone with a comment on my post, some of my text on the blog, and I am as responsible as the one whose blog is. Thus, whoever is serving this blog, there are administrators who should take care of it. It seems to me that you can talk, so you can look on the other side, how the bloggers and those who communicate through blogs are threatened, thanks to some anonymous commentators who appear there, and let's say they write about someone. Then he sues me for someone unknown to me, and I didn't erase it, etc. But in essence, I think the Internet, and the community itself, a blogger, has contributed more to democracy than it has taken away.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44542	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44543	Thank you very much. My colleague Jurjevic, I have nothing against democratisation and that people write what they want, but just what they want and what they think, just let them play. Let's know who's behind it. Democracy is not covered by someone's code name, spit, lie, spread lies, slanders that are often motivated and political reasons, and eventually some initiatives that are low to offend someone, etc. It's not democratisation. Democracy is to say everything you want, tell everyone what you think, but you have the guts, you know what they'd say, and even with you, have the balls to introduce yourself, so say I'm the one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44544	Thank you very much. And second application of the replica, distinguished colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44545	You say, colleague Kunst, these are cowards who hide behind fake names and then write comments on blogs and posts. You know, they're not cowards. You make sure that they have to think a little bit about whether they're going to end up in jail, and we're being prosecuted because a man dared to write for this government that the gang is a thief, so the police came to his house. And Vukovar almost went to jail because someone else on his blog wrote something that the government didn't like. Probably the same gang thief. You know, when someone's doing a public job, then they have to agree to publicly commenting on it. Now whether he will comment on it under a full name and last name or comment on it under some false name, under no circumstances should we get used to it, if we are to make sure that people who dare write openly what they think about this government or about you, colleague Kunst. Or about you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44546	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44547	You know, fellow Stazic, the comments themselves speak best of each of us. That's quite clear. Yeah, they're cowards. They are, so I'd even call them lower than cowards, but let's not use harder words, we're still here in the Parliament. Well, you know, I don't mind someone writing something that's true, but when they write lies, when they write all kinds of slanders that have nothing to do with the truth, so I don't know if they're exactly the kind of person you support, no matter how public or not they are. I think that, in any case, we should make sure that everyone's integrity is protected, he's a public person, any person, if someone's spreading lies and lies about him, and I wouldn't support him like that. And that's why I think it should be more control of these very portals and what's written under some coded names. I'm against anyone to be convicted, punishing anyone who's capable of telling the truth in the eyes of anyone. I never ran away from it, and I never wrote anonymous or hid behind something to insult someone, but I always said what I had said to everyone in my eyes. Normally, it wasn't good for me sometimes, but it's, I think it's the least human thing that can be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44548	Thank you very much. There's still a debate going on. It is next, dear colleague Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44549	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Well, here I will immediately point out to you at the beginning of my debate one fact that I hope the rest of you will agree, which is that the Republic of Croatia has so far had a good legislative framework in the field of electronic media, and thus compliance with the acquis of the European Union. In fact, from the laws on electronic media so far, I am talking about the one from 2003 that we have coordinated during 2007 and 2008 with the European Parliament and Council directives. Today, we have a final proposal for a law on electronic media that bears the label P.Z. and which, in accordance with the national programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union in 2009, is foreseen for adoption in the fourth quarter of the adoption. I will not fail to stress that this too confirms that the Croatian Government and the RES are working hard to meet the commitments and conditions of harmonisation of its legislation with the legal gains of the European Union to join the full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. To highlight what the Proposer also said and what other colleagues said in their debate, preparations for the draft law took place in the middle of last year. There was a big expert group working on it. A wide public debate has been held. Its adoption was not a matter of haste, but of two readings. I will remind you of what was first done in July so that we could all have the opportunity to make comments and possibly improve the draft law. And then unfortunately, we have to realize that some of them are too late to make their remarks. And why is this law significant? Well, it's important from what we've already heard in the Republic of Croatia that 155 publishers of the radio programme, 24 publishers of the television program, and we said an unspecified number of publishers of electronic publications, although in the Report of the Council on Electronic Media for 2007 we had information that as many as 230 publishers were registered in an eyewitness. I hope that in the next report of the Electronic Media Council or the electronic media agency, we will also receive this information. This Final Proposal for a Law on Electronic Media shall implement compliance with the new Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. When we tell the new one, we mean the one we've been thinking about since 11 December 2007 about audio-visual media services. The Directive on the legal protection of services based on conditional access and services provided by conditional access and the Directive on insurance and comparative advertising. The obligations of the member states of the European Union, including Croatia as candidates, are to comply with the Audio-visual Media Services Directive within two years. It is commendable that the Republic of Croatia adopts its Law on Electronic Media at the same time as the other members of the European Union, of which we have heard only four countries so far, France, Luxembourg, Belgium and Slovakia have passed their new laws. The new Electronic Media Act guarantees freedom of expression and full software freedom of electronic media. The media service provider shall, in accordance with this law, independently design the software basis of the media and bear responsibility for the publication of the programme. It is important to point out that the law provides the public with a programme basis that must be published on the website of the Council for Electronic Media, enabling the general public and all interested to monitor and control the implementation of the obligations of media service providers established by the programme basis and this law. And while I mention the Council for Electronic Media, along with the Director, I welcome the intended extension of the powers of this independent regulatory body, which, in addition to the implementation of the Law on Electronic Media and I will mention this law, lays down the rights, obligations and responsibilities and legal and legal persons who carry out the activities of the production and publication of software content and services through the electronic media giving notices of non-compliance with this law, submits the accused proposals in accordance with the provisions of the law, makes recommendations related to the implementation of the law, promotes self-regulation and co-regulation, promotes public literacy, organises public consultations and expert meetings, and conducts research in the field of electronic media. I also welcome the change in terms of the composition of the members of the Council for Electronic Media appointed by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government. So far, the members of the council have been elected or elected by seven, elected among themselves by the president, and now by this change, it is proposed that the Prime Minister be appointed president and members of the council on a proposal from the government. The Council shall, in its capacity to provide and withdraw concessions, conduct a tender for co-financing of audio-visual and radio programmes from the Funds for the promotion of pluralism and diversity of electronic media. As regards the Fund for the Encouragement of pluralism and diversity of electronic media, while the draft law complements the provisions on the allocation of funds of the fund so that the funds are intended not only for the programme of publishers at local and regional level but also for the programmes of not-profit television and radio publishers. The types of programmes co-financed have also been expanded to cover programmes related to children and young people and to promote their well-being, and to promote cultural diversity and heritage care. In addition to those basic questions, the final proposal for a law provides for fines for infringements in the event of non-compliance with the provisions of the law, and for the first time and safeguard measures for the prohibition of the exercise of activity and the confiscation of unlawfully acquired assets, as well as transitional and final provisions which specifically provide for a transitional period of six months in which media service providers are required to carry out their activities, and the issue of electronic publications shall comply with the conditions and standards laid down by this law. Within these 6 months and the Council for Electronic Media, i.e. the Agency must submit for harmonisation, i.e. giving consent to the Croatian Assembly of the Statutes of the Agency. Otherwise, I will support what my colleague Kunst is, and I think it has been said in other discussions, that the Council for Electronic Media is fully benefiting from the rights of supervision and all those violations, or infringements which may be brought into breach of the provisions of the Law on Electronic Media, that it clearly and consistently insists on implementing and protecting the provisions of the Electronic Media Act in the future. And finally, with the praise of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Resorm Ministry, as well as everyone involved in the drafting of this law, I will support the adoption of the Law on Electronic Media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44550	Thank you very much. Further application for discussion, distinguished colleague Vesna Škulić. She's gone. She's losing her right to debate. Following is the application of a colleague of parliament's representative and vice-president Zeljke Antunovic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44551	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm going to try not to repeat some of the things that have already been said here today, the numerous debates we've heard here in front of the representatives' clubs have touched the topics that I'm going to touch. And that part of this proposed law, the final text of the law relating to its own production and Croatian audiovisual works. I have also written the amendment in this context, but I would like these amendments not to be accepted, but to have the government reconsider these proposals and the amendments, to assess what is the best interest of Croatia and the protection of Croatian media and Croatian electronic media, and what is their task and to make the final decision with the adoption of these amendments to the laws. Namely, I will explain what this is about, I will no longer explain, this part of which has been a lot of talk, which concerns the protection of my own production and Croatian audiovisual works. I have no intention, and I have not written any amendments, nor have I answered the debate to be a spokesman or lobbyist of independent producers' associations, because this is not just about independent productions, but also about productions of television, or houses that are carriers, publishers who are carriers of electronic media. This is about own production, and that production that the publishers are ordering from independent media. But it is in any case its own production and Croatian audiovisual production. I came from the debate held on the Media Committee, and the explanations that came from the Government's representative, from the State Secretary, realized that there is no material obstacle to these amendments. In other words, the government, in the context of these proposals, is also in agreement with independent producers. The problem right now lies in something else. And when we decide, in fact, we will not only decide on amendments, but we will make, or I suggest that the government do so, make one important political decision. There's been a lot of talk about the procedure of passing this law, and everyone's commended it. I, too, join those who have praised this procedure, but this procedure includes, among other things, the opinion of the European Commission on the proposed law. The procedure has been completed and if the amendments to this law are to be made through amendments, they should go back to seeking the consent of the European Commission. That's not a problem either. This agreement would be given by the European Commission because these proposed amendments are in line with the new European Directive. But the problem is that, in this case, this final bill would have been passed a little later than 19.12. which is the deadline for harmonising all the legislation of all Member States with the new European Directive. I will warn, or I will say it loudly here that in that case Croatia would not be the only country that has not made that commitment. On the contrary, the vast majority of Member States and those of the old members of the European Union will not comply with their legislation with the new Directive by that deadline. Since it is an extremely important content, if it were really a matter of protection, I would say our national, our national interests, about protecting the promotion of Croatian language through audiovisual works, about protecting an economic branch called production, television or radio production, whether it is independent or within the framework of publishers who are also beneficiaries of concessions. It could list a whole series of important things that we will put aside just because we respect the deadline for the European Union, which neither the Member States will respect. I also appreciate that it is important for Croatia to show consistency, to show in all ways that we want to join the European Union and that we want to bring our legislation in line with the good practice of the European Union. But I don't think we should risk our interests at all. It seems to me, in this case, to a considerable extent and vital state interests, to honor a bureaucratic deadline. I will repeat, it is an important and not very easy political decision, but a political decision on which we can show and send a different message than it has been sent so far. We can show Croatian citizens that we want to join the European Union, because we have made a good law that is in line with the European Union, but that is why we do not want to give up our vital interests either. That's why I wrote these amendments, and I will insist on them if this bill doesn't come to a change in the government's position, as a proponent, which has not changed so far. But there's still room for that attitude to change, and I think that would be good for all of us. As far as we are concerned in the SDP, we have thought well and concluded that between these two interests, this second protection of certain vital interests and publishers but also of the state as a whole should be put ahead of the interest of respecting the set deadline of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44552	Thank you very much, colleague Antunović. Next is the debate of distinguished counterpart Boris Spremo. My colleague, I'd like you to have a seat.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44553	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State and Associate. With all the remarks that we had in our first reading and some doubts about the mere application of some of the provisions of the law, which we then pointed out are adopted and some are clarified and have a new meaning, in the second reading we welcome the proposals' efforts to offer the Parliament a quality final text of this extremely complex law. With the emphasis, I still have a lot to say about it, and I'm going to say something about it now. We believe that there has been a kind of imbalance in understanding the translation of the new directive and the individual terms of the old Law on Electronic Media. Now in the second reading, we also have an actor who breaks the entire perception of the law, which is the provider of media services. This leaves a unclear difference between media service providers and editorial responsibilities especially if we compare the definition of both terms then we see that the media service provider is the one who has editorial responsibility for selecting audio and audio-visual content, audio and audio-visual media services while editorial responsibility is to apply effective control over the selection of the programme and their organisation in the chronological schedule of the programme. Therefore, the editor is in charge of the programme and the media service provider for the content, which is the basic ambiguity of some of the previous items of this complex law. The programme is defined as a separate element within the schedule whose form and content is comparable to the format and content of television broadcasting but the content is not defined and necessarily implies that the first media service provider has some broader powers than the editors and yet by definition identical, this identification of editors and media service providers could mean the same responsibility. What individual owners i.e. Media service providers can encourage them to become editors while the independence of editors should be protected. Of course, we are almost certain that the proposaler's intention is not a discourse that would produce such an event development but rather vice versa. So in the current text, it seems that the media service provider is nevertheless the bearer of the general principle and that he carries out his activities while the editor does his own selection of the programme. In addition to the new media service provider, we also have the media service providers referred to in Article 79, which is also covered by this concentration restriction provision and some other provisions. But who is the media service provider referred to in Article 79 of that same licence holder that we warned in the previous indication as the owner of a privileged position in relation to the concession holder. Still for the concessionaire it is necessary to satisfy the complex procedure of approval, but this time let's stay on one condition. The concession agreement must contain the programme basis and other conditions contained in the offer, find the programme basis. Although the media service provider referred to in Article 79 of the last indent states that it is also subject to the provisions of the law of Articles 23 to 46, it does not need to be pointed out in the approval procedure what the content of that transfer will be and in order to obtain or deny the authorisation of the regulator. And to end something about non-profit activity, as defined in Article 46. This way of defining non-profit activity will continue to be unstimulative. At the moment when we are busy with all kinds of commercialization, when this kind of problem becomes a dominant European problem, our experiences speak in defeat language. These or four non-profit radio stations, "Student", "Catholic", and "Radio Cretac" say so. The reasons for this situation are primarily because the legislator and other responsible social organisations failed to define the functionality of non-profit activity. So this isn't just about this bill. This kind of disquieting society for something that in modern countries is classified “Egydu communy media” so we did not encourage the Media of a community here. How much this Law will contribute in its application, it seems to me that more depends on the willingness of all participants to participate in the future relations of the media industry and their interactions with those they communicate with and to develop such relations as will enable it. In principle, I support the law, but I believe it will take a lot to monitor its application and correct it in accordance with what it will show in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44554	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State Nina Ogulen, final.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44555	Thank you, Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs. I thank you for your discussion and for your comments on this bill. We, I must stress, all proposals including all amendments will be carefully considered. In any case, what was the key principle that we were running is to go towards ensuring better quality monitoring of law enforcement. Our market is still developing in Croatia, we know that there are commercial electronic media for only a few years. We live in a period of technological convergence, new platforms have appeared, they have so far been out of the law, this law has tried to capture them so that we are aware that it is crucial that an independent regulator but all others who have an interest and who follow the media participate in monitoring the law, and therefore we have several times emphasized Article 10 and the principles of self-regulation and co-regulation. I would like to comment very briefly on a few of the comments and proposals that have been made regarding advertising. The standards have been significantly raised, especially in relation to minors. As regards the terms and definitions used, they are mainly directly transposed from the Directive because it was also an obligation. We're aware that we're all going to have to get used to those new terms. As regards hate speech and general provisions and principles, this is also highlighted in the debate, so obligations have been extended to all those who have not only used licences before but will therefore, or concessions, but will receive licences under the new law, respectively. Provisions have been significantly strengthened and powers have been added to the Council for Electronic Media. The issue here is particularly highlighted by several speakers on the treatment of political parties and coalitions and the equalisation of their position in electronic and printed media. I must stress that within the Working Group this issue has been debated for a long time and that the conclusion that the Government then proposed to the Parliament in its formulation is important to ensure the public's interest and to minimise any room for manipulation or for pressures and, in that sense, a formulation has been proposed as proposed in the final draft of the law. As for the fund and co-financing of the programme here, there have been several comments that relate between others and national minorities. We, in terms of the criteria themselves, have also highlighted the specific support of national minorities, but I must also mention Article 10 and the principle of self-regulation and co-regulation. Therefore, the rule that the Council adopts the criteria will no longer be adopted without respect for these two principles, so without consulting those who are interested in it. And we are convinced that this will open up the possibility that all those questions that may have not been adequately in the fund are treated in a different way to give different treatment. Finally, I have to refer to what was a large number of MPs and the initiative to organise in a different way the treatment of their own works, Croatian works, their own production and the question of the share of their own production in the so-called so-called production. receive a time or prime time. And I would agree with those who said that the remarks made by the government were actually a match. We have an absolute goal of this law to ensure that cultural and media diversity is respected and that basic principles as defined by this law are respected, among other things, to encourage cultural content. But there was a lot of talk here, and there was a lot of talk in the debate about quotas. Quotas are one instrument, but they are not the only instrument to achieve that goal. The way we have decided to propose how this issue will be edited has started in a different direction, which is Article 23, in which we have prescribed that now, on a programme basis, both a general and a specialized channel, so then the program, when applying for a concession, must be determined according to the share of its own works and the share of Croatian works, and must specify the time of publication. This law also stipulates that such a programme basis will be public and, in addition to the fact that this programme basis now becomes an integral part of the concession Treaty. So instead of prescribing quotas that, in the event of equalising their own production and Croatian production, would not be possible because Croatian works are part of European works, we went in another direction which we believe will have much better results and will be much, much easier to follow. It is true that the directive in Articles 4 and 5 has not changed, but it is also true that this Assembly has abolished this article to insisting on the European Commission by its earlier amendments and additions to the quotas that existed exclusively for Croatian works. The provisions requiring continuous monitoring and reporting of the effects of these provisions relating to the increase in the share have been strengthened. And finally, as far as the question of prime time and time is concerned, that's another quota that's been dealt with a lot. Therefore, we will consider the expression proposed in the amendments, but I must stress that there has been a very, very broad debate here too, including a public debate, that it is not an important requirement for commercial television to significantly expand this strike term and reduce the share of its own programme, but also that, based on previous non-compliance with the provisions of those for which it has been assessed and in communication with the Council for Electronic Media, but also with other interested parties, it has been too restrictive and that it has not been possible to respect them for a minimum extension of that time and a minimum reduction in the percentage of the own programme that should be provided in that section. So we will carefully consider all amendments by next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44556	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, 2nd and 4th, so today we put together before 7, now 15 new agenda points, and I think we're going to have to increase at least one more day to say so, so I suggest and I have nothing to suggest so we have to do. On Tuesday, we will continue, so 8, a session of the parliament at 9.30 p.m. and we will have on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday with the goal that if we don't have to, then there will be no session of the 14th and 15th when possible according to the Rules of Procedure and so on. So we want to avoid it if we don't have to do it on Monday and Tuesday. So on Tuesday we continue at 9.30 p.m. and with the agenda point, the final draft of the Structural Support Act and the regulation of the fisheries market, and we'll see how it goes. I'll see you Tuesday at 9.30. Thank you very much. Good morning! Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, we will proceed with the work of the 15th session. First we will vote on the points of the agenda that we have passed, and then we will go to the proposal to launch the confidence of the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure of Bozidar Kalmeti. Please, please establish the quorum. Let's engage and determine the quorum. My colleagues and colleagues, let's get involved and see what's up with the quorum. We will also have three agenda points where 102 MPs are needed to pass the agenda point and vote for it, so please and it is very important that we immediately determine how we stand. Here we've got 88 MPs and MPs involved so far, so we can start working. We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Electronic Media, that was the second reading, P.Z.E. Number 403. The proposal was proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The review of the amendment is divided into benches. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the proposed amendments, Minister of Culture Mr Bozo Biskupic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44558	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44559	Mr Minister, first indication of the 1st Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club in Article 30.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44560	The amendment is not accepted. According to election laws on an independent list, it can only be spoken after the adoption and publication of the relevant election commission, and from the moment the list is announced only election promotion starts and lasts exactly 24 hours before the vote is reflected. So there is no reason to regulate the ban on advertising of independent lists, because when a candidate is elected he becomes an independent representative and from that point on he is so covered by this law. In addition, the fact that the current Law on Electronic Media has not been implemented in practice has not led to the fact that there are problems related to the advertising of independent lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44561	Thank you. IDS club. There's no one here. We will vote on an IDS amendment that the government does not accept. Who's in favour of this amendment? By raising your hands, please. No one. The amendment didn't get the required majority. 2nd Amendment of the MP and Vice-President Željke Antunović to Article 37
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44562	It's unacceptable. The production and promotion of Croatian audio and audiovisual works is ensured through Article 23 of the final bill, which prescribes that the publisher is obliged to program... a general and specialized programme channel to determine the scope of his own and the proportion of Croatian audio and audiovisual works. In this way, they become an integral part of the concession contract to be published in public. Therefore, it becomes a public document. Furthermore, commercial publishers at national level in the Republic of Croatia were established in the Republic of Croatia as domestic legal entities, so that they are not able to circumvent the application of the previous provisions using the programmes produced for the needs of multinational companies abroad.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44563	Thank you. Mrs. Antunovic doesn't have one. Who is for this amendment, Mrs. Antunovic? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 3rd Amendment of the same representative and Vice-President Željke Antunović to Article 38
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44564	The amendment is not accepted because this amendment increases the obligations of the publishers and reduces the period of so-called ‘region’. the impact date, which is not justified in view of the situation in the field of audiovisual media services activities, TV taking into account and the economic potential of publishers in view of the market situation and the experience so far in implementing the proposed provisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44565	There are no ladies. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 4th Amendment of Ms. Representative and Vice-President Željke Antunović to Article 44
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44566	The amendment is not accepted. This amendment is in direct contrast with Article 5. The Audiovisual Media Services Directive, which was transposed in Article 44 of the final proposal, cannot therefore be amended in the proposed way, but must be accepted by that provision. We note that the increase in the share of European parts of independent producers is prescribed by the Council for Electronic Media by its rules and thus ensures that the share of these works is gradually increased.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44567	Thank you. As the lady is gone, who is for this amendment, raise your hand, please? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 5th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDS in Article 48
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44568	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44569	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Six. National Minority Representatives' Club in Article 47 SDS National Minority Representatives Club under Article 64 ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44570	The National Minority Representatives Club is not accepted because it assumes only the participation of the National Minority Council. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has accepted the SDS Representatives' Club proposal, which is extended in this way, as it allows all associations of national minorities and other entities to protect national minorities to participate in the process of establishing added criteria for the allocation of funds to the Fund for the promotion of pluralism and diversity of media, thus providing an appropriate criterion for the allocation of funds to promote national minorities' programmes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44571	On behalf of the National Minority Club, Ms. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44572	Dear Ministers, it is not true that we will be able to resolve this Article 10 if for 8 years what was a legal obligation was not implemented by the Council of Electronic Media, if all those years are not provided for financing and reporting in the languages of national minorities, how can we now be able to achieve something on the basis of the agreement and this association? This was a proposal to give advice as the highest body in the Republic of Croatia when it comes to national minorities suggesting those programmes in the languages of the national minorities to be financed by the council. So far, we have not almost received funding from the Fund for the Development of pluralism. 2.3 emissions per year from these funds cannot be satisfied with the information. In addition, the Council of Europe has warned you and the Charter of Regional and Minority Languages is not being implemented. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44573	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 7th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS also referred to in Article 64.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44574	He accepts it because it's like I said before he's in a broader statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44575	This amendment becomes an integral part of the bill. 8th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of National Minorities in Article 69
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44576	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44577	It becomes an integral part of the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44578	I'd just like to mention that technically, it's going to be done in item no. 2, no. 17. Must change to No. 18.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44579	Okay, so it's acceptable with this correction?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44580	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44581	National Minority Representatives Club, Article 68(2)
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44582	It's not accepted, it's... Council members for Electronic Media were a criterion for closing Chapter 10. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the request of the European Commission, the information society and the media have conducted a public debate in April 2008 and the public debate found that the final draft law proposed a way of selecting members of the council is transparent, democratic and meets the criteria of civil society representation in the regulatory body. And there is no obstacle for a representative of the national minorities to be run on the basis of a public call from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and to be elected as a member of the Council for Electronic Media.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44583	Thank you. Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44584	Ministers, just because it was not accepted and forward in order to possibly propose programmes to the Council of Electronic Media, this was just another way to get 10% of Croatian citizens the right to information in their own language and we just wanted one of the council members to be right out of minority ranks because in this way we would certainly get at least approximately information about what the Republic of Croatia and took the obligation and which minorities to all our laws, and the Law on HRT and the Law on Electronic Media should have. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44585	Who is for this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I Amendment of the Committee on Gender Equality to the Final Proposal for the Law and in conjunction with Article 68(6) thereof.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44586	The amendment is not accepted. We believe that the Law on Gender Equality as an organic law is directly applicable and that this provision does not therefore need to be introduced into the Law on Electronic Media, especially because members of the Council for Electronic Media appoints the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government and members are running on the basis of a public call. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament will surely and must and will take care of the implementation of the Law on Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-04-0.u44587	Mrs. Sobol is gone, who's for this committee proposal? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you, Minister. I am voting on the final proposal of the Electronic Media Act. Please engage and vote and control where the lights shine. The result? The bill was adopted by a majority of votes, 100 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 3 against. Along with the amendments accepted. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors! We're continuing at the 15th session. We move to the first item of the agenda - Final bill on structural support and regulation of the fisheries market, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 451 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. You received the reports at the session. The government has submitted amendments, and they comply with Article 169. The rules of procedure become an integral part of the final draft law. The amendments were also submitted by the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mr. Secretary of State Tonchi Bozanić. Here you go.
