ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36387	Dear MPs and MPs, we begin with today's session of the Croatian Parliament with the 5th point as announced yesterday, which is - Annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2008 Proposer: National Foundation for Civil Society Development The National Foundation submitted this report on the basis of Article 6. Law on the National Foundation for Civil Society Development. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Labour and Social Law. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Cvetana Plavša Matic, head of the foundation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36388	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the House of Representatives and Madam Representatives. The 2008 National Foundation Report is also a report on the 5th year of operation of the National Foundation. This is the year in which, in accordance with the strategic objectives, we have opened five competitions and four calls for expression of interest by encouraging and supporting different forms of civil society organisations. What we are particularly proud of in 2008 which is highlighted in this report is the network of our associate partners, the entire infrastructure that networked existing capacities and directed them to equate regional development of civil society with adequate financial support. When we talk about this regional development, I am talking about this programme of regional development and strengthening the ability of civil society organisations at local and regional level, which represents meeting one of the key strategic objectives of both the National Foundations and one of the objectives of the National Strategy adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which refers to the creation of a stimulating environment for the development of civil society in the Republic of Croatia. A significant twist has also been made with the introduction of a decentralised model of funding for civil society development, which the National Foundation finances short-term civic initiatives through a tender to contribute to the community and implements in partnership with four regional foundations in Osijek, Pula, Split and Zagreb. At the same time, stronger social and financial capital of the local community is being built, which is a key link on the one hand to its sustainable development, and on the other, the integration and activation of citizens and citizens who are increasing the level of their involvement, commitment and solidarity in achieving the development of the community in which they live and work. In times of global financial crisis that is beginning to feel in Croatia, it is important to note that, thanks to the National Foundation's investments in support of civil society organisations, a working relationship for a total of 704 people, i.e. the inclusion of a total of 446 volunteers and volunteers in local community development projects and the democratisation of Croatian society. What is also important is that last year we managed to complete the IMPACT, the European Centre for Intersectoral Cooperation in Zadar, which puts the Republic of Croatia on the map of Europe as another country that actually invests in cross-sectoral cooperation. Because a similar centre exists only in Cambridge and here we have now managed to make such a centre in Zadar and it will actually be a center of excellence for connecting all three sectors that the non-governmental non-profit sector, making the public, making the profit sector. And, of course, our report is detailed in terms of income, expenditure and all of the support that we have granted to civil society organisations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36389	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. And on behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36390	The Honorable Vice President, the manager and fellow MPs. The annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2008 is affirmative, informative and marketing well-prepared work that, with some well-intentioned criticism, needs to be accepted in any case. The National Foundation for Civil Society Development was registered in November 2003 with a founding role of 2 million kuna and a continuous inflow of funds from part of the gambling revenue and the state budget. The National Foundation is granted institutional support from the British Government's Department for International Development and will manage the financial support programme under the European Union's CARDS programme for the development of non-profit social entrepreneurship. In view of the above, other donations by domestic and foreign natural and legal persons and revenues from their own activities, the National Foundation shall be classified as public mixed trusts. Based on the fundamental purpose of promoting and developing civil society in the Republic of Croatia, the Foundation provides professional and financial support to programmes that promote the sustainability of the non-profit sector, cross-sectoral cooperation, civic initiatives, philanthropy, volunteering that promote the democratic institutions of society, as well as other programmes that achieve the fundamental purpose of this foundation. In the last five years since the establishment of the value of the projects achieved through the National Foundation for Civil Society Development programmes is unquestionable. And such initiatives certainly need to be backed up. I would like to point out, for example, one of the projects that is increasingly discussed and which is getting better results, which is therapeutic riding as a bright example of investment in working with people with disabilities. It is also commendable that 704 people through the foundation programme have had a working relationship, as well as 4462 volunteers involved in the project. Speaking of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, I believe that its main interest is to achieve general good and interest. I therefore believe that other actors, in particular the media, should be more involved in promoting programmes of general interest, both at local and national level. For example, I don't remember that too much media space was given the volunteer initiative "The Tooth Chef" which was rewarded by UNESCO, but the media daily is showered by eating, breathing, and blinking individual domons and empty characters of ours, let's call the jet set. Promoting this increasingly as some values, various forms of such behavior that have nothing to do with healthy development. On the other hand, the biggest promotion of activities is the realisation of good programs that promote themselves and as such are best recognised and accepted in public. In addition, some of the beneficiaries of financial support from the National Foundation for Civil Society Development are very much present in public life, such as GONG and B.A.B.E. which could also contribute to the recognition and dissemination of other programmes on which the foundation works. Furthermore, by connecting 4 national foundations in Osijek, Pula, Zagreb and Rijeka through the initiative "Our contribution to the community" life in these communities has been improved. The question is what with other regions in which the foundation should also play its active role by seeking to improve life in other parts of Croatia. A report which, in any case, is commendable to me, may have one criticism because it does not contain sufficient information on the feedback on the funds spent on individual programmes, or on the results of the implementation of the programme. In the future, I think it would be good to make sure that more attention should be paid to feedback from the field in order to get the right picture of what programmes the foundation should be engaged even more than what it is doing now. And in the end, about transparency. Whenever it comes to transparency, especially financial reports, many civil society organisations are the loudest. Without doubting that the trust is using the most transparent means available in the most transparent way, I believe that the spending party should have been more transparent, or much more detailed, than in this report. I would like to remind you that for the past year, we are talking about 155,000 budget kunas and almost 43 million 81 thousand kunas collected by the inflow of funds from a portion of gambling revenue. So these are assets that are very respectable and that should be taken care of in any case. Looking at the moto foundations, "It's important to have support" I would like to send support to you for further work, and take good intentions to appreciate that future results will be even better and the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36391	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Honorary Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36392	Dear Vice President, Madam Manager, colleagues and colleagues. According to this report, but not only to it, we understand the foundation as such a roof company that will discuss the programmes, the award of money support, but also the developments within this sector that we call civil society. This is also because counterpart Kunst said it was important money, but also because of the social interest that we want in some way to install and produce in this civil sector, it is extremely important. Now, I'm gonna split two things here. In this report, the Fund states that it regulates or edits, therefore it does not regulate, regulates in the award of financial support, affects the creation of infrastructure for the work of civil society and monitors what is happening in the sector. If I look at this report through these criteria, then it is well done, I would say even if I liked it because it was made illustratively on, as far as it can be said, in a modern way and therefore we will support this report. There is one flaw that relates to this report, but that may be even more relevant to understanding the role of the foundation that I am about to say here, and it seems to me that perhaps the future reports should also account for it. We understand the Foundation as that institution, given the possibility of affecting events and giving money, which can therefore affect the situation in the sector, and that means that in such reports it should be possible from the position that is from the foundation to see that the assessment of the situation in that sector is being seen, that it is known in which direction the development of the civil sector is going, that it is known which social successes, and what weaknesses in this House and otherwise in society we know where intervention should be, where there are weaknesses because you will not be able to produce them yourself. It's just that I'm gonna get to the bottom of it. In addition to this report that seems to be primarily about the foundation, we should add the part that talks about the situation in the civil sector, so that we know what we are on and that we are helping you and that we are all somehow pointing towards more development and better development and that it is a stronger instrument of civil society. Some segments in the civil sector are highly developed and highly socially influential, and I could say they work well in society. We need to spread that spectrum, and to spread it, we need to support it. Once again, we will support this report, and I would like it to be this supplement that I consider important. Of course, if we agree that it really is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36393	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36394	Honored Mr. Vice President, Madam President of the Civil Foundation for Civil Society Development, honored Mr. from the Ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. The National Foundation for Civil Society Development is a small but agile and extremely well-run foundation. So a social organization from which many could learn in both the private and the social sectors. Namely, the National Foundation, which was established year after year in 2003, extends its activity and extremely transparent reports submitted to the Croatian Parliament, represents its work to the Parliament and the general public. The National Foundation has done a great deal to encourage volunteering, philanthropy, good human relations and has generally encouraged the development of the civil sector in the Republic of Croatia in a way that was simply not possible before the formation of the foundation itself. Unfortunately, the Parliament has, in some way, become a helmet for these activities, although the Voluntary Law has been passed, it has become a bit of a matter of selectivity, in fact, a barrier to the faster development of the sector and volunteering as such could be said. The Civil Society Development Foundation has also made a great deal of work on the development of social capital as a binding material that helps people to put their other capitals, such as financial, physical, human beings, into a function of improving the general good. Unfortunately, the Parliament did not make much on this segment, and I say changes and additions to the Voluntary Law could be considered, and even some, some other laws, in order to intensify activities on promotion and social capital. It should be noted in this context that today in the countries of Western democracy and over 70% of the value of companies rests on non-financial assets, so what we can call in the wider context of social capital. Under the conditions of the crisis in which the Republic of Croatia undoubtedly finds volunteering would simply have to be seen in a new light, and created better, better conditions should be created for the development of volunteering in order to intensify this segment into growth, promotion, creation of a gross social product. And in this segment is an extremely interesting way in which the foundation has also joined in the process of approving its projects, civil society organisations. It also provides for civil society organisations seeking projects and support to provide some kind of projection of the number of volunteer hours they will spend on these projects. Certain indicators have also been provided for in which the effectiveness of these projects can be subsequently evaluated, after their implementation, and it is very little necessary to assess the overall contribution of all these projects financed by the Foundation, growth and gross social product, and ultimately to assess very precisely how much the foundation's activity itself, so these 15 people who act in it contribute and to the exit of the Republic of Croatia from this crisis in which we have found ourselves. The Foundation has also done a great deal to decentralise its work, so projects are now approved by regions, because the fact is that local people, local communities, know their needs and needs best, but also potentials. This report, presented to the Croatian Parliament, is very, very detailed, gives a review of all projects, gives an overview and material resources that the foundation has engaged in their implementation and the fact is that something could be said more about the overall impact of these projects and their actual success, and this is indeed the starting point of an analysis of the state of the civil sector, but I'm just saying the starting point, because basically the trust of the masters that I should say only by that segment which can finance civil society projects on the initiative of organisations that report on these projects. No one can be forced to apply to some kind of project if they don't want to. Furthermore, the foundation has a very well-developed mechanism and judgment of these projects, and it is also common that civil society organisations simply do not receive funds for their projects, as projects are ranked according to performance based on very well-developed criteria. And we can say that there is no untouchable that even some famous civil society associations are more famous to the general public simply did not get support because their projects were not well-ranked, because they did not meet certain criteria. Therefore, the foundation can undoubtedly add to its analysis of the situation in its sector data which should then be widely processed by the government's Civil Society Associations Office, and in a broader context then the advice for the development of civil society in order to get a wider picture of the state of civil society in the Republic of Croatia, and it is important to note that civil society in the Republic of Croatia has a very, very wide range of actions that go beyond what is actually escalating when citizens' society is mostly thought about. Because this initiative, like counterpart Kunst, has also mentioned projects until therapeutic riding, including those socially vulnerable groups in society, to promote the work of some libraries in some areas of enhanced social care, then environmental programs with real pearls from which even many scientists could learn how programs are written and presented. So, I support this idea that the foundation contributes to the analysis of the state of civil society, but certainly it is only one segment of the general picture that should be given to civil society and which should also be discussed at the Croatian Assembly. The National Foundation can be proud and the reputation of the Republic of Croatia and many authorities of the state administration, many institutions of the Republic of Croatia, but the private sector could really learn a lot from the foundation and look up to it. In terms of broader context, it should be said that the SDP club believes that the institutions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia including, of course, the Croatian Parliament should generally do more to encourage volunteering, to evaluate volunteer work and to intensify activities to make more use of, encourage and promote social capital, and to remove from Croatian consciousness the last remnants of the remains that were unfortunately present until recently, that in fact civil society associations are certain to interfere with the normal functioning of Croatian institutions as some prosecutors or something like that. Civil society institutions are salt on the bread of democracy and should certainly be encouraged. The SDP Club will be pleased to support this report on the work of the National Foundation on Civil Society Development, and on some other aspects as to the fact that the Civil Society Development Foundation has been successfully recruited under the ISO 9001 Quality Management Scheme for several years now, I will say in a personal debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36395	Thank you. Now it's the turn of the HNS club, the esteemed representative Goran BR. Here you go. That's what it says.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36396	Mr. Vice President, I'm counting on us to know each other after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36397	Yeah, I read it once when you signed up not the way you wrote it and you objected. So we wouldn't object this time, I read what it says. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36398	It's okay, I hope you'll be whoever consistent and future. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, ma'am. We have a report from the National Foundation for 2008 ahead. One foundation, as counterpart Franic said, can serve the Republic of Croatia's pride. Remember the foundation was founded 6 years ago, but it has been operationally functioning for 5 years, and in these 5 years it has developed into a central place, a reference place which, by example, models if you want and principles, but above all, the procedures and criteria it has established can serve as a definitely one point of view for all those involved in the redistribution of public money. Unfortunately, those who were first to look up to the functionality but also the methods and criteria of the foundation did not do so to this day primarily the ministry. Compared to the ministries, the National Foundation is a spaceship. In fact, the ministries remained less trapped in their bureaucratism, non-transparency, lack of respect for deadlines, and this also has a significant impact on the security of the civil sector in that part of whose activities are covered by the ministries by direct co-financing, but it also creates a certain loan among those involved in the various sub-sectors of civil society and are directly linked to the state and are not so fortunate that they are linked to the national foundation as one special organisation that is on the one hand at the same time bringing public sector interests, on the other hand listening to standards, criteria and needs of the civil sector itself and on the third hand trying to build links to the private sector which, first of all, is much more engaged in philanthropy and in the participation of funding of publicly relevant and useful projects than we do. There's more to the comparison. I can tell you what from my own experience. Namely, what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration is doing, which distributes funds for the so-called friendships. So there are a number of dozens of friendship societies between Croatia and other countries on the one hand and on the other when it distributes funds for Croatians abroad, and what happens there is beyond all criteria. So these are non-transparent procedures, it's a whole series of political and other pressures and agreements, and it's just a primitive level of distribution of money that existed before and in many other ministries. In addition, all these difficulties, observations and the civil sector itself have led to the establishment of a national foundation for the development of civil society as one body that will move away from these patterns, which will move away from political pressures and, above all, professionally on publicly established criteria, procedures and standards, distribute that part of the public money that comes first from gambling on happiness. And that's what the trust in the past five years has done more than it's done. Of course, there have been difficulties with different profiles, there have been misunderstandings, there have been some attempts to refer to some initiatives according to the foundation as the possibility of political agreement. The Foundation of Thank God did not give in to these pressures, they, to be clear, did not come from the state, which is interesting, but sometimes came from the civil sector. However, the foundation did not give in to these situations, building its procedures, criteria and standards even better. Most of the time, she took a comparative study of what others in the foundation are doing far more experienced, more advanced than we are, and I think now she's come to one level where we can say that we have definitely as far as the region is concerned by the best foundation of such a type. Very important are the two details I would have warned of, which is that the foundation took seriously three years ago and then began to implement the idea of decentralisation or regionalization in the process of distribution of funds, because as they would say far from the eyes, away from the heart, or who is closer to the altar hears the mass better. So civil society organisations, especially those operating in smaller areas, especially those operating in rural areas, have, in fact, always remained in place because of their inability to present and prepare programmes in a way that could mate with prominent, large, established traditional organisations that have always had better logistics and more experience. And then no quality could be seen, the social relevance of a specific programme for the local community. The National Foundation jumped in two ways, first of all by opening a special partnership programme in the local community where it managed to disseminate some of the funds and beyond Zagreb, although we must be aware that Zagreb and the Zagreb area normally make up one quarter of Croatia in general and in many activities a third so it is not strange that many things happen in this area and then attract more resources, but on the other hand, the fact is that the positional rent of Zagreb as a big city allows many civil society players to achieve their goals much easier, simpler and faster in the local community than in one Vrgorac, Iloku, Zupanja or in another smaller environment. In this respect, decentralisation was more than welcome to the process, and this building of a network of therefore central and several regional foundations has made it possible for the evaluation of the local type programme, in the evaluation of the type of regional networking, to make regional action much more, much easier, much easier to make an insight into the programmes that occur at local community level than was possible until then through the regular programmes of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development. In this context, I think it is a new quality at which the National Foundation must insist on, above all, helping regional foundations to take up, in full terms, their part of the work, their responsibilities and, if you want, initiatives, because the foundation's work is not only to share funds but also to initiate certain changes in the areas of cross-sectoral cooperation where it is necessary to achieve better results in strengthening social capital. And another thing I would point out here is the opening of an international centre for inter-resorial co-operation. It is a joint project of practical government and trust, i.e. the Government has assigned space to Zadar, and it is the foundation that has equipped it and has also set the programme for it. It is difficult to expect that the capacity of this centre will be 365 days a year absolutely filled with the programs of the centre itself, so the inter-resorship cooperation programmes themselves, especially in the first place. In order for the centre to be popularised in the right way, that information about its capacities, capabilities and services that it can offer to as many people, associations and civic initiatives as possible, I think it is very important that the centre is open from day one and for the purpose of serving different programmes of NGOs themselves, whether it is inter-resorial cooperation or not. So, in that sense, that center would be... , in some ways one operational headquarters of various local activities, particularly on the education plan, especially on the international integration plan, and especially on the networking plan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And interdepartmental cooperation, the inevitable part is more or less all of these processes. In this regard, I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will not continue to spin the pipe, i.e. by redistributing within the means of gambling, and continue to reduce funds to the users so far. In fact, you must know that as the Croatian Parliament, we have contributed to some of our decisions, that is, we have listened to the government, and by establishing some new foundations, we have reduced the total share of the various civil society actors so far, not to mention how the Red Cross system works, what about sports and recreation funds, and finally what about the resources of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development. I hope that this process will not go further by atomising these funds because it seems that every little bit as soon as some initiative occurs that someone remembers that it is then going into a crowded story of gambling funds that unfortunately do not grow so raggedly that they should cover the needs of all those sectors that are so far, which are currently participating in the distribution of these funds. The Croatian National Party Club therefore welcomes the results, not only in 2008 but the overall balance of work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development over the past five years. And here's what I'm using this opportunity to say, I think fellow Gajica has asked the question of how the spending of funds allocated to different projects and programmes. I can say that my personal experience is that the foundation has built one extremely firm, hard if you want a very, very decided system of evolution. Especially in those programmes that are of many years of character, they are practically constantly controlling the way these funds are used. And if the funds allocated in the current year are not realised in the way it was determined by the application itself, the assessment, the assessment bodies and, finally, the contract on the use of the funds already in the following year, the big question is whether the association will at all receive funds to continue its programme. So, a very high level of responsibility, discipline is required, so if you want to, especially with those great and professional. Because in the civil sector because of many people, it's a huge social capital that we need to be aware of, it's much easier to activate and solve collectively, so social problems than the state does. And that country that realizes that the civil sector is a medium through which a social problem can be solved three times cheaper, and if you want three times faster, that state builds a high-quality, constructive dialogue with the civil sector, one that does not generally understand it is in conflict with civil society, resulting in much smaller successes and results on the plan to strengthen social capital and its activation in solving social problems than could actually happen. In that sense, the NHS Club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36399	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate, and I'm sorry, we have one correction by the distinguished representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36400	Well, Mr. Vice President, our colleague, Beus, told us that associations make their programs easier in Zagreb than in small areas, such as Vrgorca, Iloku and other small towns and municipalities. It is simply not true, dear colleague, here we will say as mayor of the town of Pakrac and in short consultations with counterpart Boris and the mayor of Vrgorca association are easier to achieve their programmes in small areas, better and better quality communication with city and local administrations. Here I had two associations this morning before I came here to Zagreb Red Cross and the mountaineering society. And we really have one correct and good cooperation. My town is funded by over 60 associations with relatively modest budget and probably not known problems of the associations they have here in Zagreb and enough to hear their comment that the mayor of Zagreb Bandić sees mostly on TV and it is almost impossible to reach it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36401	Thank you. So now we're going to an individual debate. Honorable representative Boris Kunst. Here you go. Honorable representative Boris Kunst, individually, and he gave up, thank you very much. Then it is up to the distinguished representative, Romana Jerkovic. Here you go. She's gone. She's losing her right to argue. Then it's Mr. Flego's turn, and I'm going to be principled today and literally what it says, and I'm going to read every name and name it says, "Mr. Flego."
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36402	Mr. Vice President, to your principle, we will meet the proper principle, so we hope that we will all be satisfied. Thank you very much, Croatia is obviously a transition country, it is a country that moves from one party system to multiparty pluralism. And it is measured by the basic principles of political doctrines, which is that the state is as stable as society as its citizens are satisfied with those institutions that that state is establishing. Similarly, this principle can be extended and it is said that citizens or members of society are as satisfied as the political community allows them to self-organise in meeting their own interests or needs. And why is that? Because, in fact, in the fourth stage of its development by the governmental state, the managing state, the assistant state, is now, in fact, a little bit turning into a state interventionist that intervenes in the name of common interests against some of the over-emphasised or hypostrated partial interests that have succeeded in being imposed. Civil society is the one within which citizens are allowed to meet their social interests or common needs by their self-organisation. In this regard, civil society is a paradoxical institution in which the state is asked to support not state organisations, or government organisations, so that they can produce circumstances that enable citizens to be satisfied. Civilian, forgive me, civil society is therefore the framework, to repeat once again, which enables everyone, both equal and different, both white and black and yellow, and the believer and agnostic and atheist to meet their own organizations with their specific needs, without imposing any particular needs on anyone but to co-exist with others, to tolerate differences, to also learn from others to participate much more than cooperation, without violence and without imposing, and in fact the state needs to protect and enable. In this respect, civil society is the framework in which the basic elements of democracy are developed, and whatever the state is in some of its activities, this civil society needs to be more active in order to compensate for these activities and thus enable citizens to enjoy them. Similarly, civil society actually expands the horizons of the current possibilities of the state, it provides a wealth of diversity and contributes indirectly, and I would even say directly, the quality of individual lives and life together. In this regard, with the activities of the Civil Society Foundation, I think we must be grateful, we must be satisfied. And that, colleagues and colleagues, is the miraculously satisfying point where both assemblies agree. And that's the moment and element that fills us with almost consensual pleasure because there's something that we're almost all happy with. I'll be quite brief in that regard. It seems to me that perhaps with these remarks you have heard, and civil society and this foundation are almost the only ones who learn or who, I will not say listen, but who listens to the suggestions of the Parliament and follows them. Perhaps with activities so far, and more attention should have been paid to minorities, endangered, sensitive, whether they were cultural, sexual, national minorities. It also seems to me that we are increasingly exposed to the difficulties with the availability of information, but whenever we are fighting for more available information, much more at local level than at national level, we must also advocate the protection of personal data, hence personal dignity. So, it might be some suggestions that in the future, one part of the funds are already represented, but with which it seems to me that the state is increasingly deficiting, that it should replace them with our activity within civil society. The only thing I would suggest more about that other side of the assembly is that when we do a budget rebalance that we all advocate together that civil society gets more financial support from the government, because the more funds it will be, the more activities it will be, and the more activities and pleasures of the citizens. In addition to another note, the civil society foundation and otherwise civil society in their self-organization contributes so much to the necessary and so much-wanted decentralisation in this pre-centralised state, that it is also another big plus on the side of the civil society foundation. And in this respect, I wish you many successes, with congratulations on your work so far and your desire to be with you next time president of the board of directors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36403	Thank you. And now it is up to the distinguished representative Susana Bilić Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36404	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Director of the National Foundation, Mr. Representative of the Department of Administration and Associates. My colleagues and fellow MPs. The annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2008 is a review of the achievements and achievements of the Foundation to promote and support the development of civil society in the Republic of Croatia. Because the task is national foundations to provide professional and financial support to programmes that promote the sustainability of the non-profit sector inter-resorship cooperation, civic initiatives, philanthropy, volunteering, as well as other programmes that achieve the purpose for which the trust is established. And what do we learn from this 2008 report? I will agree, in part, with previous speakers who have pointed out that we are more familiar with the report on work and state in the foundation than with the situation in the civil sector. I don't think that's a big flaw. I'm saying this as a suggestion that in the next reports submitted to this House, it should be complemented and extended. Because what we find out, here are the arguments. In January, so at the end of January 2008, the government appointed a second meeting of the National Foundation's Management Board. The National Foundation for Civil Society Development for the period 2008 to 2011. In July, for the second time, the manager was appointed Mrs. Cvetana Plavša-Matic for her term in 2008-2012, which I congratulate her on this occasion. And on November 24, last year, the foundation marked five years of its existence, namely the day it was registered in 2003. And the foundation ended in 2008 with 13 employees. What has marked the past 2008? According to the report, the year was a sign of decentralisation of financial support for the development of civil society and a model of strengthening regional development of civil society organisations, which is in fact a continuation of the activities with which the foundation began in 2007 which I particularly welcome and support. What else do we find out? I will also commend transparency in the work of the National Foundation, which during the year publishes the event calendar, publishes competitions and calls for expression of interest in order to inform civil society organisations in due time about the opportunities that exist for them in the current year, which brings about one of the principles of transparency. During 2008, the Foundation published 5 tenders under the programme to grant financial support, of which 2 tenders to civil society organisations projects, one to achieve institutional support for stabilisation and/or the development of the association and two to award awards, the development of volunteering in primary and secondary schools and the awards of units of local and regional regional self-government for the development of participating democracy. This award for volunteering which is awarded to primary and secondary schools is cashed and thus is awarded 5 for basics and 5 for secondary schools of 10000 kuna. And on this occasion, I congratulate all the primary and secondary schools that received this award for 2008 and may be an incentive for them and other primary and secondary schools in the Republic of Croatia to develop volunteering in 2009. Non-money prizes were awarded for five units of local and regional or regional self-government for the development of participating democracy in 2008. What have we learned from these five competitions? These five invitations to tender have received 328 applications of which 73 were rejected due to non-compliance with the tender conditions and 255 of them have been submitted to the assessment. 105 for financial support and these 5 non-financial rewards. In the display of financial support and there is now missing and what my predecessors have also said, and that is to see what it is and why they were rejected. Therefore, which tender conditions did not meet the projects received, and then clearly in these differences in the number that were sent for assessment and which support was granted nevertheless in future reports, I ask for a little more explanation and that. In the light of the financial support allocated to the counties in 2008, they are not allocated to the counties, but to civil society associations in the area of counties, we come up with interesting data. Of 355, forgive 350 total aid granted in respect of tenders and invitations in 2008. They are also included in the decentralised model as well as in the multi-annual support. It's a hundred and So, colleagues and colleagues out of 350, as many as 125 are related to the City of Zagreb. Of the remaining 20 counties, and we know that the City of Zagreb has a function of both the city and the county at the same time as 11 counties or more than 55% achieved support for one or five programmes, or five support. The remaining 9 support counties have been allocated between 8 and 48 support. My colleagues and colleagues, you will understand that I was particularly interested in the state of my Brod-Posavina County which is here, yesterday in a debate I pointed out convincingly in the last place by fiscal capacity among all 20 counties along with the City of Zagreb. We can't even compare with him. Neither the results, or the indicators I came up with, surprised me. First, the Ship-Posavia County achieved 5 support in the past 2008 in 4 in the contests published by the Foundation in 2008 and received one according to a decentralised model of which even this one according to the 2008 contest refers to the financing of multi-annual projects in the media, in the field of media. And it didn't surprise me, I wasn't surprised by the associations that got it. These are associations that are also recognized in Brod-Posavina County, but clearly for their work here through these support quality projects with which they compete have also received support from the National Foundation funds. So, a total of 5 associations from Brod-Posavina County received 474800 kuna. Why am I saying this? Because of the Foundation's revenues, the National Foundation for Civil Society Development in last 2008 amounted to 46 million 212000 kuna, which compared to the original budget of the Ship-Posavina County, which is only slightly larger, we must be aware of what total, i.e. the size of the total funds with which the Foundation, the National Foundation for Civil Society Development manages and disposes and we must be aware that the Republic of Croatia both through this way and from these aid figures, i.e. provides significant support for the development of civil society in the Republic of Croatia. And the way I see my time, girls, I'll do it again. Last year's motto of five years' work at the National Foundation was important to have support. And I ask that this debate of mine also goes in favour of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development having the support of us here in the Croatian Parliament. And the suggestions and remarks I made are only to improve the reports the foundation provides to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36405	Thank you. Now it is the honourable representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36406	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here is a report from the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2008 which the National Foundation was founded in 2003, so last year it marked the fifth anniversary of its action. Its mission is to promote and support the development of civil society in the Republic of Croatia, and its activities aim to achieve active citizenship in the development of a modern, democratic and inclusive society in the Republic of Croatia. The objectives of the National Foundation are to encourage citizens to participate more actively in the development of the local community, to build civil society capacities, to develop cross-sectoral cooperation and to cooperate between civil society organisations, to develop social entrepreneurship and employment in the non-profit sector, to increase the impact of civil society in the process of adopting various forms of public policy. The values on which the vision of the National Foundation rests and its objectives are respect for human rights, public action, responsibility, co-operation, the work of all participants and community development, information, tolerance and respect for diversity and not violence. As I said last year, the National Foundation marked its fifth anniversary of work with the motto "It's Important to Have Support". It also successfully completed its 5th year of work, which was a sign of decentralisation of financial support, the development of civil society and the model of strengthening regional development, civil society organisations. With this model, the National Foundation, the financing of short-term citizens' initiatives through the "Our Community Contribution" contest is conducted in partnership with four other regional foundations, so in Osijek, Pula, Split and Zagreb. In this way, it builds and strengthens the social and financial capital of the community, which is the key link between its sustainable development and the integration and activation of citizens and citizens, thus increasing the level of their involvement, commitment and solidarity in promoting the development of the community in which they live. The programme of regional development and strengthening the capacity of civil society organisations at local and regional level represents the achievement of one of the key strategic objectives of the national strategy, the creation of an incentive environment for the development of civil society and measures related to the unification of regional development, civil society organisations in the Republic of Croatia. It is extremely important here to point out, and it is also mentioned in this 2008 report, that the national foundation has enabled the employment of 704 people, and 4462 volunteers and volunteers have included in local community development projects and democratisation of Croatian society. Here, here, I still want to look briefly at civil society associations, which is why they're getting support. I will briefly mention, of course, the associations of people with disabilities that we can see in the reports that they are also on the list of associations that have received some form of support. It is extremely important, therefore, to have support, it is extremely important to have support, I would say, in particular, that support is needed by persons with disabilities because in order to apply for any kind of competition to achieve any support, it was necessary to strengthen people in those associations who, up until a few years ago, did not even know how to write, fill out the documentation for the competition, or write a project. Here I would also like to thank you, and I think that this is also an extremely good cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the National Foundation and the Association of Persons with Disabilities, because the roof organisation of the Association of Persons with Disabilities, the community of the Alliance of Persons with Disabilities, has started with a project of empowering persons with disabilities in associations. One of the projects financed by the Government through the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity was that associations, i.e. persons with disabilities working in them are strengthened in a way that they can fill out documentation in competitions and that they can write projects. In this way, they have also managed to achieve support in competitions of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development. Well, as my colleagues mentioned before here, I must also point out some of them, such as the therapeutic riding, so the Association "Krila" in Zagreb. At first, it was just her, and today we already have the Association for Therapy Ride in Sisak, I think one in Karlovac. "Inclusion", the Association of Students "Imagine", the Association for Dogs Guides and Mobility, which is thus also strengthened that people who were employed at the time, and here today are still at the Association for Dogs Guides and Mobility through this kind of empowerment and this kind of support have been able to move into an extremely powerful and large project which may not have a direct connection with the National Foundation at this moment, but I believe that the National Foundation has also given support to this association because, I say, they have been able and brave and with the support of both the City of Zagreb and the Government of the Republic of Croatia have launched an extremely large project, which is the Centre for Dogs Guides and Mobility which is here today marks their first year of successful work. Here, time is running out, I will only end up with you directors and the entire Civil Society Development Foundation wishing and further successful work and here I will be the next year when we discuss the report for this year I will be extremely pleased if I see more associations of people with disabilities on the list of support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36407	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36408	Dear Mr. Vice President, honored by Mrs. Plavsan Matic, colleagues and fellow MPs. I would particularly like to refer to two segments of this report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, which I believe may be insufficiently known and presented to the public, and are extremely important. It is primarily the fact that the Civil Society Development Foundation was the first public institution to receive a certificate with 9,000 and one for the management of civil society projects. This important international certificate, which was awarded by the international certification house, in one accredited and in the Republic of Croatia, therefore has double to express the legitimacy of both international and Croatian, and it has certified the foundation itself is an extremely important fact in the life and work of the foundation. It is known from the management system theory that organisations that have well-designed, implemented the quality management process over a long period of time, so within a few years, and this has happened right now, because here the foundation has for several years already with 9,000 and one certificate, that this all leads to a significant reduction in the disorder, entropy in the organization itself and consequently there is a reduction in the costs of the total business. Therefore, the foundation is one of the examples seen in the Republic of Croatia as it is also cost-effective to deal with social resources, saves the state budget and directs this money to that basic business process of the foundation, i.e. the financing of civil society projects. In accordance with the requirement of the 9 thousand standard, the same 9 thousand one trust fund, that is, every certified institution must have a mission and a vision. Even though the mission and vision of the foundation can be easily checked on the web portal, it should be mentioned again that the vision of the national foundation is, by its action, to seek to achieve active citizenship in the development of a modern, democratic and inclusive society in the Republic of Croatia. And its mission, which stems from the vision, is to promote support for the development of civil society in the Republic of Croatia, which is in line with the law under which the foundation is established. In line with this, as I have mentioned earlier, many state administration bodies should look up to the trust, perhaps even there to look for experiences and seek advice to be certified themselves, as in Croatia only a few ministries are certified according to the same 9,000 single certificate. It's a championship of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Transport and Communications because without that certificate, our sailors couldn't even get on the side of the ships or board, but not on ours. Then, the Ministry of Science, etc. However, this commendable initiative should certainly be extended, as it promotes transparency of action, transparency of the budget and effective and responsible management of social resources. The operation of the foundation is also seen in another very, very important segment as thoughtful and domestic. The fund has been using operating Linux systems on its computers since the start of its operation, so free software support uses open office as a software package that replaces similar, but commercial, much more expensive, but not better software packages for text processing, computer processing, presentations etc. Therefore, there is also a systematic reflection and a far-reaching approach of the Civil Society Development Foundation to its overall business. As a crown, it should also be pointed out that the National Foundation for Civil Society Development offers a computer programme for associations called precisely that which can be downloaded from their portal, and this programme is designed to facilitate the management of their business processes, including financial processes, so that they reduce their operating costs to a long period of time so that associations can serve, or devote themselves to, the basic in their activities. So, these few examples show a very, very well-designed and systematic approach to the operation of the foundation as responsible for the management of the funds that the social budget and we are giving through the adoption of the budget, as well as the foundation by acting and moving, by promoting volunteering at the end, as I said in the opening speech on behalf of the club contributes and not only to the general social good and development of social capital, but at that ground floor level, helping and growing the gross social product that should, indeed, be honored by Mrs. Cvetana Plavsan Matic, more systematically present that you are essentially seeing this contribution and not being modest in this respect, because it is at the benefit of all of us. I am deeply hoping that in the rebalancing of the budget that follows us, we, as Parliamentarians, will not be able to cut the resources that are intended for the foundation because it can be multiplely entrenched and returned through significant savings to the government itself and to the wider social community. I congratulate you on your work. I hope next year you'll be at least this successful if you don't succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36409	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36410	Vice President, Director, Representatives of the Central Government Office. Here's a short one. Almost all colleagues at the beginning said how important the role of the National Foundation is, and it is good indeed that for 5 years here you have marked your work with the motto "It is important to have support". I believe that from these discussions today you have seen that fellow MPs support the work of this foundation, and above all no one has, so I have to or have missed it, I apologize if I am, has not mentioned the unusual appearance of your report, a completely unusual methodology that the foundation reports to us about its work, like one newsletter, I would say the presses that are so likable and read, but from which the entire work of the foundation is visible, so I would say not only in 2008 this is the 2008 report but almost all five years of your life. It is indisputable that the foundation has a really significant role in democratisation and the development of civil society, that the influence of citizens through the work of civil society associations on public policy as a whole is great, that in these last years, by developing and increasing the number of associations. I'm not going to talk about all the associations here, is what we say sometimes civil society associations come up like mushrooms after rain. But a large part, a large number of organizations that you too point out in this report of yours, has a really significant role to play. And my colleagues have just highlighted the importance of this area. It is important that the foundation, above all, pointed out and underlined that the work of volunteers is very important in Croatia and this number of 4000 462 volunteers involved in the work of civil society associations is indeed a large number. In particular, this is important, and I am speaking from the knowledge of the local community, where more and more young people appear in these organizations as volunteers for working in humanitarian associations. Very significant for young people right now. It is important to point out when I mentioned to the local community that your contribution in cooperation with the local community is great. From this one, I'll call it an article, because it looks like a newspaper article, and we can find out that you've started a prize that has the title "Together for the Better". Together for a better life for our citizens, but also for a co-operation between the civil sector, I would say the social state sector. That's exactly the kind of reward that's been fueled by small environments. Here I found a small municipality, but very powerful, which really works for its citizens through the work of these associations, it's the Jasenovac municipality that won that award. You won't believe much of it, they have a small budget of their municipalities, but they do very much through the work of their associations, just by reporting to competitions not only in your foundation, but in various ministries. So this is a good example of how the local community can be, and ultimately it must be included in any case in order to improve both the conditions and the lives of its fellow citizens. This means that they do not expect associations to get everything from their budgets, that they will be provided with funds, but that they will offer very good programs that will recognize and trust various, especially yours. But I would also say to the ministries and others who provide such support to local society associations. It is important to point out, and I will really commend you here that the foundation in this 5 years is in some way, not in some way, but certainly decentralised its resources and entrusted it with what they said in 4 of these regional departments in Split, Osijek, Pula, whether Zagreb is competent to allocate financial resources. Because like my colleagues said, it's important to be as close to the local community as possible and to recognize the work of these associations. Here is the final part of the report, in fact, this financial part of the report, which speaks of the number of approved support under the programmes and the financial allocations. It is visible, however, and here I think that counterpart Bilić Vardić pointed out, that perhaps this financial part of the manager is not enough to see why some of these associations that have submitted for the grant of financial support, why have they not received this support? Maybe when you talk to people on the ground, I'd say, in the local community, they often wonder, why didn't we get it? You did a lot of work in education and colleague Lukacic said, in education I would say how to make a good program, how to offer it, how to design it. And that foundation has a significant role to play. But I'm asking you for all those who ask why I didn't get some funding, and I think my program was good. Please, if you can, and I have also pointed out this on the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of the National Minors, discussing this report, that in the following reports, you are somewhere indicating that so many support here and there have been offered, that they have been rejected for the reasons of these, these and those, in order to find out, because indeed not all programmes can be good, that you may indicate more transparently these criteria in certain areas, because then all these doubts that you now believe among the circular associations with such a good report will be removed. And maybe just one suggestion at the end, well-intentioned. In addition to this report, which is easy to read, I said, and it is likable, perhaps in the following reports, and that was the conclusion, I will remind you and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities that, in addition to this information on approved, unauthorized and why unauthorized projects may in some way, in a parliamentary discussion, at least sum up this financial part in one methodological and different way to be a little more acceptable and that it could round up the whole of this issue. Here, of course, this report should be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36411	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36412	Dear colleagues. I just wanted to say that there are clear criteria for the evaluation of projects that... At least now I didn't say anything controversial. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] So, there are clear criteria for the evaluation of projects that the trust fund and then simply after the evaluation is created one rank list and the other according to me available information can get insight into these reviews so that it really does not hide anything and should not... Indeed, the criteria are also available on the web pages when tendering and, in fact, associations can get all these criteria for insight both before and after and during the proposal of their projects. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36413	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36414	I mean, when my colleague warned me that there were criteria on the website. I know there's a colleague, but I didn't mean it, and I didn't mean anything by it. When you talk to civil society associations, then exactly what I think Mrs. Matic knew what I was saying because I was saying it on the board. It is for the associations to say why hiding a list of possible associations that have not made a good programme, which do not meet these criteria because then, as a representative from a local community, you can say, let's not hide anything, nothing is inaccessible, everyone has the right to error, you haven't done a good job, you have to meet these criteria, and we have no notice of any number of associations, and more than a hundred associations have not met those criteria, why hide them.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36415	Thank you. We have yet another debate with the individual distinguished representative, Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36416	Dear Vice President, Director, representatives of the Ministry of Administration. Here, according to the atmosphere in this hall, it would appear that something important is not being discussed, and according to the financial statement of the funds spent last year, it would also be said that something very important is not being discussed. However, my assessment of not only last year's work of the National Foundation but the total of the past five years is that it really is something that is extremely important for Croatia not only for civil society but for democracy as a whole, because above what the foundation has affected the development of civil society, I think that is precisely what has affected the development of democracy in Croatia as a whole and the development of society as a whole in Croatia. And this report and the work of the National Foundation deserves and would deserve much more attention not only in the debate in the national parliament but in the public at all. Unfortunately, for the foundation of this public attention, there is not enough or so because there is not one affair. It would be much easier to find the foundation on the front pages of newspapers and media if there were some affairs or some problems. There is no such thing as a trust fund, so unfortunately there are no foundations on the front pages, and the foundation really deserves very much attention because it has contributed greatly to the development of civil society, the development of NGOs because it has done some things for them, which is that it has supported the work of the NGO sector, that it has encouraged the work of the NGO sector, that it has encouraged the cooperation of the NGO sector, that it has encouraged civil society cooperation and the finding of partners in the government sector, which here under the government sector includes both local self-government and administration. What was further done by the foundation was that it recognized the successful ones, that it successfully recognised and highlighted and highlighted best practice to the successful ones, and ultimately awarded awards and recognitions to successful projects, successful associations and successful individuals who stood out above the average in the work of the NGO sector or civil society. And there is indeed one huge job that has been done, which is invisible but which, like a large web currently drawn up in Croatia, does good things for the citizens of Croatia every day, so civil society has entered to replace what the government does or cannot do, or is not in the government sector to do. Civil society works well where government or local self-government deafens it or not. What the civil sector does is therefore recognise the needs of citizens precisely in the area of equalising minority opportunities in the broadest sense, and involving young people in the decision-making process that can be political decisions but can therefore also be decisions to participate in participating democracy on local self-government, so that young people influence decision-making, or initiate themselves, or solve some of their own problems. Exactly the positive examples from the city and county from which I come speak about where youth associations, supported by national trusts and other funds or other funds and the ability to obtain funds, have solved some of their huge needs or problems, have formed, have strengthened their administrative capacity or have been able to write projects, have received funds. For example, they have arranged several areas where they now operate and today they receive additional funds to organise very important actions and manifestations in the town of Koprivnica, in Koprivnica-Kristevci County, in a way that motivates them to participate in the decision-making process in a way that they organise, motivate and actively spend their free time or in a way that they can solve some of their other problems. Also, I would especially like to highlight two programs here. One is a rural development program where there is therefore an association that you would probably never hear of and that is... The rose received funds and organized a event where today a large number of citizens from the region are coming to this event and they themselves have been encouraged and started to think about how to improve the quality of life in their microcentre because it is a small local committee on the edge of the city. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the second is a programme relating to a regional development programme where there are five sub-programmes, in our county it's a program... which implements one of the extremely active associations from the Cross... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] which has therefore equipped and established complete communication channels and opportunities that those who have failed to do so today have either managed to establish or raise their level of ability to apply to projects or who do not see how they could do so, thus helping them to define a general project, to define the idea, but then after that, to write and apply it and help them implement it, to implement the project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, indeed, the work of the National Foundation is for every praise, I hope that these good words we heard during today's debate will be translated into government support in a way that both government and in these difficult times will not reduce but increase these funds because the effects are immeasurable, they are more than what is financially allocated to the work of the Foundation and they are long-term, so today they are not giving money, tomorrow I have the benefit of what the Government and then the National Foundation invests in the development of civil society or programmes implemented by civil society in the long-term and lasting return to the community whether at local or national level and long-term creates a new added value of this society, which is therefore raising the quality of citizens in the local community or national level. As the National Foundation points out examples of good practice of civil society, i.e. associations and individuals, it would be good to point out now that the national foundation is indeed an example of the best practice of what this state does and it would be good to declare that this example of the national foundation is indeed an indicator of some other foundations, or to be an indicator of some other governmental part of the sector as to how public money should be treated and how this public money should be transferred very clearly and publicly and transparently to the users of this public budget money, but then also to seek control over how this public money is spent and to see whether it should continue to be supported or therefore put on hold, or to say that the administrative capacity of those who applied for those funds should be raised. Therefore, as you are granting the recognitions of best practice, let me personally, and I hope that my colleagues will share it with me to share the same recognition of best practice as doing so for the benefit of citizens and communities as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36417	Thank you. We have one replica, Ms. Representative and Vice President Željka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36418	Thank you very much, so just a little replica, or supplement, some kind of supplement perhaps on a colleague of Mršić's. He spoke highly of the work of the foundation and the contribution that the foundation thus gives to the development of the civil sector but then it also means the development of society and democratisation, democratisation, the strengthening of society. A colleague Mršić made a small parallel and asked the state to understand and understand it in the right way and to support it financially despite the difficulties. What I wanted to say here, by joining all the positive grades without any glorification because I think this is one continuity, but I really join those who have highlighted one positive role here, one example of rational good business, functioning with relatively little money and extracting the maximum effect from them, from that money. On the other hand, I say, a parallel with the state has been withdrawn, the state is mentioned, and I would just like to say here that it is precisely through the functioning of a trust or quality, the efficient functioning of a trust where it is also available with conditionally spoken public money and on the other hand the functioning of a state which also, through the ministries and various other institutions, supports the development of civil society but is significantly and significantly less effective than the foundation does. I wanted to say here that the state needs to be seen, organisationally and functionally on how the foundation works, and then we're going to come up with savings in the state budget, in public money, we're going to have a bigger impact and cut costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36419	Answer Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36420	Well, colleague Antunović, I have really spoken from personal experience working with the foundation and the impressions passed on to me by associations that have worked with the foundation so far and I have personal experience working with representatives of others who distribute public money. And I fully agree with you, therefore, that unlike a foundation that has clear criteria, a completely clear procedure, which publishes all of its conclusions where the evaluations can be obtained, i.e. the evaluation of all projects for this little amount of money with how many foundations there are for a large amount of other part of the money involved, which we have in the state budget and being transferred, it is mostly the work of political discretion, therefore, without clear, public criteria and without reason why someone is and why someone can't and why someone can't. And that's exactly why I... So this example of good practice is also being expanded in the government sector. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because the foundation has done very much, good in the NGO sector because our NGO sector has therefore accepted and applied the principles of transparency and work as the foundation does or as the foundation asks them to. Now it would be good if the foundation could do the same to the government's sector, therefore, to influence the government, to apply this example of good practice itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36421	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Mrs Cvetana Plavša-Matić, head of the foundation, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36422	Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs. I sincerely thank you for this debate, because I think it has shown actually on the one hand your support for our work which is extremely important to us, but our work is not because of us, but because of the support we provide for civil society organisations. And on the other hand, it has also shown certain concrete suggestions that we will certainly appreciate, because I think our reporting in this House of Commons is extremely important. So we're going to pay attention next year when and the year that we're going to take you to the state of civil society development, because every two years we're doing a very extensive, long-term research precisely on the state of civil society development. It's too expensive a process to do every year. We worked it in 2007 on a sample of nearly a thousand organizations and we will now do it in this year 2009 so that the report next year, our work, will also include the part related to the analysis of the state of development of civil society in Croatia. And we will certainly devote more space to this regional coverage report, that is, this segment that shows how many civil society organisations apply to our competitions and how much support they receive from certain counties. In order to increase the actual number of organizations that occur from individual counties, we will certainly step up our work with regional networks, meaning that they teach them, educate those small organisations to be able to report to such large and demanding competitions. And the fact is that we have great resources. For us it is really big money and we are very responsible for accessing this money, but the fact is that it is only 7% of the total funds that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the units of local self-government provide for different projects and programmes of civil society organisations. This reporting segment regarding why some organisations have not received support is the same thing that we will include in the report, in fact in the analysis of why they did not get, not publishing information about which the organisations did not satisfy, but an analysis of why they did not pass a particular cycle of evaluation. Here, thank you very much for the discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36423	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36424	Annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2008 is proposed by the National Foundation for Civil Society Development. In line with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2008. A year.". Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 105 votes for and 1 abstention the Annual Report has been accepted. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities proposes to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: "The Management Board of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development undertakes that the reports in the next period comply with the observations and proposals presented in the debate.". I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 95 votes for and 8 abstentions, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36425	We move to - Data Protection Agency's 2008 work Report is submitted to the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The law on the protection of basic data. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the sessions. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? On behalf of the promoter, Ms. Vilena Gasparović, Deputy Director of the Agency. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36426	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data shall submit every year a report on its work to the Croatian Assembly on the basis of Article 31. The law on the protection of personal data. That's what she did this year. Today, there is a report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data for 2008. In the agency's work, this is already the fourth report in a row. The report shows that the agency has strengthened and strengthened its supervisory role year after year. Its basic task is to monitor the protection of personal data on the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia, i.e. how the controllers collect and process personal data from the personal data collection and whether or not they violate the law and how much they respect the provisions of this law. The Agency noted in its report that the 2008 focus was on the number of controls carried out and focused on the processing of personal data in certain sectors. It paid particular attention to the collection and processing of personal data in the electronic communications, health, science, education and culture sector, because these are areas in which personal data are collected in large quantities, especially in healthcare where sensitive data are concerned. The analysis of this report shows the situation in the field of protection of personal data, i.e. whether that protection of the right to personal data is respected. In addition, the Agency has become a full member of the international conferences and work bodies of the European Union in the field of the protection of personal data. Last year, it co-operated with all state and public authorities, especially in the preparation of proposals for individual laws in the part where the Agency could give its opinion on personal data. We did everything to try to promote the right to protection of personal data, and to this end we organized seminars, conferences, and we also collaborated with other bodies, institutions, so with the Academy of Local Democracy. We worked together to promote both the right to access information and to promote the right to protection of personal data. To this end, the agency has also printed brochures, marked the European Data Protection Day, conducted surveys to find out how familiar citizens are with the right to the protection of personal data, whether they even know that there is a law and that their right is protected by law, and that there is an institution that will incur to them in the exercise of that right, or in violation of the right to help. In its developmental path, the Agency has proved to be an institution in the field of protection of personal data, which also helps other countries which, like us, are not in the European Union, but which are only in the establishment of their supervisory authorities and institutions and which are just passing laws on the protection of personal data. This is how the European Union recognized this state institution and the agency competed in obtaining a project to strengthen its supervisory authority. At the time of the submission of this report, we have entered the IPA project and we will continue to work on the development of how the law, so to improve the law, because our law is in fact in line with the European directive, except for some small remarks that are usually passed every year by the European Union. So we're going to work on training, promoting the right to protection of personal data through this project, and try to get as close as possible to the higher standards of protection of personal data. Such an agency and the foundation and the law and its existence is not a repressive institution and has no criminal powers to sanction offenders directly, so all those who do not respect the provisions and violate the rights to the protection of personal data. The Agency will continue as a basic task and a goal in further development, and will try to work through this project on teaching, on education of citizens and all those processing personal data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36427	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I see you don't. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36428	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Deputy Director, the esteemed colleague and colleague. The HDZ Club will support the Annual Work Report for 2008 of the Personal Data Protection Agency to be delivered to this House under the provision of Article 31. The law on the protection of personal data. In accordance with Article 32 of the Treaty on the The Data Protection Act shall be carried out by the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data as a public authority. Controls the implementation of the protection of personal data, indicates the observed abuses of personal data collection, draws up a list of state and international organisations that have adequate personal data protection, resolves for the application for infringement of the rights guaranteed by law, maintains a central register in which the records of personal data collections supplied by the Head of the Collection comply with the Article of the Law. The Agency shall also carry out other tasks in accordance with Article 33. The law on the protection of personal data. The Agency’s work resources shall be provided on the basis of Article 28. The Act on the Protection of Personal Data from the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia. ... One year from the state budget, the agency was provided with 7 million kuna, and 6 million 854 thousand 933 kuna was spent, which is 95.61% and compared to the insurance and planned funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The difference in the implementation of the 4.39% plan, amounting to 315 thousand kuna, refers to the expenditure on salaries, since the reporting year does not provide for employment dynamics for lack of adequate space, and given austerity measures have affected the reduction of material expenditures. On 31 December 2008, 24 persons were employed by the agency, of which 16 persons were highly trained, more professional training 3 and 5 persons. Seven graduate lawyers were employed in personal data protection jobs. The activities of overseeing legality in the collection and processing of personal data are carried out by 4 graduate lawyers, while... technical protection, i.e. information security of personal data, is carried out by two graduate engineers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the report they are in Chapter 6... the cooperation described by the European Union bodies on the accession process to the European Union, as well as the reviews of the conferences and workshops attended by the representatives of the Agency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Chapter 10 of the report detailed the cooperation and participation in projects of state authorities and public administrations such as the Ministry of Justice, the Central State Office for Development Strategy, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Government's Office for Human Rights, the Ministry of Finance, the Central Office of Customs Administration, the Government's Office for e-Croatia, the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Chapter 12 describes the agency's conduct on requests from state authorities, legal entities and citizens. The agency received a total of 155 irregular cases in 2008, of which 102 or 66%, while the share of other items, answers and indications was 53% and 34% respectively. In addition to the above cases in 2008, the Agency resolved 122 subjects covering the following areas. Harmonisation of legislation, accession to the European Union, international transfer of personal data, projects, internal acts and proposals, amendment of regulations and others. The data presented show that 277, unwarranted cases were received in 2008, and were resolved by the end of the year. The examinations of the above-mentioned entities mainly referred to similar topics as in the previous reporting period, and the Agency adopted opinions, recommendations and answers such as those. The representation of personal data contained in the workbook and personal data contained in the official records of higher school institutions, access to information containing personal data, information on the child's personal data, the use of personal data on the internet service of Facebook giving personal data for the need of state statistics, the publication on the website of the personal data of students and professors, the publication of personal data from civil servants, the specific data contained in the state mother plants, the video surveillance, the publication of the property card of judicial officials on the website of the Ministry of Justice, personal data on shareholders related to the authorisation of insight and use of the same, the publication of results on the college's website, the provision of data needed for scientific research, the collection of personal data, pre-school and school children, the collection and use of personal data in public places, the collection and use of personal data for the purposes of the prize games. The 13th chapter also shows a review of the surveillance carried out by the agency. Analysing the number of official controls carried out in certain sectors, it is clear that in 2008, the Agency paid particular attention to the protection of personal data on health, since the previous reporting period identified violations of the law and inadequate technical protection of personal data on health institutions. The telecommunications sector... with an emphasis on the processing and collection of a large number of data and the implementation of technical protection measures to access and access personal data of unauthorized persons. The state administration sector monitors the processing of personal data and is linked to the international crossing of the state border to introduce a national information system for the management of the state border of the Ministry of the Interior. In education and science, the processing of student personal data is supervised for the use and introduction of new information technologies e-matics. Acting under the official duty of those 288 measures... for the delivery of records of personal data collections in the central register, joined 125 leaders or 43% and did not act on the orders of 163 leaders or 57%. Since the measures imposed have not been followed by the Head of the Collection, it is evident that the degree of respect for citizens' rights in processing personal data is not yet at the satisfactory level that the Agency as a supervisory authority wanted to achieve. Therefore, for the non-compliance with the orders of the Agency, it will, according to the Heads of the Collection, initiate criminal liability to the competent authority on the basis of Articles 34 and 36. The law on the protection of personal data. In 2008, new obligations received by the Agency confirm that in the Republic of Croatia in the field of personal data protection have been included in the ways and forms and actions and in the search for the best solution to possible challenges and overall action required by a future member of the European Union. However, as the report points out, all objectives and tasks have not been fully achieved. As it points out to raising citizens' awareness, strengthening the responsibility of the debtors in protecting and implementing privacy and strengthening information security, education of young people on the importance of this area and good and effective action, failure to fulfil the obligations of the future member of the European Union are the main upcoming tasks in the coming period. From all of this, it is evident that the report for the previous year of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data is complete and comprehensive, as the HDZ Club will accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36429	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36430	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished deputy directors, colleagues and fellow MPs. The report before us shows that the Agency has been recognised as a partner in the protection and control of the privacy of citizens through activities, and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is making increasing efforts in the field of protection of personal data from year to year to improve the quality of this area and to achieve the highest standard of protection of personal data. As usual, we want to explain the reasons why we are forming this attitude and support this report in question. The report in an overall manner and through an acceptable structure shows the obligations and problems the agency encountered during 2008. In doing so, it is recognised as a surveillance entity and a partner in the protection of privacy, not only from state and county bodies and institutions, but also from media, trade unions, but also from citizens themselves. However, the report in question shows that the degree of respect for citizens' rights in defence of personal data is not yet at the satisfactory level they would like to reach. In doing so, the Agency shall, as a supervisory authority, act as a supervisory authority for non-compliance with the orders of the competent authorities, also initiate criminal liability against the responsible persons. They are very interesting questions that the agency has received, and they mainly refer to similar topics or issues. As in the previous reporting period and we will list some, and above all, this is the availability of personal data contained in the workbook and personal data contained in official records of higher school institutions, information on the child's personal data, the use of personal data on websites, collection, delivery, publication and export of data from the Republic of Croatia to other countries, the use of public surveillance visions, blacklists in banks, property cards of officials, the use of citizens' home numbers, as well as a number of other data. In addition, to praise the public the work of the agency via info phone, because it also wants to get as close as possible to the users of services especially to our citizens. This opportunity would point to, for example, data protection in the system of telecommunications, trade and healthcare, which can be highly sensitive areas. In fact, the development of information communication technology in trade and healthcare creates assumptions for faster and simpler access to user data, customer services or patients. Among other things, there is a view of keeping traffic data and telecommunications data users contrary to the rules on credit card withdrawal except for a reader who is intended to pay through a cashier at the register to create a database of customers' data is thought of various registers of patients who are not protected in accordance with the rules as well as how well they can carry easy access to data, so it can also result in unwanted phenomena, especially if the information reaches someone who wants to abuse them or thus harm an individual, family or community. For example, raising unprotected lab results. All we can remember is providing such information about HIV positive girls and problems they encountered when enrolling in kindergarten or school. In addition to the mentioned telecommunications, trade, health problems are present in the science and education sector. We agree with the agency's proposal to strengthen the work towards fundamental human rights associations and students in the coming period. In particular, we would like to point out the problem of the right to the privacy of primary school children. In this regard, we recommend greater engagement and cooperation between the competent ministry and the Personal Data Protection Agency and we appeal to support media that would all be in the field of education of representatives of schools and parents and thus warn of sources of manipulation of unwitting individuals who can harm children's privacy rights. In this way, the abuses that exist in the publication of children's personal data on websites available to the unlimited circle of users will be reduced. We hope that the agency will also have an impact on raising citizens' awareness, increased responsibility for the protection and application of privacy, increasing information security, more appropriate spatial conditions in the education of professional staff and implementation of international standards. Generally speaking, a data protection culture requires a clear definition and behaviour of the persons to whom this data is available. Given that much of the staff from the body of the state administration and legal persons during their professional work of happiness with many very sensitive data, it is necessary to further define the rules of their behaviour and their relationship to data and information. These rules must be clear, available to the public and serve as a guide in the behavior of professionals. Therefore, the Croatian Peasant Party supports the government's and relevant bodies' efforts to protect personal data from possible abuses. In doing so, we would like to commend and support other participants in the chain who care about increasing the protection of personal data from possible abuse. With the end of our debate, we will say that the report gives us hope that in the near future we can expect an even better situation in this area. For all of these reasons, the Croatian Peasant Party will support the Agency's 2008 work report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36431	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36432	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the honorable representatives of the agency. Unlike my predecessors on behalf of the HNS Club, I must at first declare that we will not support this report. There's a whole series of reasons for that, and I'll mention the most important. But for the introduction, let's say for those who have forgotten that this is an agency that has been celebrated with those famous opinions about the publication of the defence register when it has given two conflicting opinions in a relatively short time. In the first, she said there were no legal obstacles to publishing the data from the general part of the register, and in the second, when the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government, the current prime minister warned them with her letter that it was not clear what it said there, then the explicits wrote that there was no of course legal conditions. So it's an agency where 24 people work, one solid drive. It's about three times more to you than it does in our offices to issue construction and location permits per county and city. Now, what does 24 people do? Twenty-four people first have 5 hundred squares of their space, which means each of them has more than 20 squares of office space on average per person. So, it's a big crowd. As you can see, they're very tight. I suppose that made it difficult for their working conditions, and then they totaled three thousand 316 items that they solved by calling them "understands" that we understand both the most common records or receipts of so-called. personal data records and that's one of the easiest jobs you can even imagine in the administration. So someone e-mails you the records, you just store it and that's all. So in these 3 thousand 331 items they received they managed to solve 3 thousand 316 with great superhuman efforts there are as many as 277 irregular objects, 196 direct controls with the head of the collection, so when you look at how they worked so hard, it was one effect that could freely give this agency an epithet of a swimming chip, who works in that agency fell to him in honey just like that. You will rarely find in our public administration an institution in which you are so fine and without any stress. I think those who work in that agency will live for a hundred years, with them, stress and speed will be gone. They were able to address the 641 phone call in 220 working days, which is a little less than three days because these are very complicated calls. Namely, you know how long you have to explain whether someone had the right to use your personal data or not. So, this phone conversation must take at least 45 minutes because otherwise at two o’clock the line is open daily does not cost more than three calls. So, there's no free line but two hours a day, so if you're lucky to call in those two hours without the phone being picked up, you'll get an answer to your question and if you call out of those two hours then you'll be told it's very sorry but those two hours open to the public are over, so you call tomorrow. So, you have more details, let's say, with all our international activities that are commendable, this agency has joined the so-called Frankoffon's conference. On my question on the board does the key person know, so the director of this agency knows if the French is not known because I thought a man knows French so that about the same cost when he's already going to international meetings to get close to the Frankofon conference that he doesn't have to pay the translator, so it would be convenient to see what we're doing, like Tunisia, I don't know... Belgium, Luxembourg, what they are doing in this field despite all other international institutions, i.e. coordination and conferences in which we already participate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But a man doesn't speak French, so... God must take someone with him again so that not one person can do it, but two must go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In any case, one good step forward is to print materials, info materials that the agency began to deal with, but when I saw these materials, I couldn't believe that such materials existed. Namely, what is the purpose of the printed material in this particular case. So, the catalog of so-called. the most common issues, i.e. the issues that you get the most frequency from people who do not know whether their rights are violated by the Personal Data Protection Act or not. And you have to specify those questions by frequency and give concise answers that answer to whether or not you do. Look at those printed materials, I hope you've got them all in your... So you'll see what it looks like, let's say the answer to the question of whether someone is allowed to record you on camera at work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If you can tell me from that answer whether or not you can, I'll pay for lunch. So, what are those answers for, I don't know. So, the man, he thinks he's in danger in his right, in a particular situation, and he's asking if the employer has the right to record me. The answer is, you'll go back you'll never come back... Wherever you put Mr. Roshin. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Another thing, let's say this is one situation, if you didn't know the director of the national and university libraries had put the camera above the entrance to your office. 'Cause I guess he doesn't forget who he was, so he can keep it in writing. And now the question arises what a man who runs a cultural institution needs is a camera to the door of his own office. Is that a violation of some rights or not? Or is that one notorious waste of money? And it could be that this camera doesn't work at all, but it could be that it's... So that people who pass immediately stop... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it wouldn't be an accident if they didn't think the big brother wasn't watching them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now I'm a bit of a cartoon, but the agency has so much to do in this country that they work day and night they wouldn't be able to do it all but not this way. Waiting for someone to call you on the phone, waiting to send you a database, that's not it. The country that introduced the system of protection of personal data relatively recently, which develops a system on principles that operate in countries with a much longer tradition and experience, so if you want perhaps eclative examples of abuse, it must be proactive in establishing that system. The Agency which oversees the implementation of this entire protection system must therefore play a proactive role. The highlight of this agency's promotion is that her employees left, imagine, it says here in a report in City Center One and set up a booth. And shared promotional materials. So what we really think is that the average Croatian society, i.e. a sufficient number of citizens, is setting in the City Centre of One. Well, let's not brag about that. So let's make it some little pilot, see if we know how to work and communicate with people. It needs to be much more aggressive, it needs to come out much wider and more open. What about the establishment of an Internet portal on which all these kinds of information will be serviced to people. Why should you even call the phone, question certain situations, when you can set up a hundred different situations and answer frequency questions according to a particular form. I would prefer, therefore, that the agency works proactively than to garden in those 5 hundred squares and answer 641 phone calls annually. I hope that people who get paid from the state budget and work in this agency will still get a little teary and realize that 24 of them should have a much greater effect than the one described here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36433	Thank you. And now it's up to the Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk. On behalf of the SDP club, please. I apologize, exactly, before that is the correction, the esteemed representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36434	I'm correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Beus that the agency is giving exclusively ambiguous answers. For example, I was one of those guys who called the agency. And when I asked them if it was in line with the law that JMBG was publicly on the web pages of a minor, not to say a minor daily list which was turned obviously into a party note and has been in place since 1999 and it has not been removed, along with yours, Mr. Vice President, they clearly and answered me, no, it is not in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36435	Thank you. It wasn't a correction. It was a confirmation of the allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36436	No, no, he said that they were unequivocally... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36437	On behalf of the SDP Club, Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36438	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, next time I'm going to congratulate you on your birthday, because what Mr. Franic was saying, I was going to say, on the Vjesnik pages, 15. 12. In 1999, there were published lists of candidates for the 2000 parliamentary elections and included the JMBGs of all candidates from all the lists in all election units in the election. As JMBG has, meanwhile, become secret in one way or another, I think that the agency should, in particular, ask Vjesnik to remove these sites from its websites so that it does not make it available to a large number of people, the more the law has changed since then but the unique number of citizens has remained. But I will return to the unique number of citizens after that. So, in this House of the High, we are discussing reports of a large number of agencies and SDP Clubs in most cases, a large majority of the cases voted in favour of accepting the report from the agencies coming to this Croatian Parliament. However, as far as this agency is concerned, unfortunately we cannot vote to accept this report, we will not support this report because we believe that the agency has not fulfilled its most important purpose, which is to be independent of doing its job. This other may work, perhaps not well but in some way, but in our opinion it is not independent of the influence of politics. I'm going to argument this by enforcing them on the issue of publishing the defence register, that is, part of the defence register because we hold that there are also things in the defence registry that can't be published but that some things can be published and that they have therefore given the opinion that there is no obligation for the government to publish it and after the intervention they said there are no legal assumptions that this is to be published. Therefore, it is crucial evidence that this agency is subject to change of opinion under political pressure and therefore, unfortunately, we cannot support their report and their work. Each of us is probably surprised when he gets a letter from an address he didn't expect, when he's introduced to new products, when in some other ways he's actually informed that someone's taking care of him and that he's not aware of it himself. Most of the time, it's about the stores where you paid with a credit card, but the purpose of paying with a credit card wasn't to get the one you paid for to pick up your name and last name, so that after that, without your consent, it would inform you of the novelties, but I guess it would pay. Also, the purpose of publishing the name, last name and address and phone number in the phone book is not to have someone pick it up and send you a letter again, but rather to have someone call you at that number as soon as you published that number publicly. It is also possible to say that even when you sign petitions you sign a petition for what you signed a petition, not that the one you signed a petition for, if he still took all your other data, then he uses it for a variety of ways. As far as the unique number of citizens is concerned, as an informer, I believe that it should not or should not have been made secret, because it does not essentially contain any relevant personal information other than the date of birth. However, the unique home number of citizens or any other number, including this personal identification number, is the most logical choice for each IT officer for the primary key of any database on anyone and if it is not possible to search something by a unique home number, then it will now be possible according to the OIB, so I keep it in mind that it was not necessary to do so. But now that the law has already been passed, then at the level of those who still need that number, because all their databases work on that number, then they take your birth number, then they replace three four digits, and they actually get one single birth number. That's, who knows a little bit about math, algorithms, that's the same thing. Thus, in a single way, a single number can be based on another number of citizens, and therefore the purpose is not met again. Also, it often happens that when you fill out certain forms you are obliged to leave your unique home number again. Of course, you can, in fact, it's about someone who meets sometimes in favor of leaving their home number, because if you didn't, you'd lose something else that you'd get by filling out that form. But then comes the question of the individual's impotence against some system, because even though the state has made a unique parent number a secret, the fact is that you won't be able to achieve some right unless you bring along a ID card and something where your JMBG writes to convince someone that you are exactly who it is. I therefore believe that there is still much space in the work of this Agency to impose it as an important factor, to be recognised as a partner to citizens in the protection of their personal data, but unfortunately here we hold that with this kind of leadership and this way of action, which is subject to political intervention, this authority will not be acquired. Therefore, waiting for some new people at the head of the Agency with different decisions, we unfortunately cannot support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36439	Thank you. And we're moving on to an individual debate. The first in line is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36440	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Vice President. The agency has 24 employees and in last year the budget of the Agency amounted to 7 million 170 thousand kuna. According to the report, they had 641 calls over the year, it's about 3 calls a day, 155 irregular procedures, which is 0.6 cases a day, 122 thematic calls or objects, so they're roughly named, it's 0.5 a day, 539 surveillance, it's about 2.4 a day and 87 requests for protection of citizens' rights, it's 0.3 a day. Or when I add it all together, it's 9.8 objects a day, all kinds, 9.8 per 24 employees. That's one employee less than two. But it's a constant in the work of this agency, nothing new in this year's report, or the one we've discussed before. However, I was worried about two reports that were incomplete or I don't understand them. The report discusses co-operation with the Ministry of the Interior, on page 10 of the report, which states that cooperation with the MUP was made clear in the legal opinions of the agencies regarding the personal data contained in the MUP databases, and giving them further use. In order to find out later on page 18 that the supervision of the MUP has only been supervised in the data records in the control of the state border, and no word is mentioned, so I conclude that there were no such controls, and these are those relating to the database or the collection of personal data on citizens led by the Croatian police. I remind you that in a law that was in force before and under the new law of the Ministry of Interior, that is, our police are authorized to provide personal information about the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and abroad. I would be interested in whether, from now on, the agency has ever made an insight into what data is, how much data and why the Croatian police delivered abroad. Furthermore, according to the laws in force, the police are obliged to delete any incorrect personal data they have collected. Did the agency check and record that there was at least one single erasure of incorrect data collected by the police? Furthermore, I recall that under the laws it is prescribed that personal data in police records are deleted within five years, some ten, some kept permanently. Thus, it is envisaged to keep data on the operational knowledge and sources of that knowledge permanently. So I'm wondering if maybe the agency has been able to control the operational records. Isn't there personal data in there that's been erased after five or ten years? There's more. The person whose data is contained in the collection shall have, in accordance with the specific law, the right to see the part of the collection of which the notice has been sent to the authority responsible for the protection of personal data. This difficult line means approximately that the citizen has the right to make an account of the personal data records conducted by the police and of which the notice has been carried out by the competent personal data protection authority. It's this agency if I'm not mistaken. I'm very interested in how it works. If the police are not your agency, and during the surveillance, you have determined that the Ministry of the Interior is in charge, but that they have not also provided records of operational personal data collections in the central register in accordance with Article 46(1) of the Law. Is that possible? Is there... that some citizen was looking for an insight into a personal data collection in the police without getting it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Has anyone asked for your intervention on this? Does the police provide you with a database that leads to citizens? There's not a lot of questions related to data collected by the police. And in the report, at least. I don't want to talk about the credit card malls that have other than that payment and the card to find out our people's shopping habits. And a chapter of health care. To illustrate what this is about or why I'm worried I have to quote the following. A number of health institutions have not established and provided records of personal data collections. And on and on. During surveillance, it has been established that personal data are processed and stored in electronic format, but that most lack written instructions and rules for the implementation of personal data protection security measures. Some medical institutions lack a fire alert device according to the regulations, backups of data are not stored in the safety deposit box, are not prepared for... The agency's given a six-month deadline. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because after six months, did you exercise control of the agency's orders? There's not a word about it. So, when you give the report, you've given some health care facilities to some medical institutions something's not right, okay, that you found it and you've given a deadline to remove it. Then tell me if it's removed or not, or if the situation is the same now. Health data, data on the health of citizens to me are just as important, more valuable to the possibility of abuse as those being guarded by the police. And right in that sector, we should increase the number of surveillance but also change the way we report it. So long as you do not specifically appoint, and in particular do not apostrophe those who do not comply with your actions, no one will respect you in this country, as your citizens do not respect you. Because only 87 of them reported for intervention in something. I think you exist primarily for the sake of the citizens. In order to gain their trust, then you must be the ones who, by your last name, will call upon all those who do not obey the laws, to bring them to the pillar of shame in this House. This is how you will leave yourself the opportunity to establish 529 or 539 administrative supervision year after year, by covering the problems that exist and reporting to the Assembly on the matter. You've given the deadline and the point. They failed the exam. You sent them, you gave them a guidebook. Did they come to the correctional? Did they pass the correctional exam or did they fail again? In every case, in any more serious problem, you have to act like one. Then the citizens will trust you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36441	Thank you. It is up to Commissioner Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36442	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. When the Personal Data Protection Act was passed, it is now over 5 years old. The basis of the law also established the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. The citizens welcomed it with impatience, for in the attacks of their privacy they felt that this agency guaranteed them and protected their privacy from all power capital above all, and also from the state and individual individuals within such a system to attack or protect their privacy from such faceless and illegal attacks. That was on one side. On the other hand, the public's expectations about this, but also all other laws, were that the transparency of spending public funds, so everything that belongs to all citizens is being met as much as possible. Since then, however, we have essentially the opposite of one process here, that often what is private and must remain so and protected despite numerous conventions and the law and the agency become public. And what's public and what needs to be open and sub-strategic to the public is often covered by the veil of mysticism and becomes secretive. As Croatia as a state, we have a general problem with this. This agency must, above all, determine what information is public, which is personal, under the Personal Data Protection Act. On that trail, everything that represents a fiscous is equal to and when that part of state money is shared from the budget, to natural or legal persons cannot be a secret. And on that exam, this agency fell, and there's no trust in the public. I would agree with what my predecessors said, my colleague Bauk, my colleague Lesar. And then it can't work, one institution can't act successfully if it doesn't trust the public. Especially when it was originally established to protect the public in some of their very important segments of life. This trust is gained by its work, but right here the question is, how dependent is the agency, or independent of politics. It was this addiction in some dramatic situations and insubordination to the ruling ones that had just broken the trust that was to be raised. We cannot do so from what has already been mentioned here, from the fact that the Defence Registry represents a secret, or that it has to be protected as personal data. And this is the fact that a different opinion has been given before, and when it has been heard that the rulings do not intend to give it to the public, despite their demand, it is then going, changing its mind and going on to cover the expectations of the ruling ones. That's not how trust is gained. If that had been different, of course the expectations of the public and that you would have worked easier and then this report wouldn't have looked like this. It kills and it can't be different. So, we have a general problem with this and it needs to change something, but it's not just the agency's mission, to be objective, which is personal data, I repeat, anyone who gets funds from the budget in any way, whether it's concessions, whether it's participating and he's got public procurement jobs, whether he gets certain donations by any kind of, of course, the basis of the law or contract concluded under the law, it's not personal data. Personal data are business and when it comes to this problem between two natural or legal persons. But when you do business with the state, when you get funds from that state, it can't be personal information, ma'am, and it has to be clear to you. If that's not clear, then what else? What's all the rest of it for? Everything else is pointless because it's the best way to see in front of the public how the funds that belong to everyone are spent. Croatia has a general problem with this. So, anything else, when this basic is not yet mastered, when it has not been mastered by the agency or anyone else, that is, when it is disputed in the rulings, it is in some ways a bit of misery under the pressure of Europe, in some ways, it is headed by this transparency, but in practice it is definitely puking, we have problems with it, and the agency instead of correcting these injustices, and the wrong ways, it is covering these things. So here I am on this lead, and that is why I will not support this report on the work of the Personal Data Protection Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36443	Thank you. And distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36444	Thank you very much, dear vice president and representative of the agency. Well, according to this 2008 report, I believe the agency was too self-secure in its activity. Self-disclosure is actually a virtue, but in the case of this agency, I don't think it's very recommended. I would like to say that for the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data and Their Activity, it would be better to hear more in public, especially in terms of the activities involved in submitting indictment proposals to all those who violate the Personal Data Protection Act. As far as the 2008 indictments are concerned, the agency was too modest, too stingy to say so. Such an attitude did not send a clear message to those who do not respect the privacy of persons as well as the Personal Data Protection Act. The right to the protection of personal data is one of the fundamental rights of every human being, but unfortunately for this particular personal data, it is the deepest intimacy that lasts the hunting season uninterrupted. Especially if that person is involved in public work. Individuals... over other people's privacy to publish some information that would discredit a person or get information about the need for blackmail. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Public workers, whether they are persons with estherade, from sports, from political life are constantly under increased circumstances not only faced with the possibility of publishing data that should be protected, but also with all possible ways in which someone might interpret or manipulate such data. The biggest privacy hunters are the media and I am surprised that the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, citing sectors in which it has managed to monitor the list there is no media sector. At the meetings of the Assembly Committee on Information, Information and Media, we discussed more frequently the breach of privacy by the media than is stated in the report of this Personal Data Protection Agency, and I will not guess the reason. It's enough to open some websites and you can get all kinds of information and misinformation about yourself without mentioning any journalistic watches. When we talk about protecting the personal data of banks or card houses, these are examples I think of myself as making the information better and not mentioning it. The state sector and the telecommunications sector are certainly a story to themselves, and in these sectors there is the most incurring privacy for a variety of reasons. Well, we had this fresh example of a telecom that was listening to its employees to find out who and what channels it was with some potential business secrets, and the eavesdropping actually turned into an envious collection of the most intimate materials on which every Big Brother would envy, and eventually they made one media sweeter. I've been a victim of listening, e-mailing, faxing, and occasional tracking, almost five years since '94. Until '99. In October, the code name of the action was "Vaga" no longer a secret, since I'm entitled to see these materials. When I read what those operatives were following me, following me, listening, listening, I don't know what they weren't doing behind my back. About me, I collected important information. When I read that, I realized all the stupidity of that system and what government money was spent on, but then there was no Personal Data Protection Agency. I therefore consider it important that the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data should be more frequently present in the media and available to the public. First, to send and send a clear message to those who do not respect the Personal Data Protection Act, what will happen to them by the letter of the law if the law is not respected. Whether these are media houses, whether state institutions, banks, businesses, hosts, etc. Secondly, that more often and that is never enough, introduces citizens to all the dangers that lurk through manipulation of personal data, identity theft, opening or creating a fake profile, people with websites. And thirdly, the agency must publicly state the names of all entities. There is no reason for the agency to hide names, i.e. it hides names or represents only names for some entities that have violated the Personal Data Protection Act, and it does not provide transparent public data to all entities that violate this Personal Data Protection Act. I think it can be seen from the report, that unfortunately these data have been reported in part. I don't see any reason why he'd keep someone a secret. The one who breaks the law, why keep it secret. He needs to be publicly called and shown that it's him and those subjects. So I'd like to ask you for this report that will be working next year for this year, so that all the entities who have violated the law are transparently listed. There's no reason for you as an agency to protect them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36445	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. Dear Vilena Gasparović, deputy director of the agency. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36446	Thank you for the discussion. And in conclusion, I'd like to say a few words. It should be noted that the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data is a very young institution. That in her work she had no one to learn from, to cover the area, the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, that she had no large budget, no space, no too many employees, which was constantly objected here. This area that has also been discussed with employees, the institution must also have a follow-up service and have a professional service. So lawyers who do surveillance work, but must also have an office, must have an archive. And besides, the space we're in, that I don't explain it now, is in an old building that has hallways. So these offices are very modest. I'm calling anyone who wants to come to the agency to see what conditions we're working on. As for the agency's promotion, we're doing everything we can. But it's all about material costs. From printing brochures, from organising conferences, seminars, we try to do so in cooperation with others to save and have as little cost as possible. So our promotion is about material assets. But I have to say, it's a long-term process. It cannot be achieved immediately, because the protection of personal data, which I always say is the Law on the Protection of Personal Data and Personal Data, is one link or one segment, or I would say a new legal area that is just developing. And we need to know that information communication technologies are progressing so quickly that they are legally regulated, neither European nor ours can catch up. So we're making efforts to do everything we can to protect the citizens. And in that sense, we try to work systematically on education. There was an observation about how we're in the City Center sharing flyers. Well, we marked the European Day of Personal Data Protection. We've been participants for three years that day. So we represent the public protection of personal data, so the law, their rights and the institution. And in that sense, we will continue our work. We'll work on the education of citizens, so we'll work on all those legal entities that break the laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36447	Thank you. Before the debate is concluded, the agencies report once a year to the Parliament and it is the turn to be present here as the director or head of the agency. We accept that the deputy will come, and the assistant will come. But first of all, it's time for the report to be signed and to defend the report before the board of directors of the agency. So much for sending deputies and once a year they won't come before the Parliament. It's not a good habit or a good message. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36448	A report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data for 2008 in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data for 2008 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. Score. With 77 votes for, 1 abstention, 36 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36449	We're going to the 7th item of the agenda. - Work report for 2008 of the National Science Council of the Republic of Croatia, Proposer: The National Science Council of the National Science Council submitted this report on the basis of Article 13. Law on scientific activity and higher education. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Krešimir Pavelic, president of the National Council for Science. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36450	Dear and esteemed Mr. Chairman, the esteemed and esteemed ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. I would just like to say that the main objectives of the work of the council as well as the scientific and technological strategies are always and every year the same are, above all, research and development on the principle of excellence, compliance with European liquids, scientific research and harmonisation of our system with European and American systems, so the best systems that exist today, efficiency and re-establishment of the scientific system and the promotion of partnership. The report's pretty exhausted. There were also comments that it may have been fact-finding, that there should be more referenced strategies in it, but I would say the strategy actually means how to implement the objectives and, by practically this year, the reports or the work of the National Council were based on many things that are no longer in the National Council's control today are already science agencies, so there will certainly be more time for strategic discussions, I think that is our main objective. I would say that an initiative has been launched to change the structure of funding scientific research and to move from funding from the Ministry of Science to the National Foundation for Science and I can be very pleased to say that this process is over this year and that this system is now very similar to how it works in the world. A debate has been completed on the new system of funding scientific recruits and research projects, and I would say that the system for which Croatia has been a rather interesting country and which has yielded certain results has come to a bit of a crisis. We have identified exactly what money problems have been and have given concrete solutions that I hope the ministry accepts, and from next year I hope so. I would, however, mention in this place that the novice system has recently been quite inefficient not because the money is such but because they are burdened with teaching, which they sometimes do not have good mentors etc., so I would like to make one even doctoral dissertation on that topic by which we based this proposal on the restructuring of the recruiting system. And I'd say there's a big difference within the individual areas of the recruits' action. In the area of social, humanistic and technical sciences, the data shows that money was unproductive, but it was doctored in time. In the field of biomedicine productive but not doctorate, the system takes them over. In the field of natural sciences, productive doctorate and are relatively long employed. In biotechnology, average. Already these data show that the efficiency of the recruit is one-third, in other words that means one-third of the recruits get a doctorate, a third is permanently employed in the ministry's system and a third is productive during their employment. The state spends more than 300 million kuna on recruits, or 500 when all costs are taken. It's big money and we've made concrete suggestions on how to fix this system and rule out recruits from below, so don't overload them with teaching, allow them to do scientific research but also give them some obligations to shorten the recruiting internship, etc. I don't want to talk about it anymore. We also adopted a national technology initiative, proposed a new system of financing capital scientific equipment. We see great problems in this, the unusability of scientific equipment in Croatia. So we have some concrete solutions that we've proposed to the ministry. Work continues to evaluate the quality and efficiency of scientific professional organisations. I must say that we have deleted from the register of scientific institutions several such institutions even one public institute and this process continues, so we are introducing an international evaluation review. In this year we started the process of restructuring public institutes and what we would like to do is see how productive our institutes are in terms of, therefore, effective compared to the institutions outside. So, do an analysis of both economic and professional science to see if we are de facto paying more than we are paying in a world less or those are studies that are currently going to Europe, and I think this year we're going to go with a new system, a new structure of these institutes. There's a problem, namely that we should do it in the higher education system. There is another National Council that I hope will no longer be overworked, it is the National Council for Higher Education, overloaded with studies and with the approval of studies, and it will also be able to entertain these strategic issues. Something we were working on and a rule on scientific and artistic areas that we talked about last year. I'm personally dissatisfied with that rule. We'll try to cut it off. We will also consult our colleagues from the Committee of the Assembly but what I am pleased that we have managed to adopt the division of scientific areas and fields according to the Frascati classification which is valid in Europe and so Croatia can now combine statistical data with European what it has not yet been able to do. We wanted to implement this system in both areas and fields, but it was a great resistance from the academic community. We have also initiated the adoption of an international classification of education that will also work from this year on, and that is one of the European criteria that we must have. And we have launched a debate about the formation of national institutes. So, the institute that we should have so-called. National tasks. I'd like to stop here now, I'd just like to say in the end that there are a lot of initiatives in 2009 that we've already started, I'd say we're continuing and we're finishing the process of restructuring public institutes, a new one, we're bringing new criteria for calling, and I think it's very important that the criteria of calling are strengthened in all areas, especially in the socially humanist community where it's my assessment and by some... Croatia's indicators do not look good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I think that we need to introduce international, where possible, international evaluation criteria and those areas. I note, where you can, therefore, in those areas where possible. We will define priority research, which does not mean that the rest will not be financed, the rest will be financed by the criterion of excellence, we will find new instruments of science funding. I am very pleased that we managed to define some new financial instruments and in this, last year, these are, above all, along with the foundation for science, so on. the establishment of support, therefore, as one financial instrument for achieving certain objectives of national scientific policy. It is a system that is complimentary to the European system, it was initiated in the EMBO organization and the idea is to give support to young researchers up to 35 years of age who at their post-doctoral stage already show international visibility. The establishment support enables these young researchers to go into independent research and aid tenders are being opened this year, worth 50,000 euros annually for three to five years. We also set up founding aids designed to provide sufficient resources for a scientist to launch an independent research group and support excellence given to quality scientists, noting that choice must be competitive. I stress here that we have a problem with organisations or institutions that should provide these young people with working conditions. Often full of them deny signatures. And people can't, and young people can't misapply for such projects. So the institution doesn't want to give them space. We've had cases like this. At the end of these new activities, I would also mention how in fact the scientific system would do such a thing to help get out of the crisis. Personally, and I think that attitude is far beyond our borders that a way out of the crisis can make science the most effective,... science rather than science applicative, quality science and I think it would be very good, I will devote one of the next sessions exclusively to thematic solutions which, in fact, the National Council and, of course, the Ministry of Science could contribute to making it easier to come out of the crisis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in other words, those projects that can quickly deliver results and, of course, also certain high-tech products are found. In the end, I see one, a few big problems without which we will not be able to fully edit the system of science. And that needs to be dealt with legally. The choice of leaders on scientific institutions is a problem that is persistent in Croatia, which is still only administrative and I don't know if it exists in a country in the world. If we don't solve this problem, we won't even be able to fix the system of science to the end, so the way we choose a leader. The other problem is the problem of the troupe in the institutions. The problem, therefore, is that the institution is managed by practically three bodies. The Scientific Council, the Administrative Council and the Director. It's a big problem especially for large institutions. And finally, the problem that we have repeatedly pointed to is unfortunately not solved, and that is among other things a separate system of advancement, therefore, choice from calling from a job. I don't know any country that has such a system. Here, I would finally, Mr. Chairman, say that I am looking at this whole system of science optimisticly, and I think that these problems will be able to be solved with the new Science Act that is being prepared, which I hope, I agree with my colleagues in the Assembly Committee, must be principled, brief and simple. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36451	Thank you very much. Does the government want a representative? He's gone. He's on the board. Okay. Does the representative, or the committee reporter, want it? Yeah. Dear fellow Representative Selem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36452	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the National Council, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the work of the National Council for the Science of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 as a parent working body. The opening statement was submitted by a representative of the motions and the Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion to the President of the Croatian Committee on 19 June proposing that the Croatian Parliament accept the report on the work of the National Council for Science. The National Science Council is the highest body, as you know, clearly concerned with the development and quality of the entire scientific activity in the Republic of Croatia. In addition to the operational, the Council has a strategic task of discussing and identifying views on matters of importance for the field of science. In 2008, the National Council for Science continued its work on the evaluation, quality and effectiveness of scientific and professional work of the scientific organisations of the institutes and others. And that's the requirements for issuing licenses to carry out scientific activities in other organizations in the first row of colleges. A debate on a new system of funding for scientific recruits has been continued. And scientific research projects, Mr. President of the Council said something about it. These other adjustments were given a normative legal form by the adoption of new regulations. And this rule on scientific, artistic areas according to certain branches and rules on the evaluation of scientific organisations. The debate discussed the matter of the report in light of the general situation and the movement of scientific research activities in Croatia in relation to the best European achievements. There is an observation that the report may have given greater attention to the work of the National Council on strategic science issues in Croatia, and less space perhaps to review the resolution of individual issues. That's what Mr. President said. The report gives particular importance to the views in the debate in the bodies of the National Council and in cooperation with other entities interested in the level of scientific and research activity in Croatia, according to which national priorities need to be identified and financed by sufficient resources. From there, the question is also whether more ambitious strategies for development of scientific and research activities can be implemented without a better source of funding. And there were some steps that Mr. President of the Council also spoke of. The share of these funds is clearly, with total budgetary resources and with regard to the national product is less felt than the needs require. The issue of the scope and methods of funding researchers and institutions outside project spenders has also been discussed. Discussing the identification of scientific and research priorities has voiced confidence that these tasks should be to the greatest extent possible an expression of excellence already achieved. Among the structural issues, one of the most interesting prevailed was the debate on scientific money. The report and the debate also agreed that the level of existing staff is insufficient. Only a third of the scientific recruits, you've also heard, have reached the stage of the doctor of science. The problem is also the introduction of a teaching obligation for recruits that raises a number of questions and concerns whether it is too much burden for recruits, and also the question of whether money must necessarily be linked not only to the project, but also to a particular scientific or teaching institution, a university institution. The report sparked a debate on the state of equipment, the equipment of the institute, which found not only that the funds were insufficient and inadequately deployed, but also that there was little cooperation between institutions in the use of scientific and research equipment. One of the preconditions of scientific and research work on which the report has not been fully demonstrated are scientific journals and overall publishing activities. The assessment of the debate is that this area is generally neglected. The report also shows the different outcomes of quality evaluation and effectiveness of the work of scientific organisations and institutes and the assessment of the state of scientific and research work in non-rescribed institutions in the scientific organisation, and it is mainly about universities. The hearing requested an explanation of the representatives of the report, since the report was not submitted to the analysis of the difference. When it comes to regulation of scientific and research areas... the branch, there has been an expression of the position at which this document is constantly lagging behind changes in science and professions, as well as in view of interdisciplinary ties. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The applicant shall also agree with this finding. The National Council for Science called for stronger co-operation with the National Council for Higher Education in the Law established tasks, such as setting criteria for funding research work. After the debate was held, the Committee concluded, by a majority of votes, 5 for, 3 against, 1 abstention: "The Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to accept the report on the work of the National Science Council of the Republic of Croatia for 2008. a year."
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36453	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Iron Flego. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36454	Mr. Chairman, Mr. President of the National Council, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. First, I would also like to thank Mr President, so both the National Council and the chairman of the Assembly Committee on exhaustive reports and presentations and what is in the report of the National Council and what we discussed on the board. But in short, first of all, three groups are basically reasons why the National Science Council's report to the SDP is not acceptable. On the one hand, it is about unfulfilled legal obligations that the National Council has and has not carried out. On the other hand, it's about a lot of techniques, but in our court or too little strategic steps, and where they're started, they care half way. And on the third hand or third group of reasons is an unmoved or unchanged personnel structure by the management of science that we have repeatedly warned about. As far as the first groups of reasons are concerned, the national councils are not together or in the report i.e. It is not visible, they gave, and therefore I assume it is visible that they have not, for example, considered neither the budget nor the budget rebalancing, and they have a legal obligation. They did not consider or propose changes in the vacuum area i.e. in the area we discussed in this House on two occasions, on several occasions on the committee i.e. The Ethics Committee. It is mentioned that the National Council met once, but it is not present to us what they discussed or what they did. And as the chairman of the committee pointed out, there is a need for the National Council to meet more frequently, so they have a minimum legal obligation to meet once a year, and these are bodies that should work closely, because on the one hand, it is very difficult to carry out science that is done mostly at the university, while not taking into account higher education and, on the other hand, to separate higher education from science on which only higher education is based. That's one thing. Secondly, there seems to be a lot of technical, and too little strategic action, and I'm going to give a few examples that we're pushing for to be far more present and significantly more intense than what's up to now, regardless of why we don't even think about denying some steps and some attempts that seem to be talking to ourselves. The evaluation of the institute, so the abolition of some organisations of the status of the research institute, finally one serious concern about scientific money, but on the other hand we disagree with the concept that, let's say, scientific money and scholarships are even. We think it'll lead to confusion, so that's where there's a much greater differentiation than it's ever been. We have a third problem in which scientific money for the economy will be articulated, because they are scientific money with the intention of learning and perfecting, and only later to go towards something called applied science, that is, some kind of technology business and so on, but it seems to us that we also need to take much more care of mentors or inadequate mentors, which so far may be too neglected. In the technology initiative, we think it is a very good step, although this technological initiative is covered by some government documents, which unfortunately do not apply, but on the other hand, the technological initiative should do the same thing with money. It is necessary to analyse the existing situation and to identify in which areas and in which projects are positive, and in which areas and which projects are negative, either completely or partly failed, or it is actually about that for science and technology, if we can say a total of one billion kuna per year. About the centers... which since 2003 legal obligations have only just begun to be debated, and it seems to us that they are a very significant locomotive in scientific research activities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Exclusion from very important, so the publicist activities were in the form of scientific books, whether in the form of scientific journals, so it was already warned, and it was also warned of insufficient resources and difficulties with the state budget. But there is an initiative by the National Science Council that, therefore, the overall scientific research activity is reduced to four national priorities and we do not agree with that, we think that the priorities of the state should be in those areas where we have shown the best results so far. Differently speaking right in the areas of the centres of excellence, because it will be centres where, if you invest what might make a move of a thousand, if you invest in average centres what will make the move of the table, if you invest in the same average center 100 will make a shift of 15 or 20 so picturesquely speaking. So it seems to us that the centres of excellence, or the areas in which we have so far had the most noticeable, internationally most noticeable results, are those that should be a state priority. As far as the restructuring of science is concerned, we welcome very much, and we did it ourselves in 2002 and 2003, but we care about it halfway there. We think that the restructuring of science in Croatia should be done from several starting lines, so from several target lines, but it is one of the main that scientific institutes, which are now 27 or 28 in a country of 4 and a half million, are not full of 4 and a half million inhabitants, wherever possible, public scientific institutes are reintegration into universities. That's more like '93. years were ripped from the university, so as university institutions or university institutes, they became a public institute. Back to university, the university gets new personnel, new spaces, new equipment. For all these universities cry out, and public institutes get a completely different framework and actually open up the possibility of direct synergic activity with the remains of the university. So the benefit is multiple and we just don't know why it didn't go on with that job so where we stopped in 2003. The scientific projects remain on a whole range of projects, much more social assistance than serious scientific projects, and we expect from the National Council that in the course of the discussion of competitions for new scientific projects, the creation of appropriate impact or strategic directions for development of science and technology so that the foundation would not actually enter into a fully arbitration relationship, since the foundation will finance a good part of scientific projects, so we expect the National Council for Science as a strategic body to determine these strategic directions of science development in one medium term, and it might not be bad to consult with both the scientific and academic community, but also with the same body that would be responsible, i.e. with the legislator. Similarly, we believe that there is much more to be seen in this regard than was done in the legislative regulation, which we also warned about, the relationship between so-called. project sciences and so on. Institute or institutional sciences. It is foreseen that project sciences are financed by the National Foundation for Science and Higher Education and Technology, and that institutional sciences, etc. Institute sciences are funded by the ministry. So the relationship between the foundation and the ministry should be resolved and it seems to us that the national foundation would be an excellent intermediate body that would contribute to that resolution. Unlike the National Foundation, forgive the National Council for Science, we believe that the transfer of project financing and project financing concept to the National Foundation for Science and Higher Education and Technology is not complete. This process will be completed only during the second or third year of the Foundation's operation, because there will certainly be a whole series of disagreements, a whole series of misunderstandings, and perhaps conflict situations and conflicts of interest, as has been the case so far when deciding on scientific research projects in the hope that one part of them will be avoided at the moment when the National Science Council articulates those strategic steps that Croatia's science should in the future make it as close to European science or world science even better in their best practices. It seems to us that in some of the elements of the report, the National Science Council has laid down premises, and it has not drawn conclusions, and in two, three times it has been too critical. It certainly should have been criticised not only for this year's budget, but for the last six years when funding and science in general, but especially for the financing of the National Science Foundation, as the National Science Foundation spent more or less on the money invested in it during 2001-2003. So for 6 years, unlike this 3 years when 120 and, say, 5 million were invested, a million 870 kunas from the state budget were invested in 6 years, and that is absolutely insufficient, i.e. The National Foundation for Science is funded by the foundations of the funds accumulated, so to the previous and previous ones, or as it is said to the coalition government. So this government didn't prove to be funding. This and the previous, therefore more or less one and the same government has not shown itself, and here I think, when we honestly say that it should have been critical and equally it should have been critical that a strategic institution within the government that is called a very characteristic abbreviations has never actually worked. So you know everything and you know it equally regardless of the various attempts of the National Science Council to encourage this institution to work. This has failed, and the National Council for Science and this government, therefore the institution which is the prime minister himself, would now have a lot to do together and work on the welfare of science not only because of science itself but because of everything science does well in society. So here's what we find controversial, and we also show it as a criticism of the work we've done in the report. But as well as the proposal to devote more into the future account. And finally, there's this pain that I like to call a clienteleist-corruption centre that's been developing around the ministry and the minister. I'll tell you, I'll repeat it three times from this pay phone, and I hope something changes with the new staff solution, so we'll see what happens. I remind you of colleagues and colleagues, there is a legal obligation to manage science in Croatia equally legally or equally loyally 6 scientific and 2 artistic areas. Science is managed by one scientific area. So four people are from this scientific area. And secondly, three-quarters of the people who run science in Croatia are from one of the only higher schools, and that seems simply inadmissible to us, and we think it should be changed. In the last year, nothing has changed and should hope for change, Mr. President. Of course it's your business, too. But I think what's on our mind is also in our language. We warn and ask that these critical remarks be taken seriously. Therefore, regardless of certain steps, we will not vote in favour of this report. But still forgive the National Foundation for Science and Activity the National Council for the Science and Activity that this Council covers, we want a lot of success because of everything we expect from this activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36455	On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, distinguished counterpart Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36456	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear professor, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The development rate of any society depends mostly on the relationship of the same society to science. It also depends on how much society invests in science, but also how much it invests in creating a positive environment for the scientific work of institutions and individuals. It is known that the success of the investment between the other measure and the rate of return to the invested. It is undeniable that investment in production can bring profit in the best cases up to 10%, that investment in construction can bring even higher profit rates if we rule out this present time. That investment in securities and shares can lead to sudden and richness, but also to sudden poverty and incredible losses. If the State invests in the longer term the safest but not the most profitable investment in infrastructure. However, from a state and national aspect and general interest in the long term and most profitable, but also the safest investment is an investment in science. With investment in science, cases from previous times cannot happen, for example Obrovac TV production seems to me in Slunj, dozens of textile drives, bankruptcys, the collapse of factories throughout Croatia. Investment in science results in safe and progressive social progress. Investment in science is changing in a positive direction all the structures of society. It changes the appearance of society as a whole. The Republic of Croatia recognized and started to change, as it lasted too long in past times when science in our fields was referred to in a way that science did not deserve it. Fortunately, the times of recent years have been rapidly changed. They are created and conditions are created by stimulating science and scientific institutions, but also by scientists as individuals. A colleague, Flego, said here that the government has been investing less in science in recent years, scientific research. But here, I would take advantage of the occasion and just say that by comparing the last six years of investment in scientific research, it has grown into institutes and projects, it has increased 35% from 686 million to 926 million a year. In the same period comparing the last six years, 75% have increased investment in technology from 181 million to 317 million kuna. Investment in higher education has increased as much as 87%. 1.4 billion kuna was six years ago, and last year little more than 2 billion and 300 million kuna. Such an environment has already given and will give positive results. For example, in 1979 there were 2444 doctors in Croatia. In 1990, cca 6000, and today 9334 today. And while in many scientific fields a step is seen, and scientific achievements are aimed at the well-being of general progress and man is perceived to have fallen standards of socio-humanist sciences. And among them is particularly prominent with the fall of standards economic science. In view of this current global financial crisis, which has brought the whole world back far back, but also previous global crises, it shows that economic science, through its practical application every few decades, has cyclically distanced itself from their basic mission, from the general interests and the interests of man as an individual. And the consequences and damages of such economic practices are not only financial that are measurable but also social and social that are immeasurable. But it has a negative impact on every human activity. It is regrettable to find that economic science is also globally but also domestically downgraded to a social responsibility test. I may be a little more critical, but in economic practice, economic science has earned an unsatisfactory grade. It is indisputable that in economic science he has scheduled a system of values. The global financial crisis confirms that. But whatever it is, we can get out of the crisis and beat it only by science, but by developmental and applicative. All the elites of society need to be integrated. Politics and science need to be harmonised. We will not leave the crisis with popular science, popular politics and methods that suggest populist economists. The emphasis should be on applied science because Einstein said, just to know that it is when everything is known and nothing works. So, an emphasis on science that is applicable. The National Science Council of the Republic of Croatia as the highest expert body to care for the development and quality of scientific activities and systems of science has had various activities. It discussed important issues for scientific activities, proposed and encouraged measures to improve science, supervised the quality of scientific organisations, appointed scientific and artistic councils and parent committees for individual fields, established the conditions for acquiring scientific titles, proposed declaring scientific centres of excellence and their evaluations, gave an opinion on the establishment of scientific and technological parks, etc. In the expert section, the National Council for Science has contributed greatly to the Agency for Science and Higher Education and in professional and administrative affairs. But what I would like to point out from the report as a very large activity and effectiveness of the National Science Council is that the debate on the principles of reform of the system of funding scientific recruits and scientific projects and, to that end, even in June last year, a workshop was organized on... on the new way of funding scientific recruits and scientific projects, and all in the organisation of the Science Agency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In January and February last year, the National Science Council launched a process to evaluate the quality and effectiveness of scientific and professional work of 13 scientific organisations enrolled in the register of scientific organisations. And as part of its activities in May last year, the National Science Council held its first session outside of Zagreb in Split as a joint session with the Senate of the University where important, current scientific problems were discussed. So for the first time it turned out that they recognized the moment and the topic was one of the agenda forms of university action for the purpose of encouraging cooperation with the economy. That's what today's time needs most. It also discussed the preparation for the evaluation of scientific institutions and technology parks and incubators in the Republic of Croatia. During 2008, the National Council for Science launched a debate on the formation of scientific centres of excellence and expressed the view that there must be clear criteria for declaring a scientific centre of excellence with a defined objective, defined product, informing up to a maximum of 10 centres. The National Council for Science worked in 2008 truly impeccable and, as I have already said, it played a pretty good role and the Agency for Science and Higher Education, in particular its Department of Science. The HDZ Club report is highly professional at the highest level and the HDZ club will certainly support it. And many say that, and here you can see by the figures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia sets out in science that knowledge is quite expensive. That is true, but ignorance is even more expensive, and the famous Bacon depicted the role of knowledge in society when he said: "Scientia est potentia". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36457	Thank you very much. We have a report of correction of the alleged, distinguished colleague of the Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36458	Dear Maric, I ask you to forgive my rudeness by raising the plate correcting the incorrect quote that makes it impossible for you to answer me, but there is no other way than to tell you. I'm much more of a dialogue person, but it's a business practice. On the one hand, it seems incorrect to me that investment in science has grown because it only grew relatively since 28.11.2002 is agreed if we want to enter serious reforms, the budget must grow at least 10% per year for science and higher education, which by 2010 would lead Croatia to the European Union level from 2002, and the budget would increase 100% in those 8 years, not 30 and something that grew for science. And so that's it, then I won't go any further. So it seems to me that you need to take that data relatively, so it's much less than that disidentifier we've written down. And secondly, within the last 3 years, the GDP has been falling seriously to invest in science. We were at 1.2% now we're below 0.9. ... He's incorrect given the context. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36459	Thank you very much. I will now announce my break by 3:00, and then we will continue the debate and it will be on behalf of the HNS club, dear colleague Miljenko Doric. Thank you very much. I suggest we get back to work. And as I said, it's on behalf of the HNS Club, dear colleague Miljenko Doric. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36461	Let me repeat, Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the National Council of Science, colleagues and colleagues. Now here I've got microphones, and I might have talked about this subject in a very different way, trying no matter what the benches are empty as they usually are when it's about science, the impact of science and education on development projects and programs in this country, but here I'm going to try again. I agree, Professor Pavelic, with most of what you said in your opening oral presentation. However, with this paper edition of the report, I must say, I am not satisfied. In fact, the report can't be its own purpose, science can't be its own purpose, and I'm sad when scientists, let anyone, under any circumstances, force them to behave within some sort of stalking political pattern, and that's what's happening right now in this case. Let's get this straight. Namely, I think that colleague Maric, who is not here right now, has brilliantly started his presentation, stated exactly what are the ratios with which to return investment to some primary, secondary activity or science, is the light motive of what my colleagues and colleagues should discuss here today. Life, the quality of life in countries on this small planet is directly related to the education of citizens and to investments in science and technological development. There are very few exceptions, these are countries that have certain resources, oil gas, but when these resources are exhausted one day and they're going to be back on track, some kind of strength ratio about what we're talking about right now. I would like to say that we may even live in Croatia above our possibilities and that is why we will pay for the next few years. I was in the Netherlands two months ago and there was a discussion at the University of Twentey about a similar subject as we are talking about today, and I will never forget what my colleagues at that university told us at that time. In fact, 40 years ago, they celebrated. You know what? At that time 40 years ago, there was a breakdown of their textile industry under pressure from cheap labour in the Far East and it was a question of what with thousands and thousands of people who had lost their jobs. And that university was tasked with studying the personnel structure of those who had lost their jobs, their knowledge, the possibility of being overqualified, which are requalifications, which are the markets they could and with which product they could clearly move. And I have to say, they've done their job brilliantly and thousands and thousands of people have been employed within two years. Based on their recommendations and very well-developed policies, i.e. strategies. Look, in this report, I'm going to read you or one of the first parts, a very significant part for me at least. It says this: "The work of the National Council for Science took place in accordance with the strategic document, scientific and technological policy of the Republic of Croatia from 2006 to 2010. A year.". So, colleagues and colleagues, this is a document we call upon regarding this report. We're at the end of that period, at the end. And it would be good to do, as counterpart Maric said, an analysis of the impact of our science on technology policy, on the development policy of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the main objectives of the work of the council as well as the strategy itself are greater efficiency, the promotion of the research partnership, the strengthening of the support system for quality young researchers, the strong integration of science and the economy. It also reads about it later in the text, in the report of not a single word. That's why my question to the president of the National Council of Science or the questions we discussed at the HNS Club would be next. What are the economic branches with which science has strongly linked over the past four years in line with this strategy, which have been caused by this merger, which are new products, how much their competitiveness has increased, how much employment has increased, how much exports of these quality products have been so strongly linked to our science in line with the strategy you are calling for. How many young people have received the support they are, the results of the support you call upon here. Furthermore, I'm interested in your position on that famous triangle between politics, scientific teaching institutions and the economy. It's a famous triangle that needs to be dealt with in one organised state, coordinated everything. Are you the President of the National Council satisfied with the coordination of these peaks of these triangles or were there not enough and adequate meetings in an attempt to achieve a better cooperation. It's still on page 6, about what I've just said, that institutes and universities will bring a clear scientific mission, they need to bring a clear scientific mission, which means, I don't know exactly, who should bring this mission to the university, to when it needs to be brought and what are the objectives of that mission. The need continues, and three to four national priorities for science need to be adopted. Which areas of science were discussed, whether it's agriculture, whether it's transport, whether it's shipbuilding, what it's talked about, what it's going to be, three, four national priorities, which is crucial, we'll all support it if we recognize it as a locomotive that will finally start this country's economic development. Strategic and more resources need to be financed by the most competitive scientific projects. I'm a scientist, but I have to admit I have no idea what the most competitive scientific project means. Is that the one with the most quotes, is that something else, third, I don't know. So please explain to us what the competitiveness of a project means. Then, he says, it is necessary to form the Office for Control and Control of the implementation of scientific projects. I've been the head of science projects for 15 years. Every year we write reports about what we have done and now, after so many years, I find out that an office will only start to analyze how we are essentially implementing our projects and whether it is in line with the funds and expectations that we gave when we wrote the demands to get these projects, or to finance them by the ministry. Who's done this before? Now I get it. I already asked you that last year. There are six projects inside my program. One project that is brilliant, with countless works, a huge number of quotes is funded, the other which is average, in all, has twice as much resources. Obviously someone in the system has failed or someone is a friend, so let's just give you a little bit more on one basis, and these others a little less, regardless of objective scientific criteria. So now we hear that the final Office for Project Control and Control will be formed. And then it's still standing, increasing the number of mentors and taking the evaluation of their work. I would vice versa, evaluate the work of a mentor, see if we should eventually reduce the number of mentors if we don't have them, if those who are doing this job right now are bad, let's eliminate them, let's reduce the number, and let's make sure that those who are able to take over maybe a larger number of recruits, younger people, and that the system starts. You probably know as well as I do, Professor Pavelic, that in Italy 40 years ago there were major difficulties with scientific projects. Each of the Italian scientists gave his colleague a positive grade and there were countless of them, and they served nothing. There came a minister who had enough courage and strength to say dear friends scientists, from today on are not worth scientific projects, I am now the new minister, asking for the approval of new projects, but you will write them in Italian and English. He sent all the requests to a review outside of Italy. He shut down 70% of the projects overnight, so these 30% were swimming in a lot of money, and these were real people, real science projects, and Italy has since gone quite another way, as a successful industrial country. So these are the problems that we have to start facing and the reports write in a completely different way. I can only finish, here's my promise with one more question. Page 13, accident number 13, maybe he's not unhappy. In 2008, the parent committees conducted election procedures in scientific titles, and now it says there were 990 such elections in new scientific titles. And at the end of that part of the text, related to the work of the parent committees, says: one of the problems that the National Science Council will consider at one of the next sessions, we do not know which, is the inability to correct the wrong decisions of the parent committees. So it was, it claims in the text, the wrong decisions of the parent committees, and it's impossible to correct them. It was to be expected that when you immediately noticed this to our parent committee in the Assembly, you would send a proposal for a solution. The parent board can immediately initiate the process of amending and supplementing the law and we should have dealt with it long ago. I ask you to immediately respond to any lack of law in the future in the way that you send your proposals to the House, or to the parent body. Be assured that we will support you and that we will correct the illogicalness of existing legislation. So here are a number of questions I ask you to answer, which of course depends whether or not we support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36462	Thank you very much. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to individual applications. And the first application was filed by a distinguished colleague of Gordana Sobol. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36463	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's to the National Science Council report, first of all, I'd like to make one of my regrets. Namely, I have called a meeting of the Committee on Gender Equality, among other things, to discuss this report. Unfortunately, there was no quorum because my colleagues and colleagues from HDZ didn't come to me then. But here I want to tell the promoter that unfortunately no one came at that time to defend this report in some way, even if we had a quorum, it wouldn't have happened. But I would only briefly like to, given that it is some provisions of the National Policy for the Promotion of Gender Equality for the period 2006-2010. In fact, there is an area that speaks about education and which speaks about gender sensitive education, and two measures are envisaged within it. So the national policy envisaged two measures. One of them is the introduction of special programmes with female-study content in pre-graduate, graduate, professional studies and postgraduate studies, the deadline for implementation is 2008/2009. The second is the institutionalization of women's studies at pre-graduate, graduate and postgraduate levels according to the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. In fact, it is something that has actually been said in Croatia for many years. We have a series of different associations. One of the biggest dealings with this problem in one part and conducting education behind women's or birth studies is the Centre for Women's Studies. Sometime since 2000, it was only in this national policy in 2006-2010 that these measures were introduced into the national policy itself. What exactly is this about? It is that the National Council for Science adopts, by name, a Regulation on scientific and artistic areas, fields and branches. That rule was passed last year about half of 2008. However, when adopting this regulation, he unfortunately did not make a decision on the determination of the field, or did not accept the proposal of the Department of Ethnology and Cultural Anthropology of the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb in 2007, it was the proposal to include in the interdisciplinary fields of science a gender study in order to open up the possibility of setting up a department for gender studies, for certificates of scientific degrees and to recognise diplomas acquired in related higher education institutions in the world. So it's not through this rulebook done. Afterwards, the National Council for Higher Education adopted a recommendation on the introduction of female studies colleges in pre-graduate, graduate and postgraduate studies on 10 September 2008. So it's because this measure in national policy, so it shouldn't have been implemented last year. She has more room to make it happen this year. So basically this is one of my shorter announcements in fact in some way a request or a reminder, so I believe that you will also have that rulebook in your hands this year and that it can possibly be completed. And I was going through the Committee on Gender Equality, so as a committee, we send you a recommendation to accept and adopt a recommendation from the National Council for Higher Education following the introduction of female studies colleges in pre-graduate, graduate and postgraduate studies. And in order for that to be done, so to bring it back to life, let me put it this way, it takes your intervention, or change of rules that I was talking about earlier. This is what the attorney for gender equality wrote in the end line in his 2008 report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36464	Thank you very much. A colleague, Dragutin Bodakoš, also applied for discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36465	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Committee, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here's exactly by appreciating and listening to the previous presentations of colleagues who spoke on behalf of clubs in fact, both doctors and professors. Therefore, people who are fully involved in the problem of science can only say that precisely their presentations that I consider very high quality show that this Assembly certainly has one particular view of the importance of the National Science Council in the Republic of Croatia. In any case, that council should, it should, and should have an ever-increasing significance in the coming years. I think that what evaluation of the quality of scientific work in scientific organisations can do is to create a prerequisite for greater efficiency of science in the development of our country's economy. In that part, I think that the National Council must also play a decisive role in this particular part when it values the effectiveness of this science in scientific organisations and when it creates one projection that our mind is just placed for the benefit of Croatia's development. I think it's one link that, unfortunately, is often too little to realize, because our science certainly has enough quality and quality scientists, as well as the works that are being projected. But how far they have come and how far in terms of Croatia's development it is a second question. That is why I think what is seen from the report that in 2008 the National Council continued to evaluate the quality and efficiency of scientific and professional work in scientific organisations. And as I can see here, there were 14 organizations that were valued. And from the results we see in this report as many as 5 organizations are deleted immediately from or will be deleted from the register of scientific organizations. It is one of the preconditions that they can no longer be financed from the state budget. However, out of those 14 of these 4 have received a three-year-old deficit. Three procedures are still going on. One delay in evaluation, and only one of them was granted a re-authorization. I think it's a good thing to approach it that way, because I'm sure on that basis it's normal to bring national priorities into science and how we're going to bring them in if we don't know the organizations of science that work anyway. Because based on these priorities, counterpart Doric mentioned these three to four priorities listed in the report that they should. However, they should be defined as such in extreme terms. In any case, these priorities should be but coupled with economic priorities. Based on these, certain productions should also be developed. For example, I'll say agriculture. Agriculture should finally determine with us what these productions are that we want to develop and that we can go with these productions to Europe. Normally, support for this should be a priority development and science in this area. So each other's pooled assets, not waste, should create a quality one-way shift in production. But also to be followed by science, not to be science itself is the reason of its existence or do not know certain works written, published somewhere in the world, and that in extremes in our, in Croatia, or in our development, they have no meaning at all. The second thing, contrary to this evaluation and everything, normal and national councils are seen to have also worked on issuing licences for performing scientific activities in organizations of scientific, primarily university organisations. And here we had the opportunity to see that of the 20 cases that in 14 cases was given a proposal to give a license to work, which I think is good, it's probably in one quality way. However, normally contrary to those abolished allowances for these 14 probably now come in the possibility that they also receive certain grants from the state budget. Unfortunately, however, when we look at what organizations, or colleges or some scientific organisations in some companies and these scientific areas and scientific fields they have received here, one question arises whether these are certain, in a way, certain national priorities, what we are saying 3 to 4 in this and whether this development of science will pull Croatia's development, and especially Croatia's economies? I don't know, there's a lot of similar areas and fields that repeat, it's good to develop it, but I'm saying is that it? In addition, I think some of these also show that there are activities that make significant profits to the production of the Republic of Croatia's market. I mean, I speak primarily to the pharmaceutical industry, I mean, wouldn't they, the question is, do they also need those resources for science from the state budget, or should they, based on their profits, also finance their research and development, which are essentially back in the function of creating some new profit? I know the criteria are what they are, but it's also important to think about it because it's not the same if it's a science organization in a university or in a big company. And finally, I think it is good that this debate on the restructuring of public scientific institutes is also being launched with a view to reforming the institute towards greater focus on national research priorities. I think that's very brief here, but I think that's what should be done, but I think it's one of the important and important issues that we come through this kind of restructuring and confirm exactly the national priorities in the research that will be related to the national priorities of the development of the Republic's economy and the development of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36466	Thank you very much. Next is the debate of distinguished counterpart Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36467	Thank you very much, Vice President, I also welcome Mr Krešimir Pavelic as president of the National Council for Science. I'm going to say something in general, and then I'm going to have a few problems pointing out what my colleagues asked me to do. I just think the report is very correct, so all this data is being given, and I don't know about the parent boards, the field scientific councils, the evaluation of scientific organisations, the improvement of scientific recruits' systems. So, by structure, I think the report is satisfying. Contributions are also given, meaning where certain data can be read in detail and even to that system of decision within the parent board or in the evaluation of scientific organisations. I believe that the National Council is an extremely important entity and logistics in the implementation of the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, but the role of the National Council is also important in proposing and promoting measures to improve scientific activities and participation, together with the National Education Council in the allocation of financial resources to the planned state budget. Therefore, the National Council can be considered one of the co-creators of the science system in the Republic of Croatia and therefore its large and role and responsibility. But here, as well as a university worker, a regular professor, I would like to point out something that my colleagues suggested that I ask or perhaps put it as a problem during this debate. First of all, these are science recruits' problems. In fact, we all agree that the policy on scientific recruits should be strengthened, that we need scientific money, that this is the future and universities and institutes, that we have much greater opportunities around their engagement and around the space and around the equipment and about going to possible universities in the world, so elite universities. So there are much greater opportunities for scientific recruits today than they were yesterday. But here's one question, for example, this is about these scientific recruits. One of the criteria for their choice is, let us take excellent success in the study and it usually be in some way and crucial. However, what does it show? We used to have a system so first it was a master's degree, and then it was a doctorate. When a master’s degree was done, there were mostly mentors’ professors leading their scientific recruits, suggesting both on the subject and sort of taking him through the entire master’s degree and teaching him to do scientific research. Now we come into this situation, we pick a student, he's a great student, a communicative person, all five, and then he actually comes into the making of a doctorate, and he can't handle it. So he's a bad researcher. It just doesn't work for him. And now as scientists, as leaders, as mentors, we find ourselves in a situation where this great student has come into our hands, that we want to make him a doctorate, and because of his scientific project that he's hired to prove himself to be here, we get those points, and in some way, at the evaluation of what he's done, it means to achieve some level. Also because of the environment, because of the environment, you push that man, it means he's a doctor, but he's never a scientist. So from him never a scientist, from him ever anything in that sense, and now the question is how to get rid of that man. So he's not good for that environment. He can stay there by intruding the system, not to mention, and advance with the administration of that inert system in which he is, but he is not what we want, which is to be elite, to be both a university and a good teacher, and above all a good scientist and researcher. It also happens, when we talk about how to get rid of this man, you have a situation where you have an excellent researcher, an excellent scientist, a man who's productive, etc., but he's in a scientific teaching institution, he's in college. So that's where we do both teaching and scientific work. You have a man who is simply incapable of giving a lecture, who has no communication with his colleagues, who is not for teamwork, who on the other hand is not at all for this teaching work, and you have him a good scientist, researcher. How do you get rid of him? He obviously doesn't meet the conditions for being at that institution, so science school, at the university. The same thing that many of our colleagues face, and these are assistants and professional associates who are employees, so those who do not have the mandate on a contract as well as scientific money. And also people who don't possibly do their job. So those, I'd say, out of that joint cookie that this science teaching institution gets paid, they take benefits, but they don't do their job. If you go into solving that man, then on many rise unions, etc., etc. And you actually have, it's not a problem that he doesn't do, as far as he's concerned, and even if he takes that salary, it's what's terribly bad about his environment, and you just can't get rid of it. So that's something to impose as a problem. I assure you that in colleges, if you did one study, you have a very large number of these unproductive people who are employed there, who are there on the payroll and who are creating a bad picture of that institution. And science in general. We're entering an average instead of being an elite. Not the elite in that kind of unusable sense, so the science that is in the function of the development of this society, but indeed the scientific university elite. However, because of these things, we fall into an average, because people usually experience an institution through those who present it. So it's a bad presentation of universities and colleges. Therefore, I advocate that we make one mechanism which means it has to be procedurally established, that it would not be someone's subjective assessment, so that there is a mechanism, that it is public, unequivocal, that it includes all the structures of colleges and universities and that such staff policy can be influenced. It means they don't jump on the legs of unions like it's a factory worker. If a scientific worker is not a worker in one factory or elsewhere. Society and its position in society are set up with much higher scales. Thus, this is how it should be ranked and thus set up. The next problem that is extremely important and that exists at our universities is nepotism. You have a situation where the children of university professors, not only are employed at the same university, but in the same department, at the same college, which is scandalous and unacceptable. And nowhere, I don't know, universities have like their own codes of conduct, etc., but these things are systematically happening. It's unfair competition, it's corruption, it's I don't know what words to call it. We actually make it impossible for those excellent students, the best students, to break through. So we're getting really one university elite and this kind of scientific elite with this very system of nepotism. It violates the credibility of our universities and universities, and I think it must be legally approached. So it's not enough if we're going to support it in a collective, it's enough to legally approach it. I don't think I'm gonna talk about examples, you have a situation to come to the college council where you have 6, 7 husbands and women, and you have to vote with them for what they agreed last night and I don't know when. And that, but that phenomenon isn't isolated, it's so common and so problematic and dangerous for these institutions that it's actually stopping their development. And that must be approached means through the law, to ban things from happening that way. Also, one serious problem is that you have in colleges people who are 60 years old, they're in college their whole life and they're still docents. They're not even extraordinary teachers yet, they're not regular teachers yet, they're docents. I've been pulling out for this very choice for our regular professor, you have 6 papers A1 that you have to contribute, 6 papers A1, so these are the ones that are quoted, I don't know... etc. And take if that man's 30 years in college he needs to write two papers in 10 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Two serious papers, the one with the international review. There are more of these other papers, but that's kind of what I'd say by the inert is in that system so it's going, but these serious papers, so 6 pieces should be written in 30 years and he doesn't write it, but he goes at 60, 65 goes into retirement, he's still a docent, an extraordinary professor, etc., etc. But I'll keep talking about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36468	Thank you very much. We have two reported replicas. First of all, dear colleague Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36469	My colleague Kovacevic, I answered the line not to stand up to you, but to support you. However, what I would like to add is that 90% of what we are now discussing and what you have just said can be solved by you and I, without changing the law without calling a colleague Pavelic and a national council. It's very simple. This doctor, let's go from the end. Docent, when you write him a report, write a negative report, eliminate him, and we need to start eliminating the unskilled people in the system. Novak. Why are we taking in a scientific recruit? Not to stay in college, but to realize my science project. I take every recruit I say, you're a fellow molecular biologist, and I need you now. We have to do this. But you, when you're a doctor and when this period is over, you're on the street. You're looking for a job, I've educated you, I've allowed you to doctor, the world is ahead of you, there's no other. That's how the whole world behaves. And that's how we have to start. If he's not good and clearly I'm going to eliminate him on the basis of a bad, negative report, he's not going to doctor me in time, there's no way he's going to keep working on the project. Therefore, we ourselves must begin to change our behavior significantly with regard to these people, be brave enough, contracts agree that we can conclude in a way that is strictly related to the project, that no union or anyone, because this is not a union struggle. This is clearly about the very clearly defined principles of education, the education of young people in the field of science, and this is what the President of the National Science Council may suggest to us in some things, but we can and should be much more determined in some moves. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36470	Thank you. Reply to the replica of his colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36471	Thank you very much, Mr. Doric. Namely, here when I was talking about these scientific money the simple system was so made even though they were at a certain time to after the end of this time and if in that timing a doctorate was made to be considered somehow common in the system so that it remained. Then it happens that you don't take it and someone else takes it. So make sure I don't tell a fool myself in the system. So these things just happen, and these mechanisms must also be able, therefore, to be metors, leaders, etc., they must be of a better quality. I also think that what we have right now is this system of masters, or a system of Ph.D.s without a master's degree, that we have actually disabled the learning of this scientific recruit methodology, the way of research, etc., so that he would then be independent at the doctorate and that really when he was doctoring it would be his research scientific work. This is how he will be until the act of doctoring almost led, where he is given a theme and where the experiments, hypotheses, etc. are planned, so all of this is set up for him and he is almost under quotes "chinastically" doing it and getting the title of Dr. Science, so he becomes a scientist in some way. And later on, in fact, the whole story itself doesn't work out, and it's never really made out of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36472	Thank you very much. Second registered for the debate, distinguished colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36473	Thank you very much. What my colleague Kovacevic said about privatising certain categories I absolutely support and here is finally matured time to stand uniquely against this monster already. So not only does this happen in individual universities, universities, but also in individual courts. It is one thing, also in certain institutions with public powers, companies with public powers, and it should be put to rest, and there is no other than legislation that would very precisely regulate that all these geniuses with genius results on their knees form their private companies, their private, their private colleges when they are already so brilliant. It can even happen why they are not successful, they can't be successful both spouses and children, but they simply can't be in such positions that I don't repeat, what fellow Kovacevic was talking about and unfortunately not only reserved for individual cathedrals and colleges, but such a monster has spread further. And all under some kind of firm or this institution of autonomy that no one alive has anything to say about it. I say, the direction is when they're so brilliant, why don't they go to private waters and see how brilliant they really are on the market. I believe that we will not be able to resolve this, first of all without such a single political will, so I have reported that I am giving support as my colleague Kovacevic said, who must then be translated into legislation in order to avoid any things, in order not to be indiscriminate some particular persons because they are in a certain blood relation or a Tabisan kinship that must still be regulated by law in order to avoid such situations as are ultimately degraded by the institutions and then do not have the trust of our citizens so much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36474	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Kola Kovacevic, reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36475	Well, the thing is quite clear, therefore, about this nepotism. We have, as state officials, a law on preventing conflicts of interest. So the same thing should apply to universities, so it's simply a conflict of interest, it raises the credibility of the system, it reduces the chances of those who are really the best and those who need to be the head of those universities. The same other thing that I was talking about and that violates the credibility of the system, that's the question of ours, calling university professors who at age 60 and over are still docents. They spend their whole lives in college, and I can't write six serious scientific papers. And then what happens at those colleges? We have a re-election system. So, after five years, the maximum one goes back from the doctor to the extraordinary professor and allows him to have five more years to repair it. So five years from now, he hasn't done what he needs and he's still been able to do it for five years. And that's 10. But what is it? Then that our colleagues not to get fired then the unions jump, the solidarity of colleagues, etc., and then the following is made, it is sent to some university that we thank God produced in Croatia, to a university where it gets some title, teaching, and then it comes back to us with this home call to the university and teaches these students again. I wonder what kind of a number he is, what kind of scientific teaching capacity that he can teach his students without writing a serious scientific paper in 10 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36476	Thank you very much. The time to apply for the debate has expired for individual applications. And the last application under this point is a respected colleague of Miljenko Doric. Here's a colleague of Doric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36477	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, as I was speaking in front of the club, I should not have brought out what I'm about to say now because it's a whole other matter, another way of collecting data for this debate. Namely, I, as an agent, whenever a report or a law appears on the agenda, I call 10 people I think can help me with a relevant assessment from that area and so I have now. And I have two groups of objections that I would like to present here to the president of the National Science Council because I think they are very important. First of all, by those who work in the scientific teaching process, which I have touched a little bit in my first presentation, namely, it is very important to assess objectively and correctly the project proposals when accepted by evaluation groups, by the auditors. There you can make the biggest mistake and there seems to be the biggest mistake. I guarantee because I know a good opportunity in biomedicine that there are countless cases where relatively modest projects are well rated and well funded. And that others who are truly excellent went wrong because he obviously had no godfather in the right place to make judgment the way he should have done. And now it's not just that someone for three years, or if the program is five years, they're going to get less funding. President of the National Council the consequences are terrible. So I came up with a list the other day, and the list was with grades of 20, and I think I'm up to 45 individual projects, and I'm basically repeating the wrong methodology. So, first of all, we should give the reviewers some instructions. Is that the number of papers in... Whether it's an impact factor of that magazine, whether it's a number of quotes or a multiple of all these factors, I don't care, but there's got to be some kind of instruction on your part or by the minister, I don't know who. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it must not happen that some papers within the same area are evaluated in a significantly different way, because later on, these people appear to be scientific recruits, they can't get it, because on that first step they're misjudged. Later they report for scientific equipment, they can't get it, they're always at the bottom of the list, because they're misjudged. I'm not saying for those who are properly rated. Let them never get the equipment, they don't deserve the recruit, they don't deserve the honor. But when it comes to error, and there are mistakes, then it's very incorrect because it's going to drag the system, then it's just multiplying injustices against those who are misjudged. That's why some people told me to back up and let me tell you that this idea of setting up an office to control and monitor project realization is great and that maybe there should be some kind of inter-ocular not only at the beginning and at the end that perhaps at the function of time might then be faster to correct these irregularities. And the other group of objections, or requests to me to tell you, is by the businessmen, who I asked if anyone ever asked them from the university, from the Chamber of Commerce, from the county, that certain scientific projects might be directed and addressed to some of their problems. Yesterday I seemed to be talking to me when I was in France as a young scientist, the French minister then in the '80s said. Three scientific areas are priority, semiconductors,... fibers, genetic engineering. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He knew exactly what he needed for the needs of the economy in France. So for three years, it was a whole other three projects. And clearly, from year to year, these discoveries are being carried out in their economy, and they are, as is ours, because of these important differences in the concept of the importance of science. Therefore, here is another request from the businessmen to think more about them, to include them more that individual research and priorities are given to certain economic branches that can clearly multiply some profit and benefit for this society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36478	Thank you very much. We have two reported replicas. First, my colleague Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36479	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Doric, what you said was that scientific projects are directed towards the economy. I think it's one of the essential items that should lead to something else. And that other thing would certainly be the development of that economy. I'm talking about agriculture and when I mentioned it today, so just all of these credentials that are in these 14 scientific organizations, none of them are touched by activities related to the development of agriculture. Whether our institutes or scientific organizations working in the area are enough. But I don't see in any part that this very return of science to the economy, that is, the economy according to science, would appear. I think that is why it should certainly be the national council that in some way directs and directs in its discussions, it is clear that your activities are great to go and out of Zagreb, to communicate normally with everyone. To try to point out exactly what counterpart Doric said. We need to go ask, we need to see what are the priorities that these scientific and scientific priorities would agree together, but also those scientific priorities to function in the development of our economy. And we know what our comparative advantages are, where we can develop and where science should certainly help solve this developmental pathway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36480	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of counterpart Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36481	I thank my colleague for his support. I think we're achieving a consensus in which we're going to support all of our colleagues Kovacevic, we support the National Science Council when it comes to these priority areas. We haven't heard of who they are yet. But I agree with you that surely one of them should be agriculture. Preserving food, preparing better food products. We're a tourist country, my God, we're going to make some moves here. Is that another, third, fourth area? Let's make a deal. But we can't do anything. We can't go to everything and everything. We have to decide what our priorities are. If France could have only had three priorities in the '80s. My God, one small Croatia can't possibly have 30.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36482	Thank you very much. Next replica, dear colleague Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36483	Thank you very much. In fact, colleagues Doric and Bodakoš said well. So science must not be self-inflicted. It must be in the function of developing the economy. And if we look at fundamental research and technological research, they have to have a balance. In America, in view of the structure of the projects, about 80% of them are related to solving specific problems in the economy. In the European Union, it is at 20%, while in the Republic of Croatia it is only 5%. So the objection could go to science, but also to the economy. So it's also an interest in research. Namely, a good thing that is, for example, a good thing. in the Ministry of Agriculture where there is a Council for Research in Agriculture and Marketing Preparations of Food Products, where projects which solve specific problems in agricultural production itself, processing and marketing of agricultural products, or market performance, are financed through these aspects. However, what we must do in Croatia happened when an analysis is made that the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Agriculture is paying for one and the same projects. On them, the same scientists, or titles, are only slightly changed. And it turns out that these projects overlap with both thematics and results, etc., and even the same people do. Why? Because there is no coordination between the ministries, because the catalogue is not a single record of projects being conducted in the Republic of Croatia, so that it can be seen that we are not paying the same thing because one and the other is coming from the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36484	Thank you very much. The answer of my colleague Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36485	I completely agree with my colleague Kovacevic, but we can bring it down to the level of local and regional authorities. I'll tell you that I was in a state of unrest when I objected ten years ago to my mayor, my rector, and the president of the Chamber of Commerce in the Primorje-Gorski County why don't we give the Tempus scholarships some of them for the purpose of improving people from the economy. If "May 3" has a problem with a certain type, he cheats on certain alloys, etc. Why don't their man go to Rotterdam for three weeks at the shipyard and learn that. Unfortunately, you know they're not always looking for these ways of solving through a scientific institution, etc. That's funny. So let's help them, let's get into it. I really believe that and I will keep telling science can't be its own purpose. We must put them into function of the development of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36486	Thank you very much. That's why we exhausted the last one that was filed for discussion. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36487	Mr. Chairman. I must admit that I am pleasantly surprised with this debate and it seems that science still gets meaning from day to day and I mean, I am convinced that science can change this dreary situation in Europe, not only in Croatia. I'm surprised, not surprised, but I'm actually pleasantly surprised with the quality of the debate. I've carefully noted it myself, I'll try to answer it briefly because I'm in a few specific questions. I'll start with the esteemed representative Sobol. Unfortunately, I only got calls today. I can't come tomorrow. I'm very happy to put this on, this proposal. However, with regard to the regulation, I will try to synthesize some remarks. The regulation on areas and fields is one of the things where I personally feel failure simply because in a given situation an academic consensus cannot be created in our community. I think that this problem is solved or so that, I won't elaborate much, you will get in the report for this year to lift the branches, to introduce fields and areas, to separate this entire system from the system of progress, the doctorate, the register, and then we have an absurd situation to set up a new institution or a new colleague, a fellow comes from abroad with a problem that is not in the rulebook he can't progress there, can't be entered in the register. So we're going to try to initiate this one quick solution and until further notice, we're going to allow the rulebook to change periodically relatively quickly. The Council should have more importance in the coming years. It was a finding. I agree with her, however, the mass of issues that are now being raised outside the council's authority. It's a question of economic relations. I am one of the advocates that the technological development of the sea or technology must be put into the National Science Council and that it is seen, therefore, from an insight into the context of both development and fundamental sciences. I hope we can make it. Other institutions are in charge of this problem in Croatia and the same mass of your issues comes from the area of higher education. I absolutely agree with the conclusion that there was not enough cooperation between these two councils and there was no cooperation simply because the Higher Education Council had a fine job of registering new studies. They couldn't deal with strategic matters. I hope that changes now and that here we are, we've had a meeting together recently and agreed to go with these important things together. So that includes this problem about the university you've set up. As far as priorities are concerned, I'm standing at the point where we're going to go out with three or four priorities, regardless of what these conflicting opinions are, I can't mention those priorities right now because we've just started. I believe somewhere early in the fall we'll vote them out. I don't think so, we've got priorities for now, and by the end of the year there's a lot of them, there's got to be a lot less of them, and I agree with that, and I think we can do that. The distribution of financial resources, I'm one of the advocates that we can't ask for everything in the budget. If we look at the percentage of GDP, the percentage that stands out for science in it in the countries developed as you yourself have observed participates in the economy. So that part was completely off-limits. What we can do is not exactly that we haven't tried to talk to the economy. Unfortunately, the economy has little or no interest in scientific research so far, the reasons for this exist. However, precisely because, I am, if you were here on this first part of it said we are planning one, two, so if you need a few sessions of thematics exclusively regarding this issue and this problem regardless of what is not in our intelligence because once again I say I think that we can be drawn from this situation by science and investment in science. We have taken a few measures, I will not mention them now, they are significant and would significantly increase this percentage of investment. It is an extraordinary application around project catalogues and co-ordination among ministries. If you remember last year's report, we made a decision to achieve an interminist, so one fund between the research ministries in different areas, and at that time this proposal was about 500 million kuna, which would apparently not be a big problem. However, there was simply no possibility of doing so because this council that Professor Flego was talking about had to be revived, you know, in whose authority it could be. I hope it starts now. So, as far as the economy is concerned here, I promise we'll be in the first session, we have two highly respected businessmen in the council and the council has heard about the problem. I won't comment on the problem of nepotism, I think the best solution is legal. There's really no big debate, no need to argue. It's a question of scientific recruits. I absolutely agree with Professor Doric. The contract clearly states what the fate of the recruits is, so you recruits can get rid of it very simply. The second question is our mentality and the fact that we keep recruits practically for life in the system and that's the problem and it can be easily solved. We've proposed some measures, so cut off the recruiting internship for four years as well as the doctorate, tighten the recruit's obligations in the contract, they haven't been so far. We're open to the suggestion of being a category of scholarship students. So, we think, let's say one idea that we discussed yesterday is why a recruit wouldn't get a voucher from the state and go to the place that was best for him. So it's kind of a scholarship. However, we had one round table at the university, I must say that the union's reaction was very sharp and also a novice, they're not ready for it. So, we're going to insist on some of those measures that, I think, we've already sent them to the ministry. The evaluation of the project's proposals is not in our jurisdiction. We are, for this very reason, fully, together with the ministry and I must say, working well with the ministry and implementing this series of measures on the new funding system, so on projects, etc. What I'm talking about, I'm not going to repeat now, about forming a list of international reviewers, just that what you're talking about is getting rid of. And I hope next year it starts, although I'm skeptical that the foundation will be able to grow stronger and stronger so quickly, but we have to help her there. Someone said the little ones are projects, they're funny little ones. I think it's one measure that's going to go into giving a colleague some kind of basic metabolism that doesn't want to work, so on. Competative projects, I'll tell you what it is, we have a solution for that, or the ministry has one solution that I think is good. And now, in short, I admit the mistake of dealing with magazines and publishing activities a little bit. I tried on several occasions to get a consensus on it. Since the 9th month, a task force has been tasked with trying to solve the problem, and we as the National Council will come up with a solution. I've said cooperation with another national council, money and scholarships, so we're open to this variant of the scholarship. I very much like the idea of an analysis of technology projects, even though it is not in our domain, but if the ministry agrees, and eventually Parliament, with the technology component being introduced into the National Council, then we will do so easily. The problem that we had yesterday, or before, and we're going to come up with solutions very quickly, is the problem of restructuring the institute. My view of this situation is very close to what we heard today. In fact, I think we need to get things back in history, that there are several institutes of national importance, because there are areas that are of national importance. It also takes a large corps of these institutes to return to universities, because universities really cry out for frames, for equipment, for knowledge. Why don't we do it? But I can't judge, it's in progress now, and I think it might go that way. Of course, then national institutes have national tasks. The state gives them these tasks, and there will be no situation that if we, as the National Council, order one study to attack a problem, this institute that belongs to public institutes asks us to pay it. And the ministry pays both cold drive and wages, etc. So these are things that aren't natural. Also, the fact that we have several institutes with the same activity. So I think that's where we're going with these suggestions. I absolutely agree with the budget review, with the fact that we need to be aware of the situation and try to find some alternative solutions. We've just suggested one solution, they'll come to you for a vote here in Parliament, I think it's good, but I wouldn't prejudge it right now. Connecting science and economy, I said, is one of the very close topics that come on the agenda. Competitiveness. Professor Doric, you can read competitiveness as excellence, and in science it is very simple to thank God it is very simple. It is known what excellence is in science and when we say competitiveness then we think competitiveness in terms of competition for European funds. I won't mention the evaluation of the projects much. I think we're finding one solution right now, so far that's what the ministry's been doing. It's not equipped for such a job, and I think it's a good thing it came out of that Corps now. The project's being shut down. As for the parent boards and the district councils, I personally am not satisfied with that solution. It is a legal solution that we as the National Council absolutely cannot affect the decisions of the parent committees that are final. It's the court that rules. So far, as far as I know, no dispute has been won, but we've been waiting somehow for this new law to start and then it's settled. If not, then we'll go to this variant that you mentioned. So when we talk about the context of the recruits and I absolutely agree that the problem isn't really in the money, it's in the mentors. And if you remember in the report, now I don't remember whether this year or last year we said a mentor's analysis was launched. I kind of know what that's gonna look like. It's going to be as defeative as this money thing is defeated. But what's important for science is the constant that we should always actually encourage the best, even if we have to, it's very unpopular and externally importing those best. And that's the one thing that I think is going, that Croatia has now become open. As football players are bought, so will high-end scientists who will help us develop the critical mass of scientists we don't have right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36488	Thank you very much. And we've still got a report of one rectification, colleague Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36489	Mr. President, in order for me to tell you something first, I'm afraid I have to correct your incorrect allegations. I think it's an incorrect assumption that the National Council has nothing to do with technology projects, because they're basically called scientific technology. It is true that a whole series of other bodies are involved in technology projects, but it is true that there is not a single national strategic body that could do so. If you have any difficulties given the support you have received today, you contact the Assembly Committee, we will give it to you. And two. The National Science Council will no longer evaluate every project, will not evaluate the current performance of projects and their leaders. But the National Council, and I think it would be good to draw up appropriate guidelines for the evaluators and tell. This should be done in this way, it should be done in such a way that the evaluators have more or less uniform criteria to apply in individual cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36490	I agree. ... This initiative because it's important to us about technology. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this second question is absolutely right and I think it is already, we started this process but unfortunately we haven't figured it out yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36491	Thank you very much. There were you gentlemen doctors, scientists, professors, fellow MPs listening nicely. I'm sorry that he's not here yet, and he's a professor, and he likes to do research, too. But she wasn't touched, you said, what you were talking about is what we all feel together and I'd say we're all together and we're paying. Because it's spoken if it's totaled for science, and I'd like Maric to sum up how much he's singled out to scientists. Because there was a new time in Croatia, because every little manager, the head of the administration that holds something to himself, has a consultant. Then it's usually co-workers, and if they're more strong-ranking, it's a more valuable project. If he fails, it's a higher power. There's no answer to anyone here, but there's a very significant amount of resources being allocated, so I just don't know if those funds are sciences or scientists. After your discussion, you're on a good track. She should go to science. Someone should be estimating that. Because I am convinced, and you know it very well, that many papers are written on the road from one session to another, where it takes... It's a consultation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I won't open the debate any further. I'll put Maric in charge of examining that part. But believe me, I only know girls tens of millions of kunas. But we're moving on now.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36492	The 2008 report on the work of the National Council for Science of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with the proposal of the Parliamentary Authority and the Government, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work for the 2008 National Council for Science of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 76 votes in favour and 38 against, a proposed conclusion was reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36493	Point eight, we're going to skip to a request from the board president that's not possible to be here with us, so we're going to the ninth point. This is - Report by the Commission on the 2008 conflict of interest to be decided by the applicant: The Commission for Decision on the conflict of interest has submitted this report on the basis of Article 17. Law to prevent conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties. You received the proposal by mail. Proposer's representative is the chairman of the commission, Mr. Mate Kacan. Does he want to turn around? Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36494	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. In front of you is the Annual Report of the Committee on Conflict of Interests for 2008. As it stands, it has been the third report since the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest came into force in 2003. I believe you're familiar with the basic specifics of the commission's work. But let me say a few words about the commission's work. The Commission's core task is to prevent conflicts of interest. The task has already been defined by the very name of the law. The Commission's basic formal act is an opinion. Officials are obliged to seek the opinion of the commission on any future situation in which conflict of interest could potentially arise. On the other hand, it is the commission's obligation to give such an opinion. Of course, the commission also deals with situations where conflict of interest has already arisen. In such a case, a decision shall be taken to determine the responsibility of the officials and may impose sanctions. The current composition of the commission in 2008 was not an easy task. The current composition of the commission has practically been working since October 2008 because of the circumstances I trust you to know. In 2008, therefore, we had only 3 months to take over the work and to carry out the tasks for which the commission exists. You are also aware that the draft law has increased the number of officials, as members of the county, towns and municipalities entered the circle. In addition, the law also prescribed new content of the property card, so the commission was obliged to establish a new form of form. There was no shortage of work, since it was necessary to decide at the same time on the opinions' demands and to initiate conflicts of interest procedures. Today you have the results of our work in 2008. I believe that within three months, the commission has managed to achieve at least part of the required tasks. What I would like to stress at this point is that it may be part of your debate and suggestion is next. Namely, the Commission's basic task is to prevent unauthorised behaviour in the exercise of public duties. In short. Prevention of those behaviors that can lead to corruption. The goal of successful conflict prevention is to raise awareness of what is a conflict of interest in both officials and the highest public in the Republic of Croatia. The sanctions are laid down in the law and sanctions will apply the Commission wherever it keeps it justified. However, the key is in prevention. The Commission considers that education is an indispensable role for the Commission and accordingly, as well as for the tasks set out in the Anti-Corruption Strategy, the Commission will implement education programmes that will help officials to identify and avoid any form of conflict of interest. That's it. Thank you for your attention and for all the suggestions you will have in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36495	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We're moving on to a debate on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community's debate club, distinguished counterpart Emil Tomljanovic applied. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36496	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the Annual Report of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest for 2008 with the preliminary conclusion that it is therefore a quality made up, that it gives a full, real, faithful picture of the work of the commission in the time observed and that it can indeed serve as a basis for discussion and not only about the work of the commission, but also about the problem of conflicts of interest in general. Namely, this particular report shows one relationship between corruption and the conflict of interest institutes. In the broadest sense, corruption represents any abuse of public authority for private purposes. In this way, defined corruption includes the most diverse illegal activities of all those who have the means and make decisions in the behaviour of public authorities. In this regard, it is possible at all levels of behaviour of the government and of the state and public service. There is also one legality that I want to stress on this occasion. Namely, any form of corruption that has the characteristics of a crime simultaneously represents a conflict of interest. However, any situation of conflict of interest is not an automatic crime nor must it have the characteristics of a criminal offence. To point out that the Commission does not have the authority of the public persecution body or is its purpose and does not have the possibility to impose sanctions corresponding to the severity of any criminal offences committed. In such situations, the Commission shall, as a rule of application, establish the basis of the offence, that a criminal offence has been committed, that is, the existence of a possible criminal offence shall refer to the relevant authorities for appropriate treatment. The sanctions at the Commission's disposal best refer to what role the commission should actually play in society, primarily in terms of preventing corrupt behaviour, because the conflict of interest is not resolved, of course, the lobby of corruption, the introduction to corruption and its most difficult forms. Therefore, the sanctions that the commission may impose on the official are to suspend the payment of part of the official's net monthly salary, notice or public publication of the commission's decision on the expense of officials. All of this is, in fact, a fundamental relationship between corruption and conflict of interest, noting that the law defines the prohibited actions and behaviour of officials who, in a particular situation, act or may constitute a conflict of interest. Therefore, the role and task of the commission is not to process the possible conduct of crimes by officials, but to point to cases and the existence of conflicts of interest which have led or may lead to unlawful conduct, which in certain situations have the characteristics of the criminal offence committed regardless of the criminal act of corruption committed and whose features of criminal offences are in the Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, this commission is not a commission to say this, to establish an affair or a body that directly persecutes perpetrators of criminal offences, but the commission is tasked to point out those persons and situations where in the conduct of the public duties of the institution unacceptable behaviours, nepotism, supplication, the provision of property benefit related to the conduct of public duties. And the bottom line is, "turn the public's privates off," so all the laws, all the paragraphs, the work of the commission might be summed up into that one single sentence. Forget about private matters and take care of the state. Of course that's the inscription on the entrance to the prince's chambers in the prince's court in Dubrovnik, so here, and this occasion is not a bad time to mention that beautiful sentence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36497	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club, it is up to the debate of distinguished counterpart Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36498	Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Commission, colleagues and colleagues. Since I'm a member of this committee myself, then it's my turn to be and try to be extremely objective because it's also "mea culpa" when it comes to certain failures. But the first steps were made. There have also been painful moments, and there have been, a year ago, an ugly incident since one member, or member of the commission, had to leave us because of everything that was happening and around it. But let's start with our commission's obligations. Just in a few words. Therefore, the Commission's obligations are to keep the register of the report on the property status of officials. We had a lot of trouble in the middle of last year when we changed the law, when we suddenly got 3,000 new officials. It was very hard to get all those property cards back then, we did what we could. Unfortunately, it is clear that people try to escape if the law is not precisely clear, completely clear. And he was obviously not, some interpreted it as the obligation only of those who would be elected after the adoption of the law, and not of those who at that time were officials, or members of the headship, etc. So we had a lot of trouble. To give an opinion on whether an officer's behaviour is in line with the principles of public duty and whether the action or failure of an officer is a violation of the provisions of the law. The lack of this report certainly is that it stands well, we received 55 items, or reports. We've processed them, or they're in a total of 28. What about those 27? We didn't say why we didn't process them, when we were going to process them, and are we going to process them? It's got to be here. Then I'd like to underline the following. When there was an amendment and an addition to the law, then we clearly got the obligation of public action, maximum being open to the public. And I have to say that sometimes a large number of journalists come to the commission, sometimes they're gone. But my proposal was, and on several occasions I repeated it, and here, and once again, let's give it to my colleagues and colleagues, let's help the commission to raise our websites, to say on those websites what applications we got, when we got them, when we asked for further explanations, when we made any decisions or opinions. Let's show that dynamic, let's show our work, let's be really open. That's what all parliaments do, we need to do it anyway. We failed to do this and do it the way we were supposed to do it, for we too must be under pressure, not just officials. And we have to give objective grades, grades in time and grades that will help not to happen so far. We meet a lot, but I don't think it's often enough. We have to meet regularly, whether it's every Thursday, first Thursday of the month, that every second Tuesday of the month, anyway, but we have to meet more often. We can't happen to give a report to the Parliament, where we've got 55 applications, and we've done 22, 3, 5 of us are in the process, and what about the others? Why didn't we solve them? We need to work harder, more often, faster, more efficient. Then, does our commission have the opportunity to be, to have an item in the budget? I think so. President, I think we can and should look for it. Here's a flyer, a conflict of interest, 12 questions in that flyer. Beautiful. What's a conflict of interest? Why should he be avoided? How is the conflict of interest in Croatia regulated? Why shouldn't he be doing business with connected people as an official? May I receive gifts? What if someone buys me dinner or gives me an example? A book or an art painting? May I have other sources of income during my term of office? I am not an official, but an official, do the provisions of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties apply to me? What's a property card? Why does the property card matter? Why do I have to fill it out? Who can I contact if I'm not sure if I'm in a conflict of interest? What can happen to me if I do not respect the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties? I say 50% of these questions wouldn't have been answered by us sitting here. So education is also an important factor. Should our commission have at least so much financial freedom and space to print a flyer like this? To share it with those whom he refers. To try to promote those goals we've been set up for. I think we have a lot of work ahead of us, even though we've done it, we need to be correct. The other day, when one of the permanent delegations came, I kept saying the most beautiful things, because I wouldn't let my country be black in any way or the working bodies of this Parliament, but when we're in this system, when we look into each other's eyes, we recognize our colleagues and colleagues, we still have a lot of work to do in front of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36499	Thank you very much. The other clubs didn't sign up. We're moving on to an individual debate, and the first person to sign up for the esteemed colleague Dragutin Lesar. Here's your colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36500	Dear colleagues, colleagues, dear Mr. Kacan. Several months ago in the Croatian media, when this commission was discussed, whose report I am considering today, and some members of the commission and the president were called the moral vertical of the Croatian Parliament. Do you remember these discussions in public, do you remember the qualifications that were given and the hopes that were slow to the new composition of the commission after the change of the law last May. What is left of the moral vertical of the Croatian Parliament? Mr. Kacan, with this report that you came before the Croatian Parliament, I usually find it embarrassingly bad, and you have had the chance to raise the reputation of your commission that you chaired, you have brought down the reputation and the commission, but also the Institute of Conflict of Interest. You have reduced to insignificant bureaucratic interpretations of certain, as you have called it, preventive advisory opinion and nothing more. You mention in the report that the commission was established on 15 July last year, and what was before 15 July? I remind you that on 12 January last year a new assembly of the Croatian Parliament was established and that several hundred officials were due to hand over their property cards at the end of the term. And also several hundred officials at the beginning of the term of office. So it either happened in February or March. There's no mention of that in your report. What do you think your job wasn't to look back at fulfilling the law's obligations, which hasn't changed, which was before? Is it possible that you started working, that everything that was before the execution obligation and what must be in the archives of your documentation, and the commission's service did and received the items, the report at the end of the term of office, the report at the beginning of the term of office, was not your job to do it. I think so. In February of last year, a public letter addressed five members of the commission. The last meeting had nine members, five outsiders. Most of the members of the commission were working before the Parliament elected 4 representatives or should have chosen. I publicly invited them to do their part of the job, and they carefully prepared all the reports that came so that they wouldn't happen to disappear. And now that's exactly what happened. Did everyone who was due after 12 January last year file their property cards at the end of the term? Tell me, Mr. President, did all of us parliamentary representatives of this call file reports on the state of the property at the beginning of the term of office? If someone isn't who are these people who aren't? Have all the members of the government filed a report, the current current current government? In the report, not a word. But there's something else that's been fraternizing me. I quote "By constituting the current conference of the Croatian Parliament on 11 January 2008, he stopped working on the previous meeting of the Commission". That's not true. Under Article 16 of the Law, external members of the commission are elected to the term of office of 7 years and the external members of the commission on 12 January of last year have not ceased their term of office. They were members of the commission, five out of nine. As is your mandate and you have been elected for 7 years and with the mandate of the Parliament as external members, you have nothing to do with it. Only parliamentary representatives who are members of the commission are elected to the mandate, which is the parliament's mandate. And after our disbandment and termination of our mandate, you remain a member of the commission by letter of the law. One of those five who came out publicly was Mrs. Desa Milkotin Tomic, who told me in response that commission services are doing their part of the job, and when the commission is gathered to review everything that was to be reviewed. How did it end? We know. Then... went through some other stuff. But I'm asking you again. Does this commission really think that it was not necessary to review the documents after 12 January of last year for all officials at the end and at the beginning of the term of office? What else is this report for? What else have you come up with new instructions on patterns and supplementary data that we need to give, if you don't control it? Second question. The receiving of gifts, more than 500 kuna, is forbidden for officials to receive gifts. In order to handle receiving gifts to state officials, the Government regulates the procedure by means of a regulation. How does the government treat the gifts that officials received and are worth more than 500 kuna? How does the president of the state treat them? How do we deal with them in the Parliament? Have you made one control of receiving gifts worth more than 500 kuna in accordance with the government's regulation where they are stored and whose property are they? What official for state property has handed over how many gifts worth more than 500 kuna? You're the only one who's authorized to oversee it. In the report, you didn't even mention that part of the law, you didn't control it, you didn't examine it. You don't have to wait for applications. You need to request a report, check the government's regulations and see if gifts worth more than 500 kuna are given in government property? Do you still think it's not your job, and in the second report, you go through it like it's none of your business and come to us with a report just for those items you've received at someone's request? Or it would be a good idea, Mr. President, to supplement this within 30 days, to provide an update on the property cards of all officials after 12 January of last year. Because otherwise, I warn you, that we are officers working in the commission service and that any changes made to the website don't work according to the law. It's not in the law that the officers check the inputs, it's you. You monitor, you control and you have the right to sanction anyone who has not filed the report. I don't believe you've all submitted. At least one of them is late. But you don't mention the subject at all. Furthermore, the commission does not have its own website. The commission uses the website from the Croatian Parliament, except for that review of the property card other data, you do not have the option. All this stuff you said here was supposed to be on the web pages written. If you won't be transparent in time, then who will? And I'll finish the next one. I apologize for teaching you the law, because I see it's ridiculous. Because you're smiling. The Institute of Conflict of Interest and you, as chairman of the commission with your colleagues and colleagues, must indeed set yourself up as a moral vertical not only of the Croatian Parliament, but of Croatian politics. The law has given you a means, a way, a tool to publicly stamp each of us who has come to mind to come into conflict of interest. You must be moral verticals if we want people to regain confidence in politics. That's why the law was passed, that's why you were elected, set up, that's why you're getting a fee, and that's why you're coming with a report from the Parliament. This is not a report on the work of the commission, this is a report on the work of the commission on the cases for interpretation of the laws or applications you have received. Not anymore. The work of the commission is far beyond that. Otherwise, you will propose amendments to the law to abolish property cards if you think they're made up just so that employees in your professional services deal with them to journalists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36501	Thank you very much. Next comes the debate of distinguished counterpart Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36502	Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Commission. Now we've heard too much from what we should have said. Why? Someone seems that the commission should do as he thinks, not according to the law. And the commission works in accordance with the law. My colleague, Lesar, was completely wrong to realize that it was an investigative commission that would require of all the gifts he might have received. When a person starts to ask the commission or gets permission from the commission to give someone a gift, the commission will react accordingly. And who knows which ministry and which ministers or who you've already listed there, gets gifts. Where are the gifts, how many were there, what are the values still. The board, I think it's starting to work well. Here's the question. What about the items that weren't processed? A good part of the case has been rejected, because the commission is not dealing with it, because the more people it's talking about, the more they're not government officials anymore. So, that's what I mean and that's what you should say. I think my colleague Lesar should have been here when he was the law, when it came to the law, etc. Then he should have said all this, so the commission would probably have to hire the crime police and part of the USKOK to investigate. The committee responds to signed applications, anonymous applications, enquiries, and this is resolved regardless of what I say anonymously, anonymously, is investigated in such a way that they are called, asked for supplements, even if they are called witnesses, so it works in one of not-so-called ways that would be applicable out there somewhere, I guess 46. I have to say that here are the members of the commission working very consciously, but there are what you're talking about a few hundred, not exactly a few hundred, we have several thousand applications. Nearly 600 cities, municipalities and counties may each have five members of the headship and we Countys know that they have both significantly more and cities especially some significantly more. That's already 3,000. Well, we said here, we're all to blame for raising our hand I have to admit, but we warned that the members of the headship shouldn't, given that it was already known that the headship should not go away with those applications, so it was buried, a lot of them gave, a lot of them and didn't give members of the headship. But a very large part of it got there to report them. What about it? No more, no more goodbye, no more headship, and it's over. Furthermore, the commission has been quite prominent in the media lately. Now, the commission is not doing its job. Why? Because he doesn't ask people where they get the difference between the card they handed over at the start of some kind of duty, mandate, and eventually. Well, that's not the point of the commission. Look, this definitely doesn't work, and it shouldn't work because the target card is not to question how someone got rich or poor, however you want. The aim of the property card is to be public without people from the nearest environment following whether someone could have gotten it out of their pay, out of their incomes or not. So, the goal is political. In other words, tell the voters here look the man got rich, couldn't even interest in cases of clear interest in other institutions. But the commission is neither the state's attorney's office nor the USOK. Therefore, do not expect the commission to do so. There are lawyers there, there is a professional service. Unfortunately, the professional service changed, well, if it had changed a little sooner, it would have been even better, the rooms had changed, the pages had changed, everything had changed in principle but now the commission was working. A tempo that may not be as common as you think but isn't even necessary because the fact is that the application isn't too common. There are more questions, namely people who read are warned, asking if they can be on the Supervisory Board at the same time and I don't know in the headship or I don't know anything like that, to the Government, etc. This legal service processes and the fact is that in time a man is answered and that, in general, the people who have asked listen to what they have been told, so they act according to their responsibility. So I don't see any reason for this kind of attack. You should have done that, that and that, you weren't working there, why you weren't doing it, and what I know. External members are selected for the competition, so according to the competition. Obviously, the previous external members have expired their mandate and after the call for tenders clearly with the problem that has arisen we all know, after the election here is the new president's commission normally working. And if that commission wasn't and it wasn't going to be some kind of criminal expedition or firing squad, that's another thing. There's no reason to be. The commission is concerned, the professional service warns whether cards have been handed over, cards have not been handed over, if necessary sanctions that are there will be applied but there have been no drastic violations of the rules. So, gentlemen, either we're gonna do this sort of thing again and I'm gonna tell the commission that's gonna get such powers to run around and ask if someone got any gifts or ask a man if you bought something yourself or someone gave it to you or, well, that's funny. You have upstairs, look at the government you have space, you have a place with the president of the state where there are some gifts, registered gifts. And how can the commission know if he kept any gifts? We assume it's not because presents don't come from the trunks in the pocket or what I know from where, but gifts are given in public, so according to agreement, protocol and so forth. So that's how they end up. And I think this is also a major contribution to the perception of corruption in Croats. No one controls them, so they steal what they want, take what people want because it's not a situation. If you don't know something how it works and you think it should work differently, go ahead. Whether or not the Parliament will accept it is another matter, whether the law will change or not, we will also see it when everything that should go through is passed. So, once again, if you're talking about something, then be interested and talk about it so that the base is a law and not your own desires, or I don't know what else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36503	Thank you very much. We've got one rectification from a colleague named Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36504	A colleague Markovanovic said that I also misread the Commission's law, I guess because he didn't even read the law and claims that the former commission had ceased its mandate. I quote the provision of Article 8 of the amendment to the law of last year: "The entry into force of this Act shall end the term of office of the present members of the committee of dignitaries and public employees.". In order to stop their mandate, this should have even been introduced into the law, not that their mandate had ceased. Both the second appointment and the election of state officials are published in "The People's News", you do not need any police and, by the way, do you know whether the government has passed a regulation on the treatment of gifts, counterpart Markovanovic. Did you see that regulation?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36505	Thank you very much. A colleague named Doric reported on the replica. Here you go, fellow representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36506	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I don't think you and I and the other members of the council in the line of parliamentary deputies have the right to defend this report. We need to be correct, listen to our colleagues, see where we possibly made some moves that we can improve and fix. I was in that sense arguing in front of my club. I told the club what good moves were made, what we did, and what we didn't do. I've understood the exposure of fellow Lesar in a completely different way than you. Property cards if someone hasn't filled in, it's our concern. I always watch where we'll meet halfway, where we'll see we can really do something. The only mistake that my colleague Lesar made, and he made that grave mistake when he said that his colleague Kacan and the outside members were being compensated. That is not true, they do not receive compensation that it is unfortunate that the outside members of all our committees receive compensation and a significant one, and the people in our commission who work for hours and hours receive nothing. So that's not true, and everything else I say we have to try to find a solution to what we've heard as remarks on our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36507	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36508	Just two sentences. First, I agree that no well-intentioned criticism should be dismissed, and I was just saying because this wasn't a well-intentioned criticism, that's one thing. Second, a colleague named Lesar very often makes mistakes when he talks about other people's incomes, so he also said that the vice presidents of the club get some kind of compensation, and they don't get it. So, he likes to talk without a foundation and it turns out to be effective for the public, and in fact, we feel very uncomfortable about the others that this applies to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36509	Thank you very much. A prominent counterpart, Emil Tomljanovic, also appeared after the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36510	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to replicate to a respected colleague in that section when he spoke about the responsibility of the commission and in that sense the legality or legal justification of the report that we have today on the benches. Of course, my colleague that I agree with you that this report has been made entirely in accordance with the law and with the powers and powers that only the commission has, only often we, of course, misread these powers from the law itself. We often talked about it at committee meetings, discussed it, discussed it, so I would say to this occasion in the sense of replica that the commission is not even a commission for the origin of the property, that institute we had, not even a commission for moral verticals or anything like that, and not a body for persecution, especially criminal persecution. So the jurisdiction is precisely precise, defined by law, and the basis of this law is this report. The fact that someone would like to get some day-to-day policy out of the work of that committee to be defined or publicly presented as affairs in this or that sense, that's his problem. In this committee, therefore, there are members of the commission and outside members of the commission and parliamentary representatives who can indeed testify to both their work and the work of the president and the people involved in the work of the commission in terms of professional services, that it is extremely correct, extremely professional, since it has been appointed in this composition, to carry out all those tasks prescribed by the basis of the legal provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36511	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36512	... that it is not a group of professionals, but a group of volunteers and that a real commission job is done, direct business is determined by lawyers, determined by the professional service, that the commission cannot deal with the register of gifts, because everything in the register is registered. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] And a colleague who spoke earlier, so outside or someone else, he's talking about gifts, gifts. Where are the presents? Well, I have no idea if someone got a present or didn't get one. So if we're dealing with something, then we'll deal with something concrete, and I think all the members of the commission are very interested and doing their job well. If you think that's not the way to go, suggest, get new members, we'll all be happy to give up who we are. Here's all my colleagues. I think they're nodding their heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36513	Thank you very much. And the last replica, colleague Krunoslav Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36514	So I'd just like to supplement myself on a colleague of Markovanovic's where he talks about the commission's jurisdiction. Well, I don't think it's really a committee of any kind of investigative body and that we who act here in Parliament, mayors and commissioners, I don't think we need any investigative committee. We are the largest investigative commission of our constituents. Gentlemen, I've filled out my property card, she's on the Internet. Every citizen of this country can see it, and most importantly, I can see it in my community and they know if I'm lying or telling the truth. No scrambling. That's where we wrote it, they know I have two cars, that I have a house, a garage, they know everything. Then who are we lying to? So, there's no need for any investigative commission, you know what the duties and responsibilities of the commission are. And the property cards have all been filled out and it's all known.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36515	Replication response, colleague Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36516	Well, look, we also had in the past very zealous meeting of property cards. One of our colleagues described everything, everything inside. After that, when they noticed he was gone, they cleaned up his list. Therefore, be as detailed as possible, write down where the thief is located in which part of the house not to wander.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36517	Thank you very much. We're moving on with an individual discussion. Dear colleague Vladimir Ivkovic is up. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36518	Thank you, Your Honor. When this report is at work a year ago, and today, it is an opportunity to say a few words about the very institute of conflict of interest. In fact, Article 1 of the Law, and the practice adopted, set things up that conflict of interest is a conflict between private and public. Not between public and public, but private and public. Since there is a provision in the law that is coherent, therefore explicit, which says: officials cannot be members of the management of companies, so I would like to say a few things about this institute and its different interpretations. In particular, the Law on Conflict of Interest defines the text itself, but Article 1 defines that the whole law applies only to conflicts between public and private interests. And then we have one situation and a group of management companies, including myself, I have asked the question that was in there, which is whether the companies owned by the local self-government units, fully owned, have an element of privacy or private interest. Since it was mainly represented, since mayors can be officials, and they are holders of this local self-government interest, they can also be members of the management of these companies, especially because the institution and all other forms can be. However, as legal procedures were developed, so were these other laws, the Law on Local Self - Government, or elections. It was also indicated in the procedure that the problem was being moved to the mayors of municipalities, deputy chiefs, etc. And now, in the very procedure of amending the law, it was even proposed in one part of the committees that, in order to avoid double interpretations to be incorporated into the law that these are incompatible functions. So that the mayor and the mayor who can be a volunteer up to 10,000 cannot be a member of the company's management under the very Law on Elections. The answer to such a proposal by the Government was that it would be a shame to exclude this circle of people completely from politics in this way. And now we have a situation in which the Law on election of legislators prescribes that members of the company management cannot be members of the company management, but only if members of the company management are state-owned. The others can be. So, if we look at the roof law for the mandate and for the rights of the mandate in that case, there is now a question of whether it is a conflict or whether it is an incompatible function. If you're looking for an interpretation for an incompatible function, there are elements that can be rejected. Of course there's something behind it that carries an interpretation that it's an incompatible function. And that duality of the system under which the mandate is explicitly decided by a special law, which is the Law on Elections and that of the local and this state, and we have this situation which is somewhat different from the Law on conflict of interest. And now what? In such double situations, I think that this matter should be clarified in one way or another as soon as possible. But in such explicit interpretations as has now been given here by quoting only one article of the law without looking at the spirit of the law and the purpose of the law you wanted, I repeat the conflict between public and private. In that case, it could be concluded that it was given in the opinion. However, since the opinion itself does not have a lesson in the legal remedy, it cannot continue the legal battle over it, so it is a illogical situation in which it can appear especially because the answer to the question is that from one year of delay. So, in one situation while what was already being asked was already consumed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36519	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. We have two applications for replication. First of all, dear colleague Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36520	Thank you very much. First, I will use this replica as a public apology to the outside members of the commission. In 2004, we introduced a fee for their work into the amendments to the law and it was entered in the law. Now I have gone through all the changes again, and I have seen that in May 2008, this provision, by mistake, has been left out because it has been the subject of amendments and additions to the 2004 law and has been introduced until your election by outside members. By law, they received and were entitled to compensation. I repeat, I apologize, I simply didn't see this change because it was quite complicated... And even I see I can be wrong about Emil Tomljanovic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And two. The Commissioner here argues that the Commission is not responsible for controlling whether someone has submitted the property card, listen to this to the official who, in the report referred to in Article 7, provides false information and who does not submit a report pursuant to Article 7 of the Commission, can impose sanctions from 10 to 20000 kuna, which does not submit a report. So the zero commission's job is to control the reports submitted whether the data is correct, whether the report is submitted and whether the data are correct and the sanctions are provided for. But the rest of you can make a joke out of it that it's not a commission to question the origins of the property. It doesn't matter, you can do it. But receiving and controlling the property report is a basic task of the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36521	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Ivkovic had an extremely interesting picture of some of the problems he encountered in the practice and issues he had raised quite justified. There are countless questions like that. That's why I insisted on sitting here today when I spoke in front of the club in public. If we raise our decisions and opinions on the web site we will have a model of solution, a model of behavior, we will have less pressure on the commission, we will have the opportunity for people to look at how the case is solved, and so we will behave in case b, c, etc. Therefore, the public is extremely important to start talking about. I haven't read these fifteen questions from this flyer for no reason, and I haven't asked why we don't have a small item in the budget that we can print these flyers, that Mr. Kacan can direct these flyers to certain addresses, that we can try to solve a number of issues. Believe me, we need to start doing this systematically. Therefore, the public works, cures, websites and you know better than I do, especially you who are lawyers. I was thrilled. The U.S. Constitution is always printed with countless different judgments based on which all other judgments are passed because, once in 1892, the judge ruled, and that's how it's been tried for hundreds of years because it wasn't settled in the Constitution, but by the logic of things, it's how it works. Therefore, we must begin in this way very broadly to cover this area and give interpretations the way it really should be.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36522	Replication response, esteemed colleague Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36523	Well, one question is interpretation, the other is a concrete consequence in relation to concrete law. What's obvious is only in my county, so in Međimurje, 1/3 of the newly elected chiefs are members of exactly the companies at the moment. So, that's why I'd ask you what now? Does something have to be done here on official duty, or does it remain at the will of political competition, and how does this problem arise in the first place because it would practically mean 1/3 of the new elections? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36524	Thank you very much. We're done arguing. Finally, the Honorable President of the Commission appears. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36525	Here, I thank all the participants of the debate and will seek to adopt all your suggestions in the future work of the commission. Why didn't we put, maybe just a sentence or two about why we didn't put property cards in the report? A huge number of property cards received during this period. I've mentioned this to you in this introductory letter and they're all eventually received. The law has been in force since 2003. It seems to me that now, in every report, we've received so many and so many cards that it's as if in our high school math textbook we're going 2+2=4 again. I think that's understood, to know that what wasn't presented as a problem, that there were no problems with some of the greater ones. There were delays, but the commission reacted in this context and appealed to officials to submit reports. Almost everyone did. If we were to go for the whole, let's say now for these local elections we have over 1200 property cards. First, it will take time for them to get into the Internet, and then if we find that one number is not, we will appeal again because if we put a series of procedures on the commission, say, hundreds of procedures that would be the determination of conflicts of interest, then it would lose the meaning of its action and not be able to respond to some reports. There you go. That's it. I thank you once again, and I hope that in future work we will adopt some of your suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36526	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36527	The 2008 Commission's report on the conflict of interest, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report by the Commission on the 2008 conflict of interest is accepted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. We'll wait a few seconds because he says the answer to those causes and the reasons only the wind knows. The re-vote on the conclusion, on the 2008 Commission's report on the conflict of interest. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. I find that with 103 votes for and 8 abstentions and 1 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36528	And now given the conditions, the work of the board, the obviouss, the minutes, etc., we continue to work with the 12th item of the agenda, that is - The final draft law on health activities, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 390 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This is where you received the proposal by mail. The emergency procedure shall be applied in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which shall unite the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Health and Social Care. We also received reports from the board's session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Health and Social Care. Would the proposing representatives like to take the floor? Here you go, Doctor. Ante Zvonimir Golem, State Secretary. He's been in front of us so many times, it's our turn to know him, but for the record, we'll record that too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36529	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Allow only a few short lines to explain the need to adopt such a legal proposal and what is regulated with it. Therefore, health professions and health professions in the Republic of Croatia were started with regulation long ago in 1994 when the health care law that these health professions were laid down, and then set a certain criterion that defined it in a way where the traineeship was performed and passed a professional examination at the Ministry of Health and Social Care, that they belonged to health activities, and the other professions were joint professions in health care, i.e. in providing health care. There is further development in progress, so professions and certain professions are already regulated in the Republic of Croatia, and this House has passed laws that regulate these professions. So far, medical, dental, pharmaceutical, sister’s profession and the profession of the recipient have been regulated, as well as the profession of the physiotherapist. These professions are, in addition to the need for regulation in the Republic of Croatia, also legally regulated in such a way as to obtain automatic recognition of the moment when the Republic of Croatia enters the European Union because they are professions which are equally defined in all Member States of the European Union. However, there is also a great need to regulate all other health professions because they are regulated in the European Union as soon as they do not fall under the automatic recognition system, so that on the day of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, that this House has adopted in its regulation when a traineeship will stop and take a professional exam, there would be no legal gap, but that health activity is not regulated through a traineeship, but through criteria of quality of education and catalogues of skills which will therefore recognise belonging to a particular profession and in part of the recognition of foreign qualifications, power to set standards to meet the quality of health care. To this end, regulation was also approached, so the remaining professions in the Republic of Croatia, where they are still unregulated, therefore outside the existing laws of the other 6 professions, of which 2 professions, which are dentists and pharmaceutical technicians whose regulation is in agreement with associations that represent these esteemed professions will be regulated through, means dental technicians through the Law on dental activity where all procedures will also be carried out through the dental chamber and in the Law on Pharmaceutical Activity where pharmaceutical technicians will solve their professions through the Croatian pharmaceutical chamber. The activities of sanitary engineers, radiological and technological activities, the activities of working therapists and the activities of the medical-laboratory profession remain. It should be further noted here, because there was a major debate in the adoption of the Law on Physical Activity when working therapists engaged in physical therapy were included in this law, it was then announced that one such law would solve the problem of working therapy in Croatia at all where working therapists who would be regulated by this law will also be employed in work therapy. The Republic of Croatia has been determined through existing laws on the chamber system, meaning where in Croatia, part of public authority is given to chambers in health care, so that in the most qualitative way it can be monitored for the development of profession, permanent medical education and all other procedures essential to the profession. This law provides for a unique chamber for those four activities for the simple reason that activities that have less than 1500 to 2000 members of the profession, which cannot ensure the independence of the work of the chamber of their own, can be organised through one common chamber in such a way as to achieve their independence and, on the other hand, to present their profession. In the course of the debate on the proposal, therefore, the Health Activity Act also included a number of objections and objections from some associations and also from the remaining health chambers. During the debate, among other things and on today's committee, most if not and almost all objections have been accepted, and as such will be part of the proposal when they come to order and on amendments. So much for now, so long as after and how much further understanding I'm at my disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36530	The Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Health and Social Care. I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives, Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36531	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary. So we have before us a proposal for a Health Activity Act under P.Z.E. 390. The reason for the adoption of this proposal is the need to bring domestic legislation in line with European Union regulations on health regulation, so it is proposed to adopt this law by emergency procedure. As the esteemed secretary said, this law regulates four activities, namely the activities of sanitary engineers, medical radiological activities, the activities of working therapy and the activities of medical-laboratory diagnostics. What's being governed by this law? First, the content and mode of action is determined, then the standard of education is determined, then the conditions for carrying out activities, the following duties, then quality control and professional supervision of the work of sanitary engineers, professional graduates of radiological technology, professional graduates of working therapy, expert graduates of medical-laboratory diagnostics. This legislative proposal also regulates the establishment, as the esteemed secretary, of the Croatian Chamber of Health Professionals as an independent professional organisation with the property of a legal person and public authority. The criteria of the situation mean over 1,500 members of the profession. The aim of the establishment of the Croatian Chamber of Health Care Professionals as a professional independent organisation is to promote, represent and coordinate the interests of health workers involved in the chamber, as well as to care for the conscious, responsible and legitimate work of the same. There's also a lot of professional surveillance. In order to carry out expert supervision through the Chamber Committee as a public authority of the chamber, including around 10 regular and 5 extraordinary controls per year per particular activity, it is necessary to provide 80 thousand kuna in the national budget for 2010 and for each of the following 160 thousand. Article 87 speaks of the Ministry of Health, Croatian Sanitary Association, Croatian Association of Medical Radiology Engineers, Croatian Laboratory Medicine Association, Croatian Labour Therapy Association will establish a chamber within 6 months of the date of entry into force of this law. And in Article 89, the healthcare professionals referred to in Article 76(1) of this Act who, on the date of entry into force of this Act, carry out the relevant activity, under the rules in force so far, which we have discussed on our committee, may continue to carry out that activity, provided that they obtain authorisation for independent work in accordance with this law within two years. Now I'm going to say something individually about certain activities. So we have the first activity of sanitary engineers. The essence of the employees of sanitary engineering, means sanitary technician, sanitary engineer, graduate sanitary engineer, or master of sanitary engineering, thus becoming a preservation, improvement of individual health, family and society, and prevention of diseases carried out by means of measures to maintain the hygiene-sanitary and epidemiological level in the working and living environment. Of course, there is a need for great cooperation with other health profiles, and they need to identify, define and re-schedul environmental factors that can adversely affect individual health and the wider community and will implement general and targeted public health enlightenment with a view to improving the health of the general population. As far as the terms are concerned. It means the conditions, the way of giving, renewing and withdrawing the authorisation for independent work, means the master’s of sanitary engineering, graduate sanitary engineers, university first-graders of sanitary engineering, then professional first-graders of sanitary engineering and sanitary technicians prescribes the general act by the Croatian Chamber of Health Professionals. As regards private practice, a sanitary engineer who has the approval of independent work can perform, and today we have particularly stressed on the Health Committee that only healthcare professionals with completed graduate studies, and extremely nurses and technicians, senior dentists and physiotherapists, not professional seniors as mentioned here. As regards the medical radiological activity that we have translated today into health radiological activity in the Republic of Croatia is not regulated legally, which is significant to the situation in practice in the implementation and introduction of the quality system, as well as to employment especially in the field of nuclear medicine. According to the list in the database of health professionals of the Croatian Institute of Public Health, on 14 November 2008 in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in the entire health system in radio-technological activity, there are 1133 healthcare professionals. The most prominent are medical radiology engineers, 1103 of them. What does health radiological activity involve? It includes radiological prodeutics, use of imaging techniques, use of radiological, radiotherapy and nuclear-medical equipment and means. Then there is radiation protection, dose optimisation, clinical responsibility, activity organisation, material business, quality assessment and control, education and teaching. A large number of factors affect the requirement that medical radiological groups should meet. These factors include quality policy, patient management, consistent implementation of radiation protection measures, testing of equipment, maintenance and service of equipment, diagnostic and therapeutic protocol, process monitoring, and process analysis. If we ask the question of who has the right, i.e. what are the criteria for carrying out health radiological activities, these are the first ones: the professional graduate of radiological technology, which is included in the register of Croatian chambers of health workers and has the approval for independent work and must have a traineeship and passed a professional exam. Under 2 engineers of medical radiology who performed a traineeship and passed a professional exam. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Work therapy activity below three. It should be pointed out at the outset that, of all European Union members, labour therapy is not legally regulated in the Republic of Croatia, which has a significant impact on the situation in practice, especially on the employment of working therapists, and thus on the availability of medical services to persons in need. For the illustration, I will mention an example of the ratio of working therapists listed in this report to 100,000 inhabitants. So Croatia has 4 working therapists per 100,000, Slovenia 17, Germany 42, Denmark, Sweden 100. So there's a job to be done. My esteemed colleague Dr Milinkovic told me, that is, on the board that currently there are over 90 of them at the Employment Office, so we have a chance to fix these ratios. Data from the Croatian Institute of Public Health indicate that at the end of 2007, about 120 working therapists were employed in health institutions and about 100 were employed in social care institutions. Now the activity of working therapy, which it includes. It means a number of treatment procedures in the form of promotion, establishment, renewal, maintenance or modification of day-to-day activities whose implementation is disabled by a number of problems, whether in development, whether physical illness, aging, psychological, social, cultural or most frequently combined. The main objective of working therapy is to increase independence in the performance of daily activities and improve the quality of life. How do you get an education? It is obtained by the successful completion of professional studies, for the occupation of a professional graduate of working therapy in accordance with the applicable regulations of the Republic of Croatia, which is regulated in Article 42. And in the end, we have a medical laboratory diagnostic activity that includes this law P.Z.E. 390 to which the provisions of this law apply. First of all, the medical laboratory diagnostics' professional first graders. 2. to medical laboratory diagnostics engineers. 3. to health lab technicians. 4th to health lab technicians with completed cyto diagnostics course, cytoskriners. 5. to health lab technicians with a complete transfusion course. 6. to experts of medical laboratory diagnostics with completed cyto diagnostics, cytotechnologists or with completed transfusion medicine course. We must say that the applicable legislation regulates the medical laboratory diagnostic activity only in the section of the medical biochemical activity of the Medical Biochemical Activity Act. This proposed law now regulates what we discussed today and other areas of medical laboratory diagnostics in order of hematology, cytology, transfusiology, pathology, microbiology, immunology, serology, molecular diagnostics. This shall include standards and conditions for carrying out this activity. As far as the number of employees in this activity is concerned, there are currently 4000 and 800. As regards their standard of education, Article 60 speaks of the basic education of a health laboratory technician, that they acquire it through the successful completion of a secondary educational programme for the profession of a health laboratory technician in accordance with the applicable regulations of the Republic of Croatia. Article 61 states that the basic education for performing a medical laboratory activity is obtained by successful completion of a professional profession study by a professional graduate of medical laboratory diagnostics in accordance with the applicable regulation. And mostly that would be all about this law. By submitting 12 amendments to the Health Committee today in order to improve some of the items, all of which have been unanimously accepted. The Croatian Democratic Community supports the Proposal for a Health Activity Act under P.Z.E. 390. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36532	Thank you. SDP representative club Mr. Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36533	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. He had another law in front of him that was obviously done in a hurry and wanted to be made as soon as possible without consulting all relevant associations. We were amazed by the questions of associations and colleagues who made remarks that fellow radiologists were amazed by the text of the law in which medical radiology engineers became independent and became a pandan of specialists and radiologists, which speaks of nature that this law was done a little quickly. Following the above main remarks that we have on this law, to classify under the same cap activities that are aimed at prevention and curatives and that some changes should be made there. The issue of compliance with the European Union is the question of where the European Union has gone into legislative action in this area, so that compliance with the acquis of the European Union itself is partly not. The law also goes against the provisions of several existing health laws that I will say something about later. And what is most important is that we regret that this proposal does not involve all those who had something to say but started with the making of the law apparently under the influence of only one health care professional association. But let's go to law school. First of all, I think the Health Activity Act is a name that is not unsuitable because it does not apply to everything but only to some activities in health care, I think it is unacceptable that such a general term can refer to the wrong conclusion that all laws are regulated as well as all existing health activities. I draw attention to the incorrect use of the term activity because in the whole text of the bill, it should be used according to the national classification of occupation as an expression of interest rather than an activity. Activity is something else, occupation is something else. Let me just say that in the national occupation classification of 32 natural and health engineers and technicians there are health engineers and technicians and related professions, and here we have sanitary engineers, technicians, children, eye opticians, dental technicians, physiotherapists, veterinary technicians, pharmaceutical technicians and health therapists. Most of these occupations are not included in this law. What I would like the secretary of state to answer us, he replied in his opening part why some did, why some did not but some remained out anyway. When we talk about the use of an expression of interest instead of activity, the particular interest is a set of jobs and work tasks which are so related and technologically related to their content and their kind and their related to each other that they are carried out by an executive who has the right skills and skills, so it is not an activity. We specifically comment on the standard of education because the description of the activities and competences of individual professions provided for in the text is general and without clear distinction for the field of work. For example, mid-professional engineers, high-tech engineers, first-graders and more professional equipment. They are also unevenly regulated so that, for example, Article 3 detailed activities of sanitary engineers are arranged until Articles 20 and 39 contain equally precise and detailed descriptions of the work and activities of radiology technicians or working therapy. Thus, it is obvious that the law was made under the influence of the Sanitary Engineers Association. We draw particular attention to the lack of sufficient attention in the description of the activities of medical laboratory activity because persons from this activity also work in the field of microbiology, haematology and cytology, should be clearly regulated in particular as regards basic training for those independent professions. I also believe that the title should be brought into line with other laws, in particular the Law on academic and professional names and academic degrees, the list of academic titles of academic degrees, as well as the Bologna process. We all swear on the Bologna process, I think the Bologna process should be in this law too, so we don't have to bring in certain additions and amendments to the law after a few months. What particularly bothers me in this law is that the envisaged text of the law provides for the full independence of the activities of sanitary engineers, medical radiology engineers, working therapy, medical laboratory diagnostics, on several occasions the Croatian medical chamber and other chambers have made observations that this is an unfounded request because it de facto does not correspond to the reality in which we are. There's Professor Hebrang, and I don't think he'd want his medical radiologist reading an X-ray and this law makes it possible. When we talk about serious labour violations, it would also be necessary to bring this more closely into line with the current legislation where a health institution is responsible for serious infringements of work responsibilities or for the doing of bad works and the question remains how to deal with it under the Labour Act and other labour law regulations. In the article quality control I think that part of the law should either be omitted or simply related to the Health Security Quality Act that we have adopted in the Assembly. The third resilient thing of this law is private practice. Private practice is something that is determined by law and the law tells us that private health practice can be performed by healthcare professionals with completed university graduate studies and extremely medical nurse, technician, senior dentist, dental technician and physiotherapist, the question remains what we will do with health technicians in the field of epidemiology, sanitary technicians and whether they have the right to have private practice. Under this law, they can do what creates problems for us and in further legislation. And finally, the health care workers' chamber is a chamber that would cover all the employees covered by this law. However, I am a health worker and Professor Hebrang, whether it means that we must be in that chamber or a colleague Milinkovic, a colleague of Adanic, could all be in the health chamber, we are all health workers. Therefore, I think we should change the name of the chamber and bring it into the normative state of society. From all of this, the SDP will not support this bill unless these things are corrected by law or amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36534	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36535	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely, I will only ask here one question to the secretary of state which I received a request two, three days ago by the chamber of sanitary engineers and technicians of the Croatian Association for Sanitary Engineering in which all of us are asked the following. What is visible from the record of the 88th session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia under paragraph 2 of the draft law is addressed to the emergency procedure for compliance with the EU acquis. That can't possibly be right. Namely, they claim that we did not comply with the European acquis. We informed the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Croatia in June 2006 that this issue has been resolved in the European Union on what we are delivering to you the official EU document in the attachment. Otherwise it is also available by clicking on the link between the EU Commission's position on sanitary engineering. I would only ask Mr Secretary of State, given that he has received this letter of theirs, whether what they then proposed is respected or whether this law is really in line with the law or with the legal property of the European Union as regards sanitary engineering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36536	Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36537	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. We have before us a Law that I see taken certain different views, perhaps because we have brought it by emergency procedure, so there has been no opportunity for some major debates, but the ministry has conducted previous discussions, consultations with chambers, with the Croatian Medical Assembly and its sections and installed almost all remarks. Some of us have been installed today on the Health Committee. These were the remarks of the chamber we installed as amendments, and I believe that the Secretary of State will accept and support these amendments. What's this about? It is a law that regulates an area that has not been regulated so far, which is that certain health activities that are not covered by the current Health Protection Act, the current special laws, the pharmacy, doctors, sisterhood, etc., all of which put one void. There is a certain number of activities that are not regulated, are not covered and are not standardised. The European Union is looking for standardisation and what? Standardisation of conditions of performance of all activities, standardisation of education in this field of activity, standardisation of permanent education, standardisation of quality control supervision and standardisation, and ultimately harmonisation of the conditions of private practice. This is defined for a number of activities, but there are four gaps left. This is the activities of sanitary engineers, radiological activity, medical biochemical diagnostics and work therapy activities. For these four activities, this law fills that void. In addition to setting all standards and conditions for the implementation of practices, activities, standards of education, permanent improvement, quality control and supervision, determines and joins a common chamber. In this joint chamber there will be classes in which each of these activities will have its own class and thus be organised professionally. I think it is a good solution to this legal gap that has been created in legislation and good compliance with European Union rules. An entire series of remarks has been accepted. I'd just say, for example. As regards private practice as you have spoken, indeed Articles 145, 146, 147 and 148. The health care law states that private practice can be carried out by healthcare professionals with completed university degree studies, and only an extremely medical nurse, medical technician, senior dentist and physiotherapist. That is why we, by amendment of the Committee, went into a change of law in a way that articles which determine the possibility of private practice in these four activities are being thrown out. In other words, there are no, except in the case, and there are several such cases, where they have already been given the right to private practice. Which way and how I don't know, but we're not going to retroactively, of course, end it right, but it's really just a couple of cases. So that demand of the chamber is also presented here in individual discussions, consummated. We also made some linguistic changes, such as Medical radiological activity is not a good concept, because this law does not talk about medical activities as a profession, but health care activities to the organization, so we said health radiological and technological activity, because it is logical and consistent. Some more nomotechnical changes have been made in these amendments, and I believe that this has actually consumed the demands of all those who, due to this speed, may have arrived a little too late, but are in any case consumed in these amendments that I believe the secretary of state will accept. That is why I believe that it is necessary to accept it with the amendments of the Committee and it gives one whole that really regulates these four activities and makes them consistent with the European Union. This is very important because the time for major changes is coming soon because of the coordination with the European Union. There won't be a state exam, there won't be an internship, etc., so if we don't coordinate, it might happen to us to get maybe those workers from abroad who don't even meet the minimums. Here it is, however, framed in European frameworks that do not fit into a system that is not well organised, which can have negative facts or a system that has no control. I believe that with this we have covered these defects, so to speak conditionally, in law and that the quality of health care with this will be significantly improved. That's why I suggest you accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36538	Thank you. Final review, Secretary of State Ante Zvonimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36539	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. A few questions have been asked, so allow me, I would only briefly answer them although most of the part in the discussion is answered, but there is one misunderstanding, today I have already explained. The Ministry of Health and Social Care was opposed when the Association of Citizens was established under the Law on Associations of Citizens, called the Croatian Association of Sanitary Engineers, when she sought to change the name and was named Croatian Association of Sanitary Engineers. Croatian health care has been focused on a chamber approach, so the Croatian health care law regulates chambers and surrenders to the law, so the public authority of its chambers in its work. The chambers that are therefore established in health care are chambers that are established according to health laws. The Law on Citizens' Associations could not have put public authority in this way meant when someone just got the name of the Chamber of Sanitary Engineers, while at the same time it was a association of citizens established under the Law on Associations. So there is also the fact that the bill itself did not state Croatia, so it is called the Croatian Association of Sanitary Engineers-Comor of Sanitary Engineers and Technicians, but at the time, the Ministry took the obligation and gave a clear message about it, the establishment of the Chamber will call on that association to make its contribution and to the members and associations that protect interests and fight in some way for the interests of their profession, to participate equally in the establishment of the chamber. But we can't set up a situation for the chamber to establish a chamber in the health system. For purely termological reasons, it wasn't that kind of thing. On the other hand, I think I gave it up so I'll repeat, the public powers passed on to chambers will regulate among other quality control, regulate among other things many other parts, standards by which we will be able to say that by finally passing this law and by two other amendments to the laws that will regulate dentists and pharmaceutical technicians. In the Republic of Croatia, professions are regulated in the way that this has been done in the European Union countries with the fact that here we expect by the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Qualifications as well as under Chapter 3 of the negotiations that those five professions that fall under automatic recognition from the field of health, that this automatic recognition can and can be obtained. You have to say, and it's clear there, it's a normal human category. And when we passed, or proposed, and the Croatian Parliament passed the Law on Physical Activity, there were also few dissonant views on whether physiotherapy should be given some kind of work or something. It was even on the side of certain chambers and protests. On the other hand, however, we do not need to escape the facts, and at that time we have spoken, for example, working therapists who are included in this law, where it is clear that if they engage in physical therapy, they fall under that law. At that time, we have already said that we did not equalise the physiotherapists with working therapists, but that working therapists, within their power, will achieve their profession towards the example of Europe and their interests through their work, through their chambers, and as a consequence, is one of these laws. That it is an activity, not a profession itself, says the title of the law by saying that nomotechnically speaking if it is not the happiest but it is certainly the only possible at the moment, and the first article of the law itself clearly determines who this law applies to and as such will not create confusion because, since older laws that exist as the Law of Medicine, the Law of Sisterhood, which was the same when it was passed, were strong dissonant tones, so the Law on dental activity clearly and loudly define who belongs to and who belongs to which chamber. As far as amendments are concerned, we will vote on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36540	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal for a health care law. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Health and Social Care and by representative Romana Jerkovic. I ask Secretary of State Ante Plasimir Golem to show himself about the proposed amendments. Amendments of the Committee on Health and Social Care. Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36542	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36543	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36544	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36545	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36546	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36547	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36548	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36549	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36550	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36551	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36552	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36553	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36554	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36555	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36556	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36557	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36558	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36559	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36560	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36561	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36562	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36563	And the 12th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36564	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36565	It becomes an integral part of the law. And the amendment of Madam Representative Romana Jerkovic. Amendment 1 to Article 82
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36566	The amendment is not accepted. There are therefore numerous both professional and civil associations of citizens acting in the field of profession to which this legislative proposal applies. It is clear and clear to say that they will all participate in the establishment of that chamber contrary to this law. However, there is no need to define all associations as founders of the legal proposal itself, but with the Ministry of Health a defined association which has technically and helped to draft this law but will also help to establish a health chamber.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36567	Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36568	Thank you very much. There is really no reasonable and logical reason, Mr. Secretary of State, for professional associations that exist in Croatia to be left out of this law for many years. The Croatian laboratory association is the most numerous national professional association of medical laboratory workers with over 404 members. Croatian Association of Cito Technologists, Croatian Association of Sanitary Engineering, Chamber of Sanitary Engineers, gathers over 50% of graduated sanitary engineers. If you do not accept this amendment, there is indeed a question of whose interests you are protecting. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36569	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the second Mrs. Romane Jerkovic to Article 87.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36570	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36571	Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36572	It's pointless. I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36573	He's withdrawing the amendment. Thank you. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Health Activities. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 89 votes for, 10 abstentions, 7 against the final bill on health care activities in the text, as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted. We are going to the next point - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 391 The Proposer is Government. Amendments to the end of the debate carried out by the Committees on Law, Local and Regional Self-Government and Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Science and Culture. State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture Zoran Šikic will further explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36575	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The law on the protection and preservation of cultural goods is a system law that regulates all important issues related to the protection and preservation of cultural goods. It was adopted in 1999 and was significantly complemented by provisions in line with the legal acquis of the European Union concerning the arrangements and controls of cross-border transport, cultural goods and the prevention of illegal cross-border traffic. The amendments and additions proposed here are further harmonised with European legislation, with regulations and with areas of public procurement, thus fulfilling the obligations set out in Chapter 5 of the procurement negotiations. With this area of European legislation, at the end of last year the Law on concessions in which... this matter, so now the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods is horizontally aligned with that law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is a new regulation of the concession procedure in those proceedings, as well as of other issues related to the concession. In addition to harmonising with European legislation, the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods should be aligned with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia which has changed in the meantime since the adoption of this law. These are all known changes to the laws on local, regional, regional self-government and the Law on the City of Zagreb, in which municipal, city and county heads of the municipality were abolished, and their tasks were taken over by municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb. The new law on scientific activity and higher education and the law on academic and professional titles and academic degrees then regulates the species in a new way and acquires higher education, as well as academic professional titles and academic degrees. This is adapted to a provision that prescribes a professional preparation of a person who may be an inspector for the protection of cultural goods, i.e. a senior inspector for the protection of cultural goods. Furthermore, the new Criminal Law empowers the authorities of the state administration to be prosecutors in a misdemeanour procedure, and in accordance with these amendments, the law allows the Ministry of Culture to submit, through the inspector of the protection of cultural goods, indictments that are being initiated and to issue infringement orders when a breach of the provisions of the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods is found in its work, supplementing the powers of the inspector for the protection of cultural goods. And finally. A new Law on Spatial Planning and Construction has been passed, which in many ways is touched by the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. These rules should certainly be harmonised that, in practice, in their implementation, no problems would arise either in spatial planning and construction or in the protection of cultural heritage, which is a specific and particularly valuable part of the space and building fund, in practice and in their implementation. As regards amendments submitted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Proposer accepts one and the other amendments. And according to the above, since it is a matter of technical harmonisation of the respected lady and gentlemen of the MPs here, please, on behalf of the motionor, to support this final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36576	Thank you. The Committee on Law, Local and Regional Self-Government, Education, Science and Culture. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Šima Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36577	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, and immediately in the introduction, I stress that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this law. Why? Because the adoption of this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods will primarily bring this law into line with the amendments that took place in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. These are amended laws of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Law on the City of Zagreb, the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, the Law on Academic and Professional Names and Academic Classes, the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Law on concessions and the Criminal Law. We are passing a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods in an emergency procedure in order to comply with the Law on concessions, which is particularly important in order to comply with the regulation of the European Union in the field of public procurement. This implements the obligations set out in chapter 5 of the negotiations, which is public procurement. To implement this law, it is not necessary to provide additional resources in the state budget, nor in the budgets of municipalities, cities and counties, also in the City of Zagreb. I stress that compliance with the seven laws already passed and 8. The concession law. Repeat, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36578	Individual debate, Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36579	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I somehow can't avoid in my discussions the frame of my mental set and the way I think about some things, and that way this time, I'm going to talk from an engineer's point of view about this problem. Not only because I'm an expert, but also because much of this problem is affecting the problems of architecture and construction, of course, construction. But from another frame, and it's also language. I'm very hard to manage in the language of lawyers, and there always, I'm sorry to tell you this, but I know that you're continuing to have a certain writing problem, but a lot of it when you're reading is simply not clear enough and clear or not engineeringly accurate, and probably in the legal frameworks it's welcome to be able to interpret so as to be. In any case, I support the adoption of this law. I think that the adoption of this law is necessary and not only for formal reasons to comply with other laws, but also because this law regulates certain things that have not been solved in the best way so far, and now they have been solved in a much better way. However, some small things, as nomotechnical and as thoughtful as they are, I simply do not understand as in the sentence of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Law on Spatial Planning as well as the Construction Act ceases to apply... with that legal terminology contained in these regulations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I guess in the new law in the regulations of this law or contained in these, it just bothers me, look at that side down at the bottom. It's just not clear as a sentence. Of course, I said why I support this law. Because it adapts to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, the concession procedure on cultural goods is detailed, and the law is in line with the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. An infringement procedure is in place and a more detailed regulation is being made on who can become an inspector for the protection of cultural goods. What I would like to comment on and what I do not think is particularly clear, I am talking about areas of special character, i.e. areas of protected cultural and historical integrity. The title is practically changing, in fact only practically adds a solution to the conditions of construction, otherwise the first part of the title remains the same. What I do not find quite linguistically clear, nor meaningful, in Article 60, as well as in the area of the spatial borders of cultural goods. I don't know what's between cultural goods or within the borders of cultural goods. I simply don't understand what the spatial borders of cultural goods are all about. Probably something, it goes on to something that was before, but the border is something that defines, I don't understand as the concept of a location or anything. And it's interesting the same point to make it clearer, it's articles 60 and 61. So in Article 60, this is a matter of spatial boundaries. But as it seems to me, the Legislative Committee is also often referred to as competent, and I am beginning to lose track of what it refers to, but in Article 60, for taking action on the immovable cultural good. I don't quite understand what the shops are, I guess they're building, reconstructing, supplementing, but it doesn't say. It would be good instead of the store if it wasn't the subject of the shop, but what actually happens is why a location permit is issued and it's probably a construction, reconstruction, replacement, repair, reconstruction, etc. Instead of actions that are probably legal, but simply not as acceptable, as well as in the area of spatial borders that I said was it within the spatial borders or cultural goods. And speaking, the mandatory location permit of the body responsible for issuing it is required to obtain specific conditions for the protection of cultural goods. Will some special provisions define that when, why, how long and how? Is there a rule that will say that because it just stays in the air? I'm an interested investor, I don't know if I will, when I will, why I will and in what way. That's a little questionable to me. Probably bound to the law from before, but it's hard to follow, you know, you know, change something for this, so it's a little confusing for me. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Is that it, or is it? I don't know what it means. I think this is how some expressions are made, some fine corrections that don't change in substance, but they're more precise to understand. And any amendments and additions to the law, no matter what comes because of compliance with something else is also an opportunity for some other things. I will only mention now, not as an amendment to this law, but I am using the opportunity to remind you of the basics of the protection of the cultural goods of the Republic of Croatia, it is a matter of supervision of this award. There are material goods that are rewarded with a supervisory award, the Ministry of Culture gives the prize, and they are a contribution to the culture of the Republic of Croatia. I think that good one should automatically go into the category of this one that's being talked about here. The Supervisory Prize, which we have already proposed as a committee, is likely to be worried about the necessary additional funds to protect it, but should not simply be entered into the category. There are many objects of architecture and infrastructure that have won such a prize and represent indeed the cultural goods of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36580	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36581	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, I will be very brief and undoubtedly we will all support this proposal for a law on the protection of cultural goods. He's technically in sync about concessions of spatial order and coordination with county, with local self-government, but I'm going to stop a little bit just to listen to me. I'd really like to take this opportunity to start something a little wider, because this is an emergency procedure, so the vice president will allow me to spend two minutes on one general approach to this case. I have been asked by several cultural workers from Rijeka to mention something here that I have talked about before, which is that the protection of cultural goods must certainly not obstruct their economy and take advantage of especially for tourist purposes etc. You'll see what's going on. Namely, in many of our museums there are beautiful objects found in digs etc., virtually closed for centuries in some boxes, dark spaces, etc., instead of making replicas, casts, to be made by professional people, to give concessions to the production of these objects, to offer tourists, instead of those ugly nails, storks, storks, I don't know of baseless some ugly coat of arms of wood or I don't know what not. We have something to admire, we have what to offer, we can and we need to clearly release these objects, their replicas in various qualities of expensive metals further. Because I'll tell you only in the case of excavations in the settlement, or in the settlement of a stranger in Vinodol. It's about dozens and dozens of beautiful objects, decorative objects, the 10th century which we can absolutely boast in European terms, and they're wondering if they'll eventually be able to get a concession one day and produce these replicas in order to really contribute to the quality of our tourist offer, especially in the production of original souvenirs. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36582	Thank you. Does the Secretary of State want a final review? Yeah. Mr. Zoran Šikić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36583	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In short, I thank you in the first row for these suggestions and remarks, although it means the final bill, definitely the part that is highlighted in the debate of Agent Roshin. I think that certain clarifications and coordination between this engineering part and the legal part can also be achieved by consistent interpretation of how specifically within this framework which defines the law and through the implementation may make some clarifications. I can only highlight the example means protecting a fixed monument that through a simple solution, if sometimes it is an object then usually space is defined by the border, by the space around the fixed monument itself. Yeah. In this regard, as regards the taking of actions on an immovable cultural good and protected cultural historical units, for which a local authorisation is required, the body issuing that local authorisation must obtain special conditions for the protection of cultural goods in the same procedure. On the other hand, for actions for which only a solution to the conditions of construction is issued, in particular the conditions of protection of cultural goods are required to obtain an investor himself before applying for works. That would be brief in this section. And when it comes to concessions, i.e. the possibility of this segment being used for concrete tourist commercial purposes, I also think that here and through this law, the harmonisation of the Law on concessions will still give the possibility that the normal goal of protecting it now... And we interpret through this law, not just passive protection, but not being our own purpose, but that it's active protection, protection through use, and our interpretation is that the law, this law, these amendments of the law, will not hinder us in this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in addition, there will certainly be more debate in due time and around some other segments because it is here, so it is ultimately a final proposal through an emergency procedure, given the technical harmonisation, but many other elements are being considered and are definitely more valuable suggestions that we will be able to consider as part of some future changes and additions to this law. Thank you very much once again and here I thank you in advance for supporting this final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36584	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendment committees and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find it unanimous with 110 votes for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods in the text as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36587	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on transport in line and occasional coastal maritime transport amends the law adopted in 2006 and whose basic paper was the introduction of a concession of lines in public coastal maritime transport in a way that equalises market access conditions for all Croatian shipowners through a public tender, regardless of the ownership structure with a view to liberalising the market in a system of linking Croatian islands with land and islands. This same law established a regulatory body, an agency as a non-profit legal person whose primary task is to conduct tenders, or concession individual lines, then adequately monitor the quality of transport services, regulation of public service prices, and control of costs which achieves the implementation of the principle of transparency in the spending of budgetary resources, state support to cover the loss of non-performable lines connecting Croatian islands. All contracts relating to the award of concessions are primarily of professional technical nature and require day-to-day control and supervision of the shipowner who received the concession, primarily for the purpose of verifying, or controlling, the funds of the state budget. In its work so far, the agency itself, which practically implements the existing Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime transport, is successfully performing these tasks, and for the reasons that the administrative board of the Agency is composed of representatives of the Government, representatives of shipowners, representatives of the trade union and the Chamber of Commerce, which, in practice, in the work of the Agency itself, which implements the law, is manifested by the tripartiteness in making essential decisions which are practically affecting this important segment of the maritime economy. On the basis of the existing law, the agency itself carried out a tender and made a concession of 20 lines, and as the government found by its decision that there are 56 state lines connecting the Croatian islands, it remained to concession another 36 lines, which will be concessioned by the agency itself after the law adopts this law on amendments and additions to the Transport Act by line and occasional coastal transport. Otherwise, I would like to point out the importance and importance of this linear and occasional coastal maritime transport that around 12 million passengers and about 3 million vehicles were transported in total traffic in the last year. It's practically a 3% increase compared to 2007. In 2008, what is important for the emphasis is that the scope of navigation itself has been increased, new navigation routes have been introduced towards Croatian islands and that there has been an increase in the number of additional starting return trips per day for a total of 100,000 nautical miles. And to show what those 100,000 nautical miles mean, it's about 12 return trips between Split and New York. Thus, in 2008 compared to 2007, there was an increase in the number of starting return trips to Croatian islands, which served as a function of connecting Croatian islands. For the entire maritime integration system of Croatian islands in 2008, 437 million kuna were allocated, and the planned budget in 2009 amounted to 417 million kuna. With these amendments to the law in the first place, we want to bring the existing law in line with the adopted Law on concessions which entered into force on 1 January 2009, and it is practical to adopt that law and amend this Law on transport in line and occasional coastal maritime transport. The proposal for this law therefore deletes all items which were contrary to the Law on concessions and thus submits legal assumptions for the award of new concessions, i.e. to call for tenders on the remaining 36 lines connecting the Croatian islands. The second reason for the amendment of the existing law is the harmonisation, i.e. the terminology of the harmonisation between this law and the Law on the provision of services in tourism. And the third important reason is certainly, to settle those issues which, in the implementation of the existing law, showed insufficiently good solutions, and then we clearly took advantage of the possibility of amending the law so that these undefined or not the best solutions could be fully aligned with this amendment of the law. This relates primarily to the definition of the operation of transport in the event of exceptional circumstances, as well as the possibility of replacing the ship during the duration of the concession itself. So, we propose that the Croatian Parliament, in exactly the text proposed by the Government, accept these amendments to the law that I repeat to the greatest extent, is changed because of compliance with the Law on concessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36588	Thank you. The Committee on Law, Maritime Affairs, Transport and Connections, Local and Regional Self-Government. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Attorney Gary Cappelly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36589	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Director. Therefore, on 10 March 2006, the Council of the Republic of Croatia adopted the Law on the transport of line and occasional coastal transport as a key basis for the long-term settlement of the island's land connection issues, all in order to create better living conditions on islands and promote their development. The main objective of this law was the economic development of the island and the creation of the necessary infrastructure and other preconditions for the development of the island with continuous and regular transport of ships of appropriate capacity and species. In 2008, it was transported as we heard over 12 million passengers in maritime passenger transport in the Adriatic and around 3 million vehicles, which represents an increase compared to 2007 by about 3%. In 2008, the volume and navigation increased, new navigation routes were introduced towards individual islands, which conditioned that the number of additional trips was increased also in miles, as well as in the number of drivings compared to the previous years. Budgetary means subsidized to reflect the line of maritime transport for which some 371 million kuna were spent in 2007, and in 2008. 436.8 million kuna, and 417 million kuna for this year. In 2008, a concession law was adopted governing the award and termination of the concession and legal protection. According to it, the concession procedure prescribed by that law applies after 1 January 2009 so that it is necessary to agree these two laws as soon as possible. The harmonisation of the law that we are discussing today with the Law on concessions has been carried out in a way that has not been introduced in the draft law, i.e. the prescribed provisions of the Law on concessions, but has already been amended or deleted in the proposal for a law governed by the Law on concessions or referred to their application. The proposal for a law also provides for issues which, in the two-year application of the law, have shown that they are not fully regulated or that they should be otherwise or more clearly prescribed. Since public coastal coastal maritime transport indeed had one specific activity, it was necessary to standardise and define situations of exceptional circumstances resulting in the inability to carry out further transport, whether for the sake of inability on the part of shipowners, concessionaires or some other circumstances such as bridge reconstruction, port or similar events. Therefore, the coastal liner transport system must be continuously carried out because each interruption leads to a cut-off, i.e. decoupling of the island to the mainland. For this reason, the concession provider must have in such exceptional circumstances the possibility of contracts to carry out temporary transport without conducting a long-term procedure of selecting concessionaires on the way of a public tender and the like. And only during such circumstances. Otherwise, there would be a fall in the island's land-connection system, which would ultimately result in far-reaching consequences. It is precisely for the reasons of rationalisation on individual lines that transport can also be carried out in the winter period by a low capacity ship resulting in far reduced budget spending, fuel costs, crew costs and all other things that go into those costs. And the same does not affect the quality and regular operation of transport. In this case, the costs are calculated according to the actual costs of the replacement ship. In all such situations, it could not be possible to maintain a public transport system without a ship-replacement institute where there is a very reasonable reason for the same. The introduction of ship replacement options facilitates the achievement of the most important objective, which is an effective organisation and the constant maintenance of a line coastal maritime transport system, which, with the supervision of law enforcement, is the most important task of the Linear Maritime Transport Agency as a concession provider for state lines. The regulatory body, therefore, such as the Agency for Coastal Line and Maritime Transport, does not have much larger and more developed maritime countries, and its main task is to monitor the quality of use of the funds that the Republic of Croatia has allocated to maintain the island's maritime connections with the mainland, and in today's work, the agency has certainly done this task very well. The first and most significant job of the agency was the launch of public tenders and the award of concessions on the first 13 high-speed and one classic shipping line. This is a major piece of work and one of the objectives of liberalisation in coastal maritime transport, which is to encourage Croatian shipmen to participate in maintaining this important system that has so far rested in the Adriatic and create conditions for an equal competition during Croatia's membership of the European Union. To conclude, how the concession procedure of 1 January 2009 was subject to the concession law was necessary to remove from the law any provision contrary to the concession law and thus create legal assumptions for the granting of new concessions on lines which have not yet been concessioned. In addition, the issue of exceptional circumstances and the open possibility of replacing ships during the duration of the concession is fully regulated when there are justified reasons and this does not affect the quality and regular operation of public transport on a given line. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will therefore support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36590	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Puljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36591	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Law on transport in line and occasional coastal maritime transport was adopted in 2006, amended in 2009 to comply with the amendments to the Law on local and regional and regional self-government. By then, the concession for county or local lines had been the headship of the county, city or municipal and since then it was the County Assembly, city or municipal council. This law created a new system of public coastal maritime transport, or legal framework for its creation and application, in which the possibility of market and competition in the exercise of this public activity in the territorial sea and inland sea waters of the Republic of Croatia was opened. This sought and achieved a better and regular connection between the inhabited islands and the mainland and the islands with day-to-day connections in both directions, thus achieving better living conditions for islanders and strengthening the possibility of island development. In order to ensure this, shipbuilding support is provided for because without it it would not be possible to ensure the continuity and regularity of public transport on certain lines at predetermined transport prices, the quality of transport with additional services and ships of appropriate capacity and type. By giving concessions based on today's public activity along the Adriatic of the largest passenger ship on the Adriatic, private shipowners have also found interest in the Republic of Croatia and have concentrated 16 fast-boat lines, two boat lines and one ferry line to date. The State budget subsidies for the maintenance of maritime transport, which I have already stated because of insufficient profitability, necessarily financed or supported from the budget, amounted to 371 million kuna in 2007 and 436 million in 2008. 2009 is planned amounting to 417 million kuna. The law provides for conditions and means of transport, i.e. conditions for granting concessions and the procedure itself is more detailedly regulated by the Regulation on the conditions and procedure of granting a concession to carry out public transport in line with coastal maritime transport. The legislative proposal that lies before us today with the final draft of the law is proposed to comply with the Law on concessions adopted in 2008. The harmonisation has been carried out in this legislative proposal in such a way that the proposal has deleted or amended the provisions set out in the said concessions Act or is referred to its application. In cases where the Law on concessions provides that a particular regulation can be regulated in the proposed amendments and additions to the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime transport, this is also done if it is assessed as necessary. Questions that have also been addressed through the two-year application of the current legal practice have also been identified as requiring complementarity, clearer or different manner of arrangement. Such issues as are covered by this amendment and complemented by the issue of exceptional circumstances and the possibility of replacing the ship during the duration of the concession. I believe that the emergency procedure is justified because new concessions for public transport in line coastal maritime transport can only begin after the harmonisation of this law with the Law on concessions. And that's why I'm going to support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36592	Thank you. Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36593	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am again with my debate this time on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Liner and Periodic Coastal Traffic. This law is only a formality, although it is tasked to comply with others, but the Law on Line and Intermediate Coastal Maritime Transport is extremely important for the Republic of Croatia because of what Croatia has and that is a lot of sea and over a thousand islands. Therefore, maritime transport is extremely important for the lives of Croatian citizens. And sometimes maritime traffic was important not only because of the island's connection, it was also important to connect cities and places along the coast from one border to another border, there was no highway and the other depended on boats. Of course, construction of new roads has made many lines of fallout unnecessary, not only on land but on islands. By introducing tractors and cars, by building roads on islands, things have changed. But there is still that constant and eternal trio of passengers, ships, and ports. If there are enough passengers, if there are enough ships, if there are any ports the ships would land in. And there's something like that... That's one line that says no, did I say right? [[The speaker speaks Latin, he doesn't understand.]] That's one sentence that says you don't need a boat to Milna because there's no passengers. And there's another sentence, there's no passengers because there's no boat. So, it doesn't have a boat because there are no passengers depending on where you put it because, the problem will be solved. In any case, that large part of the long-distance traffic and the large part of the traffic to the island has been resolved, I say partly by building the highway, now and by highways, partly by introducing ferry and road by islands, but what remains is still not enough, but very little solved, it is a matter of connection between islands. It is shown every year as extremely important, especially in the tourism segment, although, of course, it has already been done a lot. But I would like to take advantage of the occasion by speaking about this law to mention some topics both for the public and for the concern and the note that it is done more. Mr. Secretary of State said 12 million passengers in traffic, which is an extremely large figure. I can say that almost 1/3 of these figures are in Split's port in international and local traffic, so almost 1/3, as much as this is extremely important. But the number of passengers might have increased if there were more ships again, because on the way, for example, Milna is on her way to Brač to reach Solta and Hvar and Vis, to Korčula and Lastov. And so, by building a little mall somewhere along the way, that number of links between the islands would have increased significantly, and the weather would have decreased. Why am I saying that? Because some railways may not be so profitable in a large boater, but they may be a smaller boater or when connecting ports with one another, they could become a very interesting job. Of course, on that journey if you live, if you have a house in Starigrad then your entrance to the Kuminar port extends your way to Starigrad by 20 minutes, but you could also increase by a number of passengers who would have landed in Milna or boarded in Milna. This government has done a tremendous amount for both islands and for connecting the island and the mainland and for connecting the island to each other. We have a lot of examples that prove it. I already mentioned once how much mol, the new mall, mol... Changed the conditions of dwellings in Rogac, a new port, a new mul or part of the port in Sumartin was also made, but it is still not so functional because it has not been resolved at the same time in Makarska. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's necessary to make ships there too. All this together creates a job with as many concessionaires who could take over the lines, and therefore the harmonisation of this law with the concession law is extremely important to open the door to such traffic, not only in the legal sense of regulation, but also the opening of the chance for concessionaries to appear. Thanks to these extraordinary efforts by the Croatian government that really took care of the islands and changed the consciousness of life on the island, increased that quality, standard, etc., they can show one of their own personal satisfaction that the islands held the chance of being islands without having to be connected by a bridge like some others. I know, I'm talking about islands that are really surrounded by the sea, not an island that's surrounded by land, like we have two, right? In any case, those 100,000 miles almost what Mr. Bacic said shows how much more has been taken away, which means how many more tracks have been made or how much more frequency of connecting the island to the mainland. That's how many miles he says. The frequency and availability, but also the introduction of other concessionaries into public transport, proved at least on the occasion of the private concessionaire who drove to Supetar, that the price of the ferry ticket to Supetar was lower and that with such one competition, which enables and reduces the price, or increases the opportunities and becomes more and more expensive. At the same time, Jadrolinija as the largest state-owned liner each time works better and better ship, an increasingly high-quality ship, so that the comfort on those ships is getting bigger and bigger and no longer bumping down into some stacks to play on the cards, now it can be quite nice in the salons to play on the cards. They used to smoke and no smoking, now they're all smoke-free, smoke-only on the outer decks. All together, this quality is getting better and bigger, but also the speed and what is extremely important, the rich structure of transportation to the island so that you can choose ferry, fast ships, catamarans, hydroglisers and those that allow you to quickly get where you intend to go. Subsidisation, maintenance... Transport is certainly extremely important for the prominent because it helps those railways that are not as profitable as Supetar, Split, also stay in circulation, to be used. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That ranged from 300 to over 430, 440 million kunas a year, this year tears less, but very nearly tear less, about 6.7% seems to me to match this if somewhere around 417 million, as much as I remember from the material I read. It certainly takes a fee, rewarding what the law provides for, that due to exceptional circumstances, the ship's replacement may also be introduced, regardless of the concession as it is given, because we are witnessing that these things happen in life. It is also important that, in exceptional circumstances, another concessionary or other ship can be introduced, without long-term procedure and public tendering, if this requires extraordinary circumstances, so that we do not subject to formalities. Therefore, the replacement of a ship which, compared to the period of the year and with the needs of the number of passengers to be transported, may also have a smaller vessel in the annual period when there is not much traffic, which is also reduced by a reduction in costs, i.e. by giving a subsidy for that. In any case, it is a much more rational co-financing than it was before, and therefore this bill needs to be supported, proposed for adoption because it is not only formal harmonisation, but also a substantial substantial improvement in line maritime transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36594	Thank you very much. Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36595	Thank you very much, Vice President. The Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable Captain, colleagues and colleagues. In March this year, the islands of the Croatian Adriatic in strong competition, according to readers of the Spanish edition of a magazine belonging to a group of prestigious world magazines, were declared the most beautiful islands in the world. Here's how I'm gonna start this debate. Recently, at this session of the Parliament, we had a report on the effects of the Law on Islands and saw that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, together with units of local and regional self-government, invested considerable financial resources over a billion kuna a year, and in the last year 1.7 billion kuna, among other things, in the modernisation and construction of state, county and local sea ports, ports and ports. The construction and reconstruction of ports invested 58 million kuna, 436 million kuna for maritime transport, and 19 million kuna for road transport. In total, 520 million kuna has been invested in transport infrastructure in the past year. The opportunity is also mentioned that over the past period many ports and ports have been renovated, 54 of them, access roads, but also the renewed fleet of Jadrolinija. These were also assumptions for an increased number of ferry lines to 56 connecting 52 inhabited islands. All this is also done in order to increase port capacity, but also to improve service quality. In the integration of Croatian islands with the mainland in 2008, the main task was to raise the level and quality of life on islands that the maritime liner transport system as the backbone of all efforts to improve the quality of life on the islands reached right in 2008. According to the number of connections and the frequency of traffic on them, an exceptional level has been achieved within the system, and nearly all island traffic problems have been solved to the satisfaction of the island. The successes were certainly contributed by a national shipowner holding 90% of the lines, which for the 2008 season also strengthened the fleet with three modern ferrys, which means they felt the most residents and Vela Luka and Lastov and Supetar. And for the season of 2009 he planned to strengthen the passenger freight lines on the Dubrovnik – Elafiti line. A system of maritime connections on land islands makes a direct contribution to the success of the tourist season and tourism as a whole. During the whole past year, even in months of full season, traffic on ferry and fast shipping lines took place without difficulty. There were no delays and delays, and millions of passengers and 3 million cars were transported without the slightest accident. The seasonal character of this activity and the specificity of our coast condition that the highest number of lines, or 90% of the lines, is inequitable which requires and requests these 400 million kunas of annual subsidies. The amendments to the law in March this year concerned only compliance with the law on units of local and regional self-government, and this proposal concerns compliance with the Law on concessions provided for, i.e. opened the possibility of resolving certain issues by a special regulation. In this way, assumptions have also been made for the granting of new provisional authorisations on lines that have not yet been concessioned. Another reason is that in the two-year application of the law, some issues are not well regulated and need to be prescribed or prescribed in a clearer or different manner, and in particular the issue of exceptional circumstances in the conduct of transport. Here is a large infrastructure project that connects the island of Pasman and the island of Ugljan that is clearly an example of how laws are not easy to implement when they need to, and life on the islands must go, life takes place on islands and transport, connecting the island with land must always be, must be continued. This legislative proposal is well-defined and defined situations of exceptional circumstances which may result in the inability to carry out further transport. Therefore, the possibility of replacing the ship with a larger and smaller size during the duration of the concession when there are justifiable reasons and only for the duration of the exceptional circumstances. It is also important to note that this proposal gives equal opportunities to private and national shipowners, and special criteria provide for a higher standard of ships and provides protection of the sea, i.e. the environment. These amendments facilitate the achievement of the most important objective, which is an effective organisation and continuous maintenance of a line coastal maritime transport system, with certainty of retaining security, which is, with the supervision of the implementation of the law and the most important task of the Agency for Coastal, Linear, Maritime Transport as a concession provider. I support this bill because the observed shortcomings in the implementation of the previous solution in favour of a number of users, first of all our islanders, and also many tourists of curious tourists who are checking that Croatian islands deserve the title of the most beautiful islands in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36596	Thank you. Final Review State Secretary Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36597	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I would like to thank you for the support you gave in this proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on line and occasional coastal transport. As has already been said, there are four assumptions about the quality of the maritime connection between the Croatian islands. The first is the assumption of a quality built port. The second assumption is quality, good and fast ships. The third assumption is the frequency of the lines connecting the Croatian islands. The fourth not less important is certainly the price of the map, i.e. the price of the service provided to Croatian islanders and those arriving on Croatian islands. Therefore, in the function of such high-quality maritime transport, or rather, such a high-quality maritime connection should be allocated from the budget of a large amount of resources. In 2009, a total of around 550 million kunas were allocated in this year. Therefore, it is clear that the entire maritime connection system of the Croatian islands costs and that there is no quality connection between the Croatian islands and the quality of the tourist season without constant investment in maritime transport. Because it is not only this maritime traffic in the function of connecting Croatian islands, but it is also not less important in the function of a high-quality tourist season. What we did not say in the introduction, and what was not mentioned during the debate, is that through this law there is a possibility of liberalisation in all maritime transport, therefore market liberalisation, but this liberalisation applies only to Croatian shipmakers. So, although we are in the process of joining the European Union, this law still allows the only application to be made to ships owned by Croatian shipowners. When we passed the law in 2006, it was justified or there was fear that, through the adoption of such a law, Croatian shipmen, Jadrolini or other small private Croatian shipmen would be practically destroyed. Up until now, a 20-line tender has been held, so he pointed out and found that Croatian shipmen have been strengthened without their weakness. Regardless of how we will end up through negotiations with the European Union and this part of maritime transport within the framework of the overall harmonisation of our legislation, our Croatian Government has proposed to the European Union that this form of transport remain only available to Croatian shipmen for the next 7 years, so that it is not available to other shipmen coming from the European Union. No matter how this request ends, whether we get this transition period, by law when it is implemented, when all the remaining 36 lines are concessioned, there is virtually no fear for Croatian shipmen, or there is no such significant impact. This is one outcome of our negotiations with the European Union because all these lines will be practically agreed and concerted by Croatian shipmen. Therefore, in a certain way, we are in a hurry to make changes to this law practically implemented the overall concession of all the lines in Croatia and thus protect Croatian shipmen in the best way possible. What I want to say is that the highlighted amendments of the Committee on Local and Regional, or Regional Self-Government and by the Committee on Legislative and Here, we accept the amendments that are highlighted in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36598	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal transport. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendment committees and did not vote on them because they became part of the final draft of the law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal transport. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. Score. I find that with 106 votes for, 1 abstention, the proposed law in the text has been passed as proposed by the Government along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36601	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Allow me to present briefly the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Legal Position of their Forces or what is briefly referred to as the "London Sofa" and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on the Legal Position of International Military Commands established on the basis of the North Atlantic Treaty or in short the "Paris Protocol". The proposal to adopt these two documents comes through the parliamentary ratification of the North Atlantic Treaty by which Croatia became a member of the NATO Alliance, as well as the prior adoption of the Agreement on the Status of Forces within the Partnership for Peace of 2001 and the Additional Protocol of 2003, which are practically the same documents, but adopted by the Republic of Croatia as by some other countries, the member states of the Partnership for Peace before becoming members. So the fundamental difference is in the status of the position from which we as a state adopt these documents. One document and another, means "The London Sofa" and "Paris Protocol" which define the legal position and certain operational circumstances of the deployment of Allied forces and their commands on the territory of the Member States is practically so important that it enables the functioning of the alliance itself. Both documents are part of NATO's legal gains. In the process of joining the Alliance, we made a commitment to accept all these gains. All members of the alliance before us accepted these documents without amendments. I am free to note that this fact itself has been accepted as such by countries which, as well as Croatia, take great care of their national interests, provides another additional guarantee that it is documents in which in no way the interests or political or legal or financial countries that approach these documents have been violated. We have also, on our part, studied these documents by the Government and its relevant resolutions and we can pass on our assessment that they do not violate our interests in any way, nor the laws, nor do they involve taking on any additional financial commitments. The documents themselves are about regulating the legal status of the presence of Allied forces in the Republic of Croatia, meaning the possibility, of this possible deployment. This legal regulation concerns criminal and criminal proceedings, damages, customs, with documents being observed, you have a Croatian translation as well as a French and English original in the case of any claim or application, French and English origins are the ones that are valid. I would also like to point out that the proposal adopted was also to adopt these documents by emergency procedure with a united first and second reading. The reason is that we want to act as a fully integrated Member State as soon as possible for a number of reasons, and of course by considering any possible potentials that might happen. These are documents that regulate the actual foundations of the functioning of the legal NATO by allowing the deployment of Allied forces in each member state. In the case of needs, the country's specific needs for its defences as referred to in Article 5 or in the case of exercises or any other activities that are taking place or which may be necessary. It is also extremely important that this document, we attach ourselves to the fact that it has been adopted by all members of the alliance and it also has a double value because it also marks that the Croatian forces that have been relocated for training, for reasons of visitation or for reasons of any other which could involve collective defence of the alliance, enables adequate reciprocal treatment and our forces deployed in other Member States. The main intention is, here, Mr. Vice President, to complete the short presentation, the main intention is to make it possible for these documents to be adopted in the NATO accession process for the full functioning of the Republic of Croatia as members of NATO with all the responsibilities and benefits resulting from this membership. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I would stop here with your permission.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36602	Thank you. Legislative Committee, Defence Committee. I'm opening a debate. House of Representatives Club of HSS, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36603	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, the Honorable Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, colleagues and fellow MPs. We of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, at the beginning of the debate, want to say that by adopting the proposed laws, i.e. by confirming this agreement and the Treaty of the Republic of Croatia as a full member of NATO, will create a framework for implementing the standardised legal gains of the NATO Alliance. In this way, it will create a legal framework for integrity with the defence and armed forces ministries, other NATO member states in areas governed by the said agreement and this proposed contract. We will also try to explain the reasons why we support the relevant text of the contract and of this agreement. The Republic of Croatia as a full NATO member by confirming those agreements and agreements, as well as those whose confirmation is expected in the coming period, proves that it ceases on an international basis for some circles or those who used to joke about being a banana state. In this way, the same rules apply formally to the position of the armed forces of the NATO Member States, in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, or the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the territory of the NATO Member States. The text of the contract and the agreement are written without imposing any interest and will of some of the signatories, and we consider them to be a formal legal framework for cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and other NATO Member States on the basis of which interests will develop and coordinate, as well as other issues provided for in this proposed contract and agreement. Following this, we hope that this will facilitate the work of our competent authorities, in particular we are thinking of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia with partners from NATO member states. We'll also mention some open questions regarding the signed... and technical agreements from war and wartime years, until the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the NATO Alliance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to our knowledge of the first experience, and they are also positive, but also negative with foreign military forces, the Republic of Croatia has gained support for the UMPROFOR troops in the Republic of Croatia, and afterwards by supporting NATO forces in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The forms of support and support procedures for NATO forces Bosnia and Herzegovina were defined by the 1995 status of the Republic of Croatia forces agreement. The agreement also continued to apply to the staff of the European Union, who took over the lead mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and on the same principle it also provides support to NATO forces participating in Kosovo in the KFOR mission. In other words, we refer to documents detailing the support, policy, legal conditions or financial elements agreed and signed between the national authorised representatives of NATO and the European Union, which are necessary for security in NATO, and the European Union, by conducting operations and exercises. The following question arises as to whether the new status of the Republic of Croatia as members of NATO, and the documents currently under discussion help to address problems that have arisen or still arise in the application of the aforementioned war and war agreements and contracts relating to staff of NATO Member States and the European Union. In doing so, we think of problems that create for us, for example. traffic offences, port damages, at sea, as well as others mentioned earlier in the media problems, and when representatives of NATO and the European Union are not subject to national legislation. What we're saying is that in wartime times, the Republic of Croatia has sometimes agreed to everything and everything, but now it doesn't have to. In addition to the above mentioned, we would like to obtain information from the representatives of the legislators when some documents are expected to be adopted, such as the concept of supporting the Republic of Croatia to partner countries, the plan of offering infrastructure facilities of other countries in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the catalogue of the capabilities of the Republic of Croatia, as well as other necessary documents resulting from commitments made under international defence organisations which the Republic of Croatia has joined or has access to on the basis of international contracts, which are documents ensuring the implementation of partner objectives. At the end of the debate, we want to say that we hope that, through these open issues that we have mentioned, we have at least little pointed to the complexity of the matter we are discussing today, but we also believe that they will be taken into account in the adoption and the subsequent documents clearly being prepared. Based on the stated club of the Croatian Peasant Party, it supports the draft law concerning the acceptance of the proposed content of the agreement, as well as the proposed content of the contract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36604	Thank you. Club of HDZ Representatives, Mr. Representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36605	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. There are two documents before us, one protocol, one agreement. The two documents that the Republic of Croatia has been eagerly awaiting for over 18 years means since our independence that we are signing contracts that we will be tied to and partners to, when it comes to the NATO alliance. The membership of the Republic of Croatia in the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty of NATO was a foreign policy security priority achieved by joining the North Atlantic Treaty after we signed full membership in NATO on 1 April 2009, the Republic of Croatia is expected to act on a number of international agreements that constitute a legal gain of NATO and on the implementation of internal legal procedures in the coming period. When it comes to the Protocol itself, the Proposer sought simply to describe through all these articles and to explain one and the other pages in Article 1... of the Supreme Command, the Allied Command of the North Atlantic Council through Article 2 which will be applied to the expression of the forces of civil, land, family members, and what most countries fear, which is when the military is all similar or the same. It shall mean that each member of the Alliance of Command will have an identity card issued by the commandant with the name, date, place of birth, state, rank, regular number, photograph and time limit of importance required to show on request. Article 6 refers to the property of the ownership of the federal command, the damages which may be caused by members of forces or civil and land. Article 7 refers to the exemption of tax on the territory of the receiving countries and is also being built on that the members of the donor countries in their territory are bound to do so. Article 8 by paying taxes, etc. So all of these articles from one to 14 articles are well done and visible that they do not need to be simply on the ground they do not need legal services that members of the Armed Forces and all of these components can act under the same agreement between... on the legal position of their forces. So from Article 1 to Article 2 they accurately described what the forces are, which are civil, land forces, family members, the countries of the shale, the receiving state, the military authorities of the North Atlantic Council's point of view. The behavior of what my colleague used to say. The conduct that the laws of the receiving State, etc., must be respected under Article 2. Then about wearing uniforms, when they're on work assignments so they can be civilian and military uniforms. In addition to all of these, it means 14 and 20 articles in the hope that we will not, that we will not apply any article as a receiving country, but as a country of shale, except in cases where NATO exercises are carried out. The Croatian Democratic Community will certainly support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36606	Thank you. HNS club Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36607	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will in any way support the ratification of these two documents. That's not at all controversial. However, what I went out on this phone booth concerns something else. In fact, this is about very serious issues, these are important newspapers in our legislation. We can't accept it here, we can't even change the agreement. He should be accepted this way because all other NATO members have done so before us. However, since this is about repeating very serious issues. It would be easy if it only cost that a country that will join Croatia with its military forces will have to respect our legal order, but it is not just that. All procedures relating to entry and exit, wearing, uniforming, weapons, driving licence issue, registration shall be clearly worked out and laid down rules relating to the exercise of jurisdiction, the achievement of the claim, with the basis of the compensation for damages. There are local purchases, there is engagement of local civilian population, there are issues related to customs, taxes, finances. That's why the HNS Club says it's safe to ratify both the agreement and the protocol, but it would be good if there was a minister of defense here today, which we wanted to ask for. And your secretary of state to beg that he must do so. These are very important questions. And we can't discuss this matter at seven o'clock in the evening when probably no one is following our work anymore expecting citizens to be able to understand everything that stands in this protocol and agreement. The minister must find ways, press conferences, participation in various shows, radio, television, to explain to citizens what the agreement means, or protocol, which are the consequences, the application of these documents so that tomorrow our people do not wonder and what is happening on our roads, streets, etc. It's quite common, but we need to systematically prepare the citizens for it. Therefore, the request of the HNS club is after ratification we ask that the minister indeed do everything to bring this matter closer to our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36608	Thank you. Final review by State Secretary Pierre Simunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36609	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The shortest thank you for the words of support in adopting these two documents and the short possible answer to some of the questions that have been asked. As regards the question of the concept of support for the host country, it means everything that the Republic of Croatia as a member of the alliance should offer to the forces of the alliance in the event of arrival in the Republic of Croatia means exercises and in the case of our need. This concept is in the making, in the final stage of production and we expect that, together with the catalogue of ability, it would mean a specific identification of all the necessary elements and support of the host country in the autumn and made in its final version. Thank you very much for the suggestion of information, the need to inform the public about all the elements of our functioning as members of NATO. During the whole NATO entry process, it was one of our main directions to action to increase public understanding and support NATO membership. And it is definitely the plan that this communication with the public and exactly in the way that you have proposed and continued to inform the public about all the elements of our activities in NATO, among which are extremely important precisely these two documents proposed to the Croatian Parliament for adoption at this session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-09-0.u36610	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on these two bill proposals. I'm interrupting the session. The sequel is tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, the final draft law on gambling, the final draft of the Law on Postage Services, the Proposal for a Law on Electronic Media, is the first reading. These two previous three are emergency procedures. At 12 o'clock, there would be a vote on the debated agenda points and on Saturday after the cabinet's meeting, the State Budget Rebalancing Proposal should be sent to the Parliament and on Sunday morning, already before noon on Saturday. On Saturday, it will be on the website of the Croatian Parliament and Sunday morning should be distributed into the boxes of MPs and MPs, with committees mainly starting a debate at 9 p.m. on Monday, as well as all interested committees who want it, with the debate on budget rebalancing starting at 10:30 p.m. on Monday. And the session would also be held on Monday and July 14th and 15th if the budget rebalancing could be adopted and the marathon session could be concluded, with some points of the agenda remaining on Tuesday. That would be Tuesday time. And Wednesday or maybe Tuesday if such a consensus is to vote on the budget and conclude this session. Thank you very much. The final proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on the Legal Position of International Military Commands established on the basis of the North Atlantic Treaty. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. I find that with 105 votes for and five abstentions, the proposed law has been passed.
