ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31866	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'll be very brief. In the last first reading, we have already talked about the importance of this law that fully harmonizes us with best practice, European practice, standards and guidelines for quality assurance of science and higher education. We are grateful to all the committees of this respected high body as well as the discussion at the Croatian Parliament last time, on very valuable and useful suggestions that we have introduced further into this legislative proposal. So now I'm just going to briefly mention that actually the greatest importance of this law is to separate the work of the National Council for Higher Education and the National Council for Science which are strategic bodies. The bodies that this distinguished body chooses. So the Croatian Assembly of Operational Things that they had to do so far, because it was regulated in the existing Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. Now the Science and Higher Education Agency is taking over that operational part. And the strategic part remains those significant bodies, the National Council for Science and the National Council for Higher Education. However, of course that these strategic bodies would have a more important impact on the Agency, based on the last reading of discussions on the committees of this Assembly, an accreditation advice has been introduced in the Agency as an expert body composed of representatives of the academic community, which, for the right of the national councils, one and the other national councils will in fact in some way control and give this professional character to the Agency, because it cannot be expected, of course, that the Agency, as an operational unit, will decide on the profession in this way. This is one of the key innovations that we have introduced on the basis of a discussion on this esteemed body. Then one part of the law, we have already mentioned, is also the Agency's founding act. But it should be said that the agency was founded in 2004 by a government regulation, and now it's actually rising to Parliament level, there's even more independent than the executive. Okay, and now she was independent, but right now she's getting formal. Finally, this law also provides for the establishment of a central reception office at the Agency for State Prosecution and, of course, a number of other novels has been introduced as regards the quality standard, because, in fact, by signing the Bologna Declaration, later the Bergen Declaration 2005 we are obliged to fully comply with the requirements of the European High Educational Area... which we're actually doing right now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which doesn't mean we haven't had certain quality standards before, and now we fully comply with these European requirements. Here's what would be brief. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31867	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31868	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At its 15th session, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture discussed this Final Proposal for a Law on quality assurance in science and higher education. Please be quiet out there, so we can't talk on two sides. Isn't that right, President? So this law discussed the committee as a parent working body and with great care, because in the academic and scientific public it had already crystallised the view that this is an extremely important law which will in many ways work on scientific work and on higher education in the Republic of Croatia. There have been a lot of objections and suggestions and I can say that the applicant has indeed accepted a number of proposals that have emerged during the debate. The most controversial question in the whole law was whether the Agency for Science and Education should fully implement the process of accreditation of higher school and scientific institutions, for the exercise of their activities or for some authority in this regard should retain these two National Councils for Science and High Education. However, accepting the requirement that the Agency's assessment should have a special weight in the area of relevant professions. The final proposal gives a special place, a special importance to one body, a special body within the Agency, which is so-called. the accreditation advice which will remove any doubts in this regard. The applicant has also introduced a number of other improvements such as the harmonisation of the initial accreditation procedure in both areas for which the Agency is in charge. Thus, the initial accreditation process in the field of science is regulated already at law level and is not subject to sublegal regulation. In the area of initial accreditation for carrying out scientific activities, the Institute was left out, which was envisaged. a letter of expectation. A supplement is introduced under which university study programmes, adopted by the University Senate, the state budget is financed by the basis of a special contract. The recommendations addressed to the Minister by the Agency for Science and Higher Education, according to the final draft law, must always be explained. The debate moved mainly in this direction whether the new law actually took away the permanent powers of higher education and science councils and transferred them to the agency. The opinion has been crystallized that the agency will actually be a very useful service for these two councils, i.e. to take over these jobs that the councils have so far had to do and to leave to the councils one authority in the general strategy in the development of high education and science in the Republic of Croatia. After the debate, the Committee unanimously concluded that it was proposed to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Security and Quality in Science and Higher Education with the amendments attached to you here, which you all received on benches and that I will not read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31869	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Agent Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31870	Mr. President, representatives of the government. The SDP club will support this law because we believe that the agency is actually a very high and very important professional body and we consider it quite appropriate to obtain its legal basis and legislation. So the agency, some MPs and MPs asked me after last debate, knowing that I'm a philosophy professor, a philosophy at the agency, so let me just say two words to explain her position. Thus, high education and science are strategically managed by the National Council for Higher Education and Science. According to the old concept, the agency is their expert body. In this way, the Agency is carrying out external evaluations, otherwise checking the quality of higher education and science and thus ensuring on the one hand the modernisation of our high school programmes and scientific research with those in the world, while on the other hand ensuring that all the assumptions that this quality of the request and which should be met so that these institutions can function. Therefore, ensuring the quality of higher education and science is, in fact, the main lever of progress and higher education and science. But indirectly, what is more important is the economy, society, and at the ultimate convention, the welfare of people because knowledge and science rests everyday life in the modern world. So I repeat once again, I fully welcome the legal ingenuity of the functioning of this body. I also thank the legislators as well as the members and members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture who are prone to accept a whole series of proposals and amendments which will then be articulated as amendment committees and I hope that they will be accepted. However, we still have some reservations, so I'm going to bring them out here in a request to consider the arguments that we make and maybe some additional amendments will be adopted. We have some reserves still under the law. On the one hand, and that's crucial, we think it's part of, sorry that part of the concept was misused. Namely, the category apparatus that uses this law will lead to confusion because accreditation in the world along with licensing is commonly used as a term that marks a license. So the program is accredited or licensed, that means it's got a license. We are now using accreditation in this law as a previous procedure for obtaining a permit, therefore, as a professional establishment of whether a specific programme, whether it is a high education or a scientific one, meets certain requirements and qualities to propose to the minister to obtain a pass. And on the other hand, a little inconsistencies in the use of the terms accreditation and accreditation recommendations, because the accreditation in the law is understood as what serves as the basis for an accreditation recommendation until, in the light of our understanding of the language accreditation is actually something that is the result of the evaluation process. In fact, the accreditation recommendation should be the result of the accreditation process rather than the other way around. And so, on the one hand, we're dissatisfied with that category machine. On the other hand, we are a little concerned about the relationship between the law of the prescribed powers of the Agency and the national councils. We find it unfortunate when solutions system solutions in very sensitive areas of science and higher education come to the drop. We would much prefer to get a full package of laws relating to higher education and science, and then we could also evaluate the tactical contributions to the whole. We do not know from this law what relations will be between the national councils and the agencies because it is very likely to redefine the role of the national council, the national councils in some future laws and we do not now know what this regulation will look like. But by accepting this law we kind of sign you... And hopefully you won't let her down or abuse her. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thirdly, we had a brief discussion on the Committee that the system laws should go to some kind of public debate, otherwise speaking now, it is therefore too late but we ask the legislators when they pass system laws in the field of science and higher education to give these laws to some kind of public debate so that scientific research institutes as well as other higher education institutions can also be made known and in some ways be participated because we think that more eyes and ears see more and hear more. Fourthly, the accreditation council is one of the key bodies within the agency and we do not consider it a good solution for its action and its competences to be fully within the scope of the statutes, we thought that some legal solutions would be welcome. Sixthly, this law will be passed in our opinion, so mostly a set of good solutions but it will remain inoperable. It will remain a dead letter on paper until the strategic documents mentioned in the law are passed, and these are networks of higher education institutions and networks of scientific research institutes. We therefore appeal to the legislator and the resolution ministry to propose to the Assembly as soon as possible the adoption of these strategic documents, on the one hand, to give the framework for the development or future development of scientific and research activities, as well as higher education, and on the other hand to enable the operation of this law. And finally, we think that one part of the language, especially the verb form, is inadequate for the law. The law is also expected with its own hopes. It is clear to us that whether we will be at the level of best European practices we must comply with different European standards, including ENKA standards, which are updated every two years at ministerial conferences. And so it is a very dynamic process that must actually be made possible by our legislative regulations. But we would do well to commit ourselves to categorical forms, not condicionals, and not to be expected in the law, but to be prescribed in law, because when expected in Croatia, then I fear that this is not a very big obligation. My colleagues and colleagues, we have submitted some more amendments, not to suggest that the law is not good enough, but to try to fix it. If you adopt any of them, we will be pleased, but in this form, the law is acceptable to us, and we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31871	Thank you. It's the HDZ Club. Dear Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31872	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here's a few words on behalf of the HDZ Club. First and foremost, I want to repeat and emphasise, every organised effort, every systematic approach to improving and ensuring the necessary quality especially in science and higher education deserves our attention and full support. For this reason, the HDZ Club will give full support to all these positive legal processes of change in the ministry aimed at improving the quality of scientific and research work and the quality of higher education at our universities, universities, institutes, etc. The improvement of quality in science and higher education is an extremely important task for a whole series of reasons, and I think it should be given a lot of extra attention in order to really fully, I would say at all levels, understand why this is an important strategic commitment, because that is the only way that such a policy of the Croatian Government can get the support of all Croatian citizens. Quality, directly or indirectly, contributes to a more competent society is not a controversial, more efficient and productive society, a more competitive economy, a stronger economy, certainly provided that the research and quality of education that can be applied in these functions and in these objectives is properly applied. There are various projects, different schools, different standards, different criteria, different individuals. In any case, we must make all the efforts needed to improve quality, but also to concentrate our efforts, limited financial resources that we have in science and education in the mood, in high school education to really choose and concentrate on those goals that deserve full social attention and justification. The last time I noticed, there were projects that could be scientific, that could be important, but maybe they don't have to be functional and that should be thought about. The calculation of the mass characteristics of the Pegasus planet may be a challenging scientific project, but in any case we need to ask ourselves to what extent such projects reflect our priorities and our interests. I had a long time ago to see a whole series of our young colleagues and excellent scientists in the United States and in other universities, but when we talked then unfortunately I had to concentrate on mostly dealing with things and research that are not a priority, I would say the wider international community, and unfortunately these researches can hardly be re-painted and applied in the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about the quality of science, then I want to say as an engineer with decades of experience, I want to say about one aspect that I don't think has and didn't deserve enough attention. We very often view it as something unacceptable, and that is acceptable, it is priority and it is essential, commercialising quality research and development. If we don't have these commercializations, quality research and development, then the question is why do we do it all. All developed countries such as the United States, the European Union, China, India, etc. It is this aspect, not only of commercialising research and development in the interests of its own economy, increasing the competitiveness of its own economy, improving the quality of life in its own countries, but very often improving its own national security and this should be taken into account when we talk not only about quality, then I would especially like to emphasise, one important component is functionality, applicability and priorities which the state like the Republic of Croatia imposes in transition years. When I talk about quality, then I'm talking about a whole series of different administrative measures how to improve quality. But what matters is what I would like to stress this opportunity is quality and must be the state of mind of those who participate in the process of higher education, science and research. Without this commitment, individuals have no opportunity to ensure that any administrative mechanism ensures the necessary and desired quality and that we must be aware of. We must be aware of the fact that many people for various reasons and titles that may seem so attractive, perhaps so important, very often several times, not only at the individual level, but also at the level of the institutions hold a very important priority. And I didn't say for no reason many times in that mass of opening different schools, universities in different places, Long Village, Virovitica, Dugopolje, Kumrovci etc. remains a matter of purpose, remains a question of purpose, remains a question of justification. It is good to learn, but in any case if limited state resources are spent, then the question is whether limited state or personal resources have achieved maximum, not only personal, but also wider social interest and impact. The criteria spoken of, regardless of whether they are institutional or any other aspect, can be measured and interpreted in different ways. What I would like to stress here, in any case, is the quality of science, it is well known to all of us, especially to those involved, who have done this, or who are dealing with the team today, starting to ensure the quality of the doctorate. Ensuring the quality of a doctorate is the first step in which standards are defined, recognized and respected. If the first key and most important step loses the feeling of what is quality and what is not quality, then unfortunately after the whole evolutionary cycle does not give the necessary quality in the lives of individuals, professors, doctors, it does not matter, and the institutions in which they operate. And I remember very well, not without reason sometimes long ago conversations with colleagues, I don't want to speak their names, but I would say to prominent Croatian scientists from different fields of physics, mathematics, etc. Who told us younger people there's no doctorate unless there's a doctorate of CC work. If there is no adequate quality, perhaps high-quality scientific work that passes the appropriate levels of reviews. How many of our PhDs really meet these conditions before the completion or prior to the defence of the doctorate, published, and thus have the necessary level of quality provided? That's what I think is very important, and that's what we need to pay attention to. How many CC works are in our colleges, from college to college? What is scientific competitiveness and what is the scientific potential of these colleges is not irrelevant because these people educate, these people create new generations at what standards, if their personal standards can happen not to be questionable and really do not meet those basic requirements. This is the first important aspect, the first step in ensuring quality, not only through bill proposals, but through one of the usual standard academic processes of development and selection of the best among teachers. Another important step that I think deserves special attention and I want to say a few words about it, is the functionality, applicability and importance of certain research, the development of a particular educational institution for a country where such processes take place. And in that sense, it is very important, I said, because of the fact that we have very limited financial resources in the mood that these funds are used in the most effective way possible. And now there may be a dilemma and I would say a question that may deserve a serious debate. What science is, is the question with us, to what extent is it applicable, especially in the economy? What is applicable is to what extent is top scientific work? To find a good balance between one and another justified demand, I would say is a real challenge and a task for the ministry, not just science, but I would say for the whole society. That usefulness and that quality that we should insist on at the same time, I would say is one of the most important priorities. CC works are certainly important. If I might recall my doctorate followed by CC papers, then I'd say the following. Maybe it's CC work by some hierarchy that's the most important thing. But the question is, how functional are they? How applicable are they? Are they indeed the best and most important contributions of an individual to an institution, etc.? And I'm going to say on a personal example, I'm sure it wasn't like that, that there were very good works that might have been published for various reasons in some other magazines, but they could have had more applicability and greater significance. In any case, these are issues that require greater attention and I would say more constant efforts and discussions, not only during the adoption of this bill, but it must be a very important feature of our overall state policy and commitment. Today on 2 April, given the fact that Croatia is 1 April, i.e. yesterday, it was not too much to mention that this important issue of research, development and new technologies and NATO through its institutions is paying special attention. I will mention only one important NATO Committee on Science. The NATO Parliamentary Assembly has a Committee on Science and Technology. NATO has funded a whole range of important scientific projects and, by all means, Croatian scientists have been funded so far by the NATO Scientific Committee. And I can tell myself, it was a pleasure when we passed the reviews a few years ago and NATO funded the publishing of several chambers of papers. Therefore, the fact that the Republic of Croatia today is a NATO member state allows us to strengthen not only our science and education through these institutional mechanisms, but I would say many other economic and technological aspects that are important to the Croatian economy. In any case, for all these reasons, the fact that the improvement and quality assurance in science and higher education deserves our full support and attention from the HDZ club supports this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31873	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31874	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the quote of my colleague, Cosic, whom he added to the Agency... which are actually in the area of the National Science Council. [[The speaker doesn't understand because of the noise.]] For example, determining the parameters of planet Pegasus' pathways can be an extremely interesting and good scientific project that at a learning level gives extremely much information about the expansion of the universe, about the warm direction of the universe applying to existential questions about who we are, where we come from and where we're going. But unfortunately, it's not a measure of this agency, it's an evaluation of the quality of scientific projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31875	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31876	... That the Rules of Procedure bound us to a certain kind of behavior. [[The speaker is turned on afterwards, you can't hear it.]] If it's a replica, if it's a comment, then it's not a correction to an incorrect quote. Therefore, I ask you to respect that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31877	It wasn't a breach of the rules of procedure. The MP announced a correction of the incorrect allegations and corrected a certain incorrect allegation and subsequently made a comment. Therefore, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. But that's why we're moving on with an individual debate. It is next to the honourable representative Nevio Šetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31878	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, Director of the Education and Sports Ministry of Administration, Ms. MPs, gentlemen of the Parliament. Allow a few reflections on the final draft law on quality assurance in science and higher education. This law harmonizes with European standards of our higher education and science. It also clearly sets out the relationship between strategic bodies such as the National Council for Higher Education and the National Council for Science and, on the other hand, the Agency for Science and Higher Education, which is an operational body. But what's important is that this law asks us to do a lot of things that need to be brought to our senses. Here in Article 2 you have a dozen and more terms to understand because you still need to know that we live in that part of Europe that Fernand Broudell is still there in the 1970s said that the European All Christian but has its three branches of Protestant, Catholic and Orthodox and precisely in that part of that Christian Europe where Orthodox and Christian world overlaps, awareness of such works goes a little harder and we know why, the socialist and other heritage we had so that without this awareness, it is difficult to catch a step with Western Europe in understanding and high education and science and applying this quality of excellence. I think it's very important to say because I'm going to read it now. Quality in science and higher education should be established, which is what it is. The internal quality assurance and improvement system, external quality assurance and improvement system, initial creditation, accreditation, thematic evaluation, external and independent periodic assessment of the internal quality assurance system, accreditation recommendation, pass, certificate of compliance with the conditions for carrying out the activity, part of the activity, certificate of external independent periodic assessment of the internal quality assurance system of the subject, evaluation and confirmation of the degree of development and efficiency, etc. I read this on purpose for our public cause we need to know what we're dealing with, and ladies and gentlemen, we're... Western-European civilizations that do everything they do and measure it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not just in this segment. We do so throughout the vertical education, and when we do so we must be aware that this law cannot solve everything, and we should also see how it will apply. That is why I also took part in the discussion of the Committee on Science, Education and Sports where there have been nine amendments, ten that finely improve this legislative proposal. And I'm glad, what I'm particularly glad is that the unanimous decision to move forward with this law and that the committee was unique, that we all agreed and helped to improve this legislative proposal just seems to me feeling, MPs and MPs felt and felt how complex this matter is and how important it is and how important it is to understand and how important it is to establish it. Because it is not the same as our situation in science and higher education and the quality of the quality of what we do, the more we need to be aware today that the Republic of Croatia is intensively raising both the number of scientists and institutes and the number of higher schools and programs on which it is being taught. Also, ladies and gentlemen, what I would like to say and praise for this law, it seems to me that this is a major step forward for our science and education, what the ministry does is that this is still a alignment with the Bologna Declaration which is very classy and has several stages of its own, and yet this is one of the points of the Bologna Declaration of Quality Insurance. And that is why the law seems to me to be high-quality because, in accordance with the applicable Law on Science, Scientific Activity and Higher Education, the harmonisation of study programmes and the implementation of studies with the principles of content of the Bologna Declaration, which is why the Republic of Croatia took the first step towards integration into the European higher education area. This would be another step that improves. However, the said Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education does not define all the obligations that the Republic of Croatia has made by signing the Bologna Declaration, especially those relating to the aspect of quality assurance and improvement, which includes, among other things, the application of European standards and quality assurance guidelines in the European High Education Area, a strategic document adopted at the Ministerial Conference in Bergen in 2005. It's been a while. So all these documents need to be translated, adopted, conscious and placed in the right place, which I think we are doing and what's concentrated. And that's for all the praises. And it seems to me that, in further work on that integration, on applying the Bologna Declaration to the end, exactly the aspect of external and internal security and quality improvement in higher education and science, comes to the centre of attention. So far, designed systems have plenty of space or have not been able to do enough at the application of European standards and guidelines for quality assurance in the European space and in higher education. You see what we all know that we are dealing with scientific research, that science suffers from partiality, but this wide-ranging and giving the opportunity to see what we are doing and connecting scientific areas and fields, we get what is so necessary, which is what our colleague used to say about the quality of that work that will be able to produce or in social relations, so what can be done at our universities and our institutes. That's very important. It is this whole that is possible and verifiable and see how much we can use to create life and be the subject of life here in Croatia. I believe that in order for the Republic of Croatia to participate in that integration, therefore through the Bologna Process, it must define the processes by law, and the roles of all participants in the quality assurance and improvement system. First of all, the National Council for Science and the National Council for Higher Education, which is as we are and what we know are the strategic components of this project and the Agency for Science and Higher Education, to define which is an operational part of this project, because to define the procedures to ensure the improvement of quality in science and higher education proposed by this legislative proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, by harmonising the national system of external insurance and quality improvements with adopted standards and quality assurance guidelines in the European higher education area, quality comparability, qualifications in the Republic of Croatia with qualifications acquired in other countries within the European higher education area is expected. And this is the key moment where we can show how much we really contribute to higher education and science both to ourselves and to others. Enhancing the abundance of students and teaching staff, the membership of the Science and Higher Education Agency in the European High Education Security Association, and the European High Education Insurance Register, as well as the recognizable positioning of Croatian higher education and scientific organisations at international level, all for the purpose of creating an internationally recognizable and estimating system of higher education and inclusion in a unique European higher education space. We have indeed created the possibility that Croatia has a space of excellence where other students could study. No one makes it impossible for us to offer such content. And it seems to me that life has always gone from the Mediterranean to the mainland that this process will happen again, because these small Adriatic universities from Pula to Dubrovnik are also a guarantee of that and that communication. And I think he's creating this legal framework opportunity to make that area possible. I can't but support this law and congratulate everyone who has worked and contributed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31879	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31880	Dear Mr. Vice President, the honorable secretary of state with co-workers, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. So we have before us a final proposal of an extremely important law that will further improve our scientific education system according to the systems of Western European developed democracies. However, the fact is that as regards the dictionaries and categories processed in this law, the law allows certain doubts. In fact, quality assurance or Insurance is really home to us in quality infrastructure as a quality assurance, although it is actually a broader context that represents a guarantee, i.e. a guarantee of quality. Therefore, such agencies which deal with accreditation among other things, whether it is for example a Croatian accreditation agency that accredits certain laboratories, surveyed measuring agencies, that they are competent to carry out certain measurements or tests, whether this agency ensures or guarantees quality, i.e. guaranteeing quality to educational and scientific institutions, should therefore also pay more attention to this aspect of quality assurance in the context of the law. Quality is like such a subjective category and actually represents a level of satisfaction for user expectations. That certain expectations were fulfilled. And so you have to ask yourself, who are the ultimate users of this law? It is obvious that these are universities and institutes, scientific and public institutes that must provide a significant, outlined criteria for their quality. But the fact is again that I'm getting circumstances that quality can't and will never be the same for all of our universities. The quality assurance of scientific educational institutes should provide students with the relevance of their study and performance in the labour market. one day when they finish their studies. And through this vertical we come to the end user, and this is the social community that through this law needs to get the power of well-educated resources on the labour market to make the whole society move faster towards the knowledge society. Therefore, this agency, through this law, should meet certain criteria on its own. And now I'm also using condicionals that actually make this law tick especially in the assessment of what it's being brought about. So he says, the harmonisation of the national external insurance and quality improvement system with adopted standards and quality assurance guidelines in the European higher education area is expected to compare the quality of qualifications acquired in the Republic of Croatia with qualifications acquired in other countries. Why is it expected? Why don't we get a stipple, condition? It is secured or given, comparable. Furthermore, the National Council for Higher Education and the National Science Council should be strategic bodies. Well, they are strategic bodies, so why aren't they clearly said in law? Why is the government, why in the House is already in advance like we're afraid of something and we're washing ourselves from something else in advance. Also, according to European standards and quality assurance guidelines in higher education, quality assurance agencies should pass the external evaluation procedure every five years. Why is it not said in the law, it must pass every five years the procedure of external evaluation. So all of us scientists sitting here in the Parliament know that all scientists and teachers have to go through external evaluation every five years or else we don't keep our jobs in institutes and colleges. And the law does not say that scientists or teachers should pass the evaluation every five years, but they must pass the evaluation every five years. And then I gave the amendment precisely to ensure the credibility of this agency, which conducts external evaluation and through this accreditation, therefore, licensing and quality assurance to higher education institutions and institutes. The Agency itself should pass a certain evaluation, so I have made an amendment to add a point in Article 3: "The Agency for Science and Higher Education is required within 2 years of the adoption of this law to meet the conditions for full membership in the European High Education Quality Insurance Association, i.e. ENKA and the European High Education Insurance Register. So, it is nothing new or anything foreign in this law because the law is written in that spirit, but that statement itself would give one seriousness to both the Government and the Parliament and the seriousness to our external partners that we really mean these laws seriously, not just because we have to, and because it is actually a process of harmonising with the requirements of the European Community. In this way, students are made easier to recognise the relevance of individual universities or universities and to recognise those studies and programmes which guarantee tomorrow more relevantness in the labour market, resulting in easier employment and ultimately guaranteeing this society better and progress towards the knowledge society. And I therefore appeal to the State Secretarys to consider this amendment, which is truly well-intentioned and is in line with the practice in the international environment that we are seeking.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31881	Thank you. And we have another one to discuss. Dear Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31882	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the respected secretary of state with associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, this proposal for a law on quality assurance in science and higher education is really looking forward to me and I support its adoption. Because quality assurance is important and necessary for every social activity for every social activity, for every organization, for every institution, and it is particularly important in science and higher education because science and higher education or level of science and higher education directly affect society, social progress and social relations. It is known that three factors are most important for the progress of society, technology, capital and work, that is, man with his knowledge and abilities. From day to day, man needs more and more knowledge, so his productivity depends directly on knowledge and some say that it is the proportion of the effectiveness of each individual to the degree of his knowledge. Knowledge is the main instrument of competitiveness and individual and company and society as a whole. The power of knowledge is immeasurable, which confirms that every technological revolution is preceded by a revolution of knowledge from the appearance of Gutenberg's printing machine and the first wave of the revolution of knowledge. So after 500 years of radio and television, and then in modern times, millions of Internet destinations. And in anticipation of the new wave of the revolution of knowledge, we are witnessing a certain lack, i.e. a lack of coherence and science of higher education and social needs. This discrepancies specifically relates to economic science. Economic science and higher education are indeed at a slight distance with economic needs. The consequences of the economic profession, i.e. that something in the economy is intruded negatively, should neither be proved or confirmed scientifically. The consequences of the economic profession are around the world. The economy is in recession, the economy is in huge financial problems, and how important this is best known is the degree of economic development depends on and the degree of development of each other's social part and segment. Here's the latest survey shows, which is really not proud of the economic profession, that we are in the United States of America of 15 thousand economists only ten predicted this economic crisis. The causes of this are multiple, but certainly part of the burden belongs to both science and higher education. More and more popular economists and popular economic literature have been emerging lately. There is less and less professional and scientific literature, and when a man enters a bookshop on shelves, the new economic literature of the title "How to become rich", "How to earn the first million", "Strategy of the Pacific Ocean", "Beware of the naked that will sell your shirts", "He thinks rich and become rich", "How to sell Eskimo ice", it really leads the economic profession into a stranger. And sometimes, 30 years ago, whoever read "Outer Trade Business" by Professor Petrovic and passed only one, knew everything about foreign trade. Whoever passed the economic analysis knew all about economic performance indicators. Today economic knowledge, like any other knowledge, should be contained as one Greek philosopher says, not only the mere knowledge but also certain systems of value, and that is something that is most economically needed, because knowledge and systems of values affect all our thoughts and all our works. And value systems influence how we're going to use knowledge from work, from technology, how we're going to use knowledge from the environment, how we're going to use knowledge from people. Because knowledge and value systems really lead to discrepancies or harmony. They destroy or create, about science and higher education affects whether the omen is positive or negative. Although knowledge and value systems are subject to very slow changes, it is science and higher education that can speed up this process, the process of change. That's why I believe this law will contribute to that, too. I believe that the Agency for Science and Higher Education will contribute to the acceleration of this process. And I also hope that this law will contribute to the future of less and less economists who know the price of everything and value nothing in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31883	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative finally want to take the floor? Yeah. Dear Radovan Fuchs, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31884	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. First of all, let me thank you, but also to all those who participated in the writing of this law. He is indeed one of the key laws we need to regulate the higher education system, but also the science and technology systems in the Republic of Croatia. It's that he's a kind of blast card for other laws that need to be passed. And thank you also to the SDP club which has constructively discussed and supported this legal solution and indeed laws that will bring new light into certain legal solutions of this law are ongoing and in preparation. Some have been de facto already at the stage that very, very soon they will be forwarded to this honorable Parliament for discussion and adoption. These are primarily the Law on universities, the Law on scientific and research activities and the Law on Higher Education. So when we have this whole leprechaun, we will see just how important this law on ensuring the quality of science and higher education that puts the agency in that position that it has and in all the other parts of the world. It professionalises quality control, it will play an important role in development and science, but mainly the higher education system of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, we must strive all the time to have top experts, highly educated people, and to keep checking in on how they are being educated. Because this crisis, which is global, which affects the world, and it shakes both us and the most painful of us in these sensitive moments, is not an elemental accident, is not some kind of flood, earthquake or some kind of car accident. She was caused by a man and not by any man. They're not some uneducated individual. This crisis has been caused by top schooled experts, financial magnets and people who have graduated from the most elite schools and education. In order for that not to happen again, we must be careful exactly and keep an eye on what and what kind of experts we produce. Thank you all once again for this support.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31885	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31886	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Quality of Science and Higher Education. It was a second reading, P.Z.E. Number 277. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments have been submitted to the benches. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. Mr. Radovan Fuchs, State Secretary. Here you go. Professor Professor Dr. Iron Srecko Flego and Mrs. Marija Lugaric on Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31887	Mr. President, honourable MPs. The government cannot accept this amendment. Because the proposal to replace the word "initial accreditation" with the word "first external quality evaluation", and the word "recreditation" with the words "re-external quality evaluation", is not acceptable because these terms do not have the same meaning. Namely, external quality evaluation is a broader concept than the concept of accreditation, and includes different types of quality research in higher education, and one of them is the accreditation process. The fundamental feature of the accreditation process which distinguishes from other external evaluation procedures is that the outcome of the accreditation process is a formal decision with yes or no, while external evaluation is significantly broader.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31888	Thank you. Mr. Agent Iron Happy Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31889	Ladies and gentlemen. We have proposed this amendment precisely for the reason that we think that a much more appropriate formulation of broader, broader meaning than the rope and because we believe that the terms of accreditation have been incorrectly applied here. Because accreditation in Western countries means something completely different than it does with us. And that's why I'd like to ask the vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31890	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 2. Amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31891	The government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31892	This amendment becomes an integral part of the proposal. 3rd Amendment of the Representatives of Mr. Iron Srecko Fleg and Maria Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31893	The government cannot accept this amendment, because we believe that the text of the law should retain the concept of accreditation recommendation, as a termologically logical sequence of the accreditation process, and that accreditation recommendations should be defined as that basis for the Minister's decision on the final outcome of the evaluation process, because the final outcome of such a decision is the administrative act taken by the minister. Furthermore, the proposal to replace the word "initial accreditation" with the word "revaluation of external quality2, and the word "recreditation" with the word "re-evaluation of external quality" cannot be accepted for a similar reason, because these concepts do not have the same meaning. Namely, external quality evaluation is a broader concept than the concept of accreditation and includes different types of research, quality in higher education and one of them is both the accreditation process and the fundamental feature of this process is the re-making of a formal decision with yes or no.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31894	Thank you, Mr. Agent Iron Happy Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31895	It would be good and perhaps optimal when we listen to arguments when making decisions, not the government's opinion and the opinion of the MPs. In fact, the evaluation is carried out by the Agency as an expert body and only the expert body can decide on the outcome of the evaluation as a professional procedure and not by the Government. The government may, or the ministry may decide on the application of the outcome of the procedure decided by the Agency. And that's why this amendment was so formulated. In those previous points, it was actually a convention of acceptance or non-acceptation of the terms of accreditation or external evaluation. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31896	Thank you. Please, who is for this amendment to Article 2? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. Committee, 4th Amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. This Regulation shall enter into
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31897	This amendment shall be adopted in accordance with Article 2 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31898	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 5th of Mr Zdenko Franic's representative, as referred to in Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31899	Mr President, we accept this amendment but in a modified form, in such a way as to position that article as paragraph 2 of Article 39. The law states that paragraphs 2 and 3 will become paragraphs 3 and 4 of Article 29. The law now states: "The Agency for Science and Higher Education is required within four years of the adoption of this law to meet the conditions for full membership in the European Association for Quality Insurance in Higher Education of ENKA and the European High Education Insurance Register.".
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31900	Mr. Franic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31901	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, I am truly pleased that you have accepted the intensities of this amendment and respecting the fact that from this international agency, ENKA and... They're looking for their own way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I appreciate your intervention that the time of accreditation of our agency extends from two years to four and I withdraw my amendment in such an expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31902	So this amendment was accepted in a modified form as the Secretary of State formulated it here. Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal in this formulation. Committee on Education, Science and Culture, 6th Amendment to Article 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31903	Mr. President, this amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31904	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 7th Amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture to Article 4
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31905	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31906	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 8th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives to Article 4
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31907	And we accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31908	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 9th Amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture to Article 4
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31909	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31910	It remains an integral part of the proposal. 10th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives to Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31911	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31912	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 11. Committee on Education, Science and Culture on Article 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31913	And this amendment of the Committee is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31914	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 12th Amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture to Article 19
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31915	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31916	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 13th Amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture to Article 20
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31917	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31918	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 14. Committee on Education, Science and Culture on Article 20
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31919	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31920	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 15th Amendment of Representative Željko Jovanovic to Article 22
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31921	This amendment cannot be accepted by reason of the fact that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guaranteed the freedom of scientific creation and, therefore, already in the Law on Scientific Activity, high education provided for such a provision which is now, consistently, being transposed into this final draft law. Accordingly, the recredit of private scientific organisations and other legal entities is provided only in cases where organisations are financed from the state budget, such as the initial accreditation to carry out the scientific activities of private scientific organisations only if they wish to be financed from the state budget. If the proposed amendment were accepted, it would not contribute to the achievement of the scientific and technological policies of the Republic of Croatia, as it would also detimise private scientific organisations as well as other legal persons wishing to engage institutionally in scientific activities as part of their overall activities and would not be good for them to assess their overall activities in order to achieve the revenues and activities directly in the foreign budget market.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31922	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31923	So such a solution as explained by the State Secretary is not good because it simply means that private scientific institutions can carry out their activities without any quality, without any parameters of their activities, so I insist that they vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31924	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 16th Amendment of the Committee on Education of Science and Culture, to Article 24
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31925	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31926	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 17. The Committee on Legislatives shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union, in the
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31927	This amendment has already been consummated in the previous part, given that the Regulation amending the law on scientific activity and higher education has been extended, extended the time limit for the application of a provision that prescribes a new funding method which entered into force on 1 July 2004 the number of National Journals proposed by the Legislative Committee is not necessary because that Regulation is as I said earlier. Its content is also included in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education published in the National No. 105/04. the deadline for the start of funding to be re-changed, i.e. extended.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31928	President of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31929	Reason is accepted because the amendment is essentially consummated.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31930	This means the amendment has been withdrawn? Thank you. [[Intruder: Yes.]] 18th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives to Article 28
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31931	We accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31932	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 19. The Committee on Legislatives shall, on the basis of Article 29.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31933	And this amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31934	I 20th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives to Article 30
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31935	Mr. President, we accept this amendment, but in a changed form, in a way that in the listing of "The People's Newspapers", the number 198/03 is deleted. Whereas it is related to Amendment 17 which has not been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31936	President of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31937	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31938	All right, this explanation was given by the secretary of state. Thank you very much. We are going to vote on the final proposal for a law on quality assurance in science, higher education. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This law was adopted by the majority of votes, 123 votes for and 2 abstentions, nothing against, along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31939	We move to the 7th point of the agenda - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 258 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. You received the reports at the session. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Drazen Vikić Topić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31940	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Representatives. Here, very briefly. Of course, I would like to thank the discussions and constructive proposals on all the committees of this respected high body and the final discussion in the Assembly, of which we have, of course, introduced our texts and our bill. What is crucial to say is that the foundation was founded in 2002, that it started to operate in 2004 and that in the past 4 years there have actually been assumptions that the foundation would start implementing European standards, means that institutional funding is separated from project financing. In other words, projects pass as is the case in an independent institution, such as in Germany Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft or in Switzerland their national foundation and that the independent institution with its independent reviewers is making the selection of projects. Of course, the ministry continues to worry that the system is functioning, so-called cold drives and means institutional financing of institutes, universities, universities and everything that makes this system of higher education and science. What I would say is, this bill is actually on the way of the best examples of European practice and, of course, it is not necessary, it is mentioned in the negotiating, in Chapter 25, but it was not necessary to do it, but we ourselves need to regulate the system in order to make it easier when we enter the European space of higher education and European space of science and as easily as possible to get into competence with the whole of Europe. What I would still point out is that we are, of course, all the nomotechnic expressive... Introduced in, that was a suggestion on the board. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We introduced that the foundation is also funded and added to this article and additionally from the state budget so that, apart from the other revenues it has so far. Here, that would be brief. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31941	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Honorable Peter Selem, Chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31942	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members and colleagues. At its 15th session, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia and discussed it as a parent working body. For many years now, the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development has been in front of this House. We regularly accepted these reports, as you know after the debate, that this foundation institute is a factor that has a positive effect on the scientific work in our republic, especially the part relating to projects. This law brings one important new fact, which is that actually from a political level, i.e. from the ministry, he's transferring funding to a trust fund. This is the step that seems very important to us and which clearly causes a series, so I would say even organisational and important issues. In the reasons on the occasion of the second reading, the Proposer explained, more thoroughly and better explain some of the elements and organisational and financial aspects of this transfer of much more ingenuity to the trust and the particular issue of projection of possible revenue movements from the assets and other revenues of the foundation over the next few years, which was to express the request for the debate carried out. As far as the underlying property is concerned, the Proposer holds that there is no legal interference with its reduction. As a possible source of income, it is added to the normative part of the state budget, which is understandable given that, in the transformation of the account foundation, it is further to the essential role of the state budget. I must say that so far, the foundation has very rarely and absolutely insufficiently realised those revenues that were expected from other sources, so it is obvious for this, in this new projection, the foundation will certainly count on the state budget. A clear discussion has been brought up by a number of other questions, even whether this law is in agreement, or whether it answers the question of the postulates of the Foundations and Foundations Act. The proposer argued that the proposed solutions are within the framework of the law, while calling for the opinion of the Ministry of Finance from the day of that and that and the Central State Administration Office as of 4 December 2008 according to which there is no objection to the proposal for a law which, as an instance, controls the legality of work, has been proposed. So, all in all, with a number of issues that are still clear, which will still be checked in practice, and there are, the committee has mostly voted, 6 for and 3 abstentions, to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia with one amendment that actually extends a circle of persons who, due to conflicts of interest, could not be members of the Foundation, i.e. the bodies of the Foundation and, therefore, refers to the Rectors of universities, dean universities and directors of scientific institutes. He says, along with that amendment, the Committee proposes that the Croatian Parliament accept this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31943	Thank you. I'm opening a debate and the clubs are up first. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Nevio Šetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31944	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates, Madam MPs, gentlemen of the Parliament. The final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia, I must say immediately at the beginning, I remember the previous debate that it is good that we have brought in 2 readings because we see here that even two new articles, Articles 7 and 8, have been brought here, so it is good to raise awareness of this matter or something like that in the previous point. However, ladies and gentlemen, the basis for the adoption of the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia is the strategic framework for the development of 2006-2013, then the Action Plan to foster investment in science, research and scientific and technological policy of the Republic of Croatia in 2006-2010, a fundamental setting of the mentioned documents adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is a high quality scientific and higher education sector which will support the economic, social and human progress of its environment and which will be the backbone of the development of knowledge-based society. In this process one of the key roles in the development of the scientific system is intended precisely for the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia which we are discussing here. The project strengthens the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia is one of the key objectives of implementing scientific and technological policy and one of the key steps towards strengthening Croatia as a knowledge-based country. It is about modernising the science funding system in Croatia, which leads it from transition to an example of countries that have developed science and a strong connection of scientific research with other social factors especially the economy. I particularly point out that, as we have heard before, let's say Switzerland is a very recognizable country, Germany, Austria, the Netherlands and a number of other countries. The important news proposed by this bill is the development of the financing of excellent scientific projects from the state budget through an independent and professional foundation. This is the first time public funding of scientific activities is entrusted to an independent institution that is guided exclusively by criteria of expertise, scientific excellence and rigorousity and national research priorities. Madam MPs, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The strengthening of the trust is clearly taking place institutionally from project funding of science, and this is the important news. A separate system of institutional and project funding leads to positive performance in the development of the scientific system, even more excellent scientific work and scientific institutions, in particular universities and scientific institutes. Such a system stimulates institutions to encourage the best scientists through competitive project funding based on scientific excellence and accountability and thus contribute to strengthening the institution. It should be said that the foundation started funding scientific projects, I would say only in 2004 and have since created assumptions for the integration of European standards into evaluation, monitoring, financing of research projects and scientists. However, the Fund should now take responsibility for the implementation of the strategic objective, the construction of the entire system, the encouraging project financing of scientific activities related to results. And that's what makes a link to what we had before the point of quality and overall scientific and higher education. Such a system promotes the personal responsibility of scientists through contractual obligations, based on the professional evaluation of applications according to the criteria of scientific rigorousity and excellence and encourages strengthening and rejuvenation of the research population. As is the case in most European countries with developed competitive science, project funding of science is carried out by a professional and independent institution through... a system with reviewers who are the world's best experts in a particular area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The projects are a competitive system because most project proposals will be rejected. It's the same big news in our area because we've learned that just something goes on regardless of this quality. And strictly separated from institutional funding. The current system in which most projects are financed under the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education has started since 2002. Although set on quality grounds because he had an embedded professional evaluation in him is still not competitive enough because he is not separated from institutional financing. This has shown one particular weakness. These amendments to the law, with the further promotion of all the quality of the work of the foundation so far, which was financially limited, create a basis for restructuring the trust according to the best European practice models. And that's what's important to recognize because a new model is being created. Amendments to the law continue to insist on the establishment of its bodies and services and making decisions completely independent of the state administration body but introduce a clear prevention of conflicts of interest, members of bodies and services from the trust, are excluded from applying to projects and duty to report any conflict of interest. The law releases some of the existing assets of the foundation around 40 million kuna, which will allow a transitional period during 2009 as most of the existing projects last until the end of 2009. Only this year will the Foundation fully develop a system of support for individual scientific projects and a range of support from projects for young excellent scientists to the financing of collaborative networks. In 2010, some of the state budget funding for scientific projects will be channelled into foundation programmes, which will take full responsibility for funding projects through the development of its professional services in Osijek, Rijeka, Split and Zagreb. There is, and anyone who knows this matter knows that about 100 million kunas as much as there has been in the deposit of the trust of all countries in transition can very hard to have such money engaged without being operationally used because we are not part of that Europe that had a hierarchical society we already have some other experience. And it seems to me that this is good to use that money and that it's an open process that the state budget can finance. Why? Because we've got a new system and our finances are wasting what we're creating. And it seems to me that we need to overcome this situation that has caused controversy, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time, the ministry will strengthen the institutional funding of scientific institutions through special funds intended for universities, public institutes exclusively for scientific research, etc. Lamsame for research. The bill will allow additional investment of around 40 million kuna in Croatian scientific projects already in 2009. In 2010, it is planned to transfer to the Foundation a large part of the planned budget for scientific projects. A small part of the projected funding will be invested through additional dedicated institutional funding of research through the Lamsam model for scientific research where institutions will internally but with an external evaluation of success, allocate funds in accordance with their scientific strategy and policy. Funds for institutional funding will be financed in accordance with the available budgets of the Ministry of Science. Such dynamics will continue to transfer budgetary resources to the trust and in the future, resulting in further growth of the underlying assets of the trust and the conditions for the annual transfer of all major part of the budget for scientific projects to the Foundation. This is exactly the law that allows this process. I believe that after the successful positioning of the Foundation in the Science Fund, project funding through the Foundation will be between 15% and 20% of the total funding for science, which in 2009, as we know, amounts to 1 billion kuna, and according to the optimistic scenario, it would amount to around 2 billion kuna in 2012 in line with the government's action plan to encourage investment in science and research, and from that would be about 15 to 20%. The implementation of the foundation-building project through the establishment of an independent and competitive system of funding for scientific activities will be another important step towards the exit of Croatian science from transition, according to a modern scientific system that values and values its top talents and best scientists, and serves as a development of the economy and the entire society. And finally, I would like to say this, the adoption of this law will meet the obligations of the negotiating position of the Republic of Croatia for chapter 25. Science and research and the National Programme for Association with the European Union, the need to strengthen the national research system and improve the system of evaluation of scientific projects, scientists and scientific organisations, the recommendations of the common position of the EU Member States in Chapter 25, and the European Commission's report on the progress of the Republic of Croatia, the improvement of the system of allocation of state resources, in order to ensure excellence. And you can see for yourself how complex it is to unite it. And it's really a very complex job. And quite specifically, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, I would like to point out that this law clearly defines the role of the Foundation as a central institution for the financial support of scientific programmes and projects, and repeals the obligation of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports to issue a tender for the financing of scientific projects in the previous opinion of the National Science Council. Secondly, the foundation's headquarters in Zagreb is prescribed, and the establishment of offices in Split, Rijeka and Osijek is prescribed as soon as the general act of the foundation is arranged for the effective operation of the work of the department of the foundation. Thirdly, the conditions for a permanent inflow of funds from the state budget are ensured through the abolition of the obligation to register 50% of the assets and allow for the inflow of most of the appropriations provided for in the financing of scientific projects and programmes. And fourthly, it is prescribed to prevent conflicts of interest in its entirety that I do not repeat it now. These are all ladies and gentlemen, the reasons why the Croatian Democratic Community's club supports the adoption of this law and will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31945	Thank you. It's SDP's turn, the distinguished representative of Govzden Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31946	Mr. Vice President, representatives and representative of the government. The SDP Club welcomes and supports the transformation of the foundation provided for by this law, as the foundation is designed as an association of scientists who receive money mainly from the state budget with the obligation to optimally divide it. Most excellent amongst themselves, but equally the best scientific research projects. Given the role of science in maintaining and improving everyday life, competitiveness, well-being, economy and so on. I do not need to mention that the strategic role of the foundation is to support exactly the best, because the best ones are expected to make the biggest contribution to the development of society in action on the immediate environment. The organisation of this kind of lady and gentlemen meet at least two goals. On the one hand, they promote the development of science, and they create the basis for new technologies, new products and competitiveness. On the other hand, they allow scientists, so those in this complex matter to be the most measured and most competent, perhaps even one competent to decide on these subtle issues, which is measurable, which is relevant and what is best of what is offered. In this form of trust, among other things, they make it possible, and one more thing, I'd say added value. If joint scientists decide who they will assign projects to, then the possibility is put in place, but also the obligation for scientists to do so completely freely. On the other hand, they are open to the possibility of complete creativity, but also to its related responsibilities. These added values have proved to be extremely productive in some of the world’s foundations. In the American National Science of Foundation which has been functioning for several decades at the European Science of Foundation regardless of its partial bureaucracy in... which has also worked for several decades and we hope that this will be the case in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, in the principle of the SDP club, it supports this law and this transformation of the foundation. We have three reserves, though. It's the one I mentioned in the previous case. We here do not know in what way the relationship between project funding of science and institutional science will be regulated, because it will only be regulated by a new law, and we do not know what it will look like. So if we support the law, another... Governments and legislators hope that it will be well and productively exploited. Secondly, considering the nature of the foundation and the Croatian Foundation Act, we have several dilemmas. Article 6 of the existing Foundation Act states that the Foundation may be considered and registered as an organisation which guarantees its basic assets the continued operation of the Foundation and the execution of its tasks. Since Article 6 of this Act significantly reduces the underlying assets of the trust and the 40th and some million of the current underlying assets of the trust, we are not sure that Article 6 of this Act satisfies Article 6. The Foundation Act. As the budget is generally known and the real investment of funds in the relevant activities is a test and a confirmation of the true fees of the relevant political group. During the past five years, over the past five years, the foundation has been operating on the basis of a accumulation of funds that was incomparably greater than what was invested in the foundation. How much of this political furniture cared about the foundation can be measured by those miserable funds that were invested in the foundation, although the foundation has been doing strategic steps in the field of science, in the area of higher education. And I hope that we will not testify to a sad situation which, in my court, would be the one in which we would find that this law has actually been passed because or primarily in order to put in circulation 40 and some million basic assets of the foundation rather than that the state will continue to invest in the foundation in accordance with its priorities and scientific research activities. The budget rebalance we went through the other day, which we're going to decide tomorrow, I'm afraid it's announcing this situation that I'm afraid of right now. That's it. that science will become less and less money despite the very clear knowledge that only science and knowledge can get us out of the crisis that we are in. The third reserve, ladies and gentlemen, is a conflict of interest reserve. We have warned from this place but our arguments have somehow failed to reach your ears and even less to your souls that the conclusion that we have reached on the President of the National Science Council is against the law because the law obliges us to participate equally in six scientific areas in the management of the field of science. And we have reached a conclusion that is largely in conflict of interest. That's it. We have made it possible for all four people who manage science in the Republic of Croatia to repeat the Minister, State Secretary for Science, President of the National Council for Science and President of the Management Board of the National Science Foundation from one scientific area, i.e. from medicine. And three of those four from one single one, from one single higher school facility, that is. School of Medicine in Rijeka. And we warned that it was politically very bad and actually scientifically research-related by a positive law inadmissible. On the board, I hope we have reached a consensus and I hope that the Parliament will adopt a committee amendment on the conflict of interest in the foundation. That's it. that no person can participate in the bodies of the foundation, first of all those who intend to run for any funds of the foundation, therefore, it is not at all controversial but that the management bodies of the foundation cannot be involved by persons who are state officials, the staff of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports cannot participate, but that they are also not able to participate in persons who, by their position and the description of their jobs, represent the particular interests of their institutions, they are rectors, they are decans and they are directors of scientific institutes. My colleagues and colleagues in the previous agenda have achieved a consensus that I believe, we have forgotten about the party differences and the value systems that we manage in both political and perhaps personal lives. And given the strategic activity, such as science and higher education, I hope that such a situation fills you with some special pleasure. And I invite you colleagues and colleagues, especially from the ruling coalition, to re-acquire ourselves to this special pleasure and in this case, because this amendment, which concerns Article 4 of the third article on conflict of interest, and we hope that it should be very, very precisely articulated, depends on our support, so I ask you in advance and I appeal to you to adopt this amendment because it and its adoption depend on our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31947	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. We have one application, distinguished representative Marija Lugaric. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the promoter, esteemed Drazen Vikić-Topić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31948	Vice President, the Honorable Madam Representatives and the Gentlemen Representatives. Here I thank you for your constructive discussion and, of course, all the committees that gave us suggestions, corrections. I would just like to discuss with the Honorable Mr. Fleg, in the Foundation and Foundation Act, the fact that the property of the foundation is sufficient for the permanent fulfillment of the purpose of the foundation means not only the underlying property. And it is we who have been on the committee discussions in which you have constructively participated in the Article 7 of this Law that the foundation is financed from the incomes of the basic property, from the state budget, from the donations, from this law of the prescribed income and from other incomes. It means total assets. What might be important to say why this change of law occurred because in fact we simply noticed all together that one qualitative leap with the foundation should be made because, let's be honest, the foundation was a big thing when it was founded in 2002, but it basically didn't accomplish the function of the foundation until the end. And now it is possible to achieve the function of the foundation to set up some donor conferences, to make other incomes. In fact, the foundation has somehow tied up that mandatory reserve, like it was saving, which I also think is one of the possible approaches, but maybe it's not dynamic enough. Just by adding this money from the budget and by releasing those money that she had as a reserve will actually be able to strengthen that dynamic, of course it won't actually be a reduction, but it'll be an increase, because nobody's going to touch that trust money, I mean that's the obligation we're holding, which we agreed on. Here's what would be brief. Once again, I really thank you for all the constructive suggestions and discussions in the amendments. And here, that's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31949	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. And we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31950	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 258. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. State Secretary Mr. Vicic Topic. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31951	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The amendment shall be accepted but in changed form. In Article 3(4), it is amended to read: "Members of the foundation bodies cannot be members of the other highest professional bodies concerned with the development and quality of the entire system of science and higher education, employees of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, rectors of the university, dean of the university and directors of scientific institutes." In fact, this change only made it a little more precise that all those bodies were in place, not just for the board of directors. That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31952	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31953	A decision was taken in the amended form as explained by the State Secretary. I am therefore voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The law was passed by a majority of votes, 122 votes for, 3 abstentions, along with accepted amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31954	We're moving to the 8th point of the agenda. It is - The proposal for a decision on the selection of three judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia is proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament, on the basis of Article 125. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the materials. I would ask the applicant's representative to further explain the proposal. Representative of the Proposer is distinguished representative Vladimir Seks, chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament and vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31955	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 57(1), subparagraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, in conjunction with Article 6. The Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament tabled a proposal for a decision to elect three judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia who unanimously established at the meeting on 24 March 2009, and proposed to the Croatian Parliament that the decision on the selection of three judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia be taken at this session. According to that proposal, the elected judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia would take office in accordance with the provision of Article 8. Constitutional law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament proposes to the Croatian Assembly a proposal for a list of candidates who enter the narrow election for the Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and this: Matu Arlovic, Željko Potočnjak, Agatha Racan, Milan Radaković and Miroslav Šeparović. In accordance with Article 9(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, On 10 October 2008, the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the President of the Constitutional Court, informed the Croatian Parliament that on 11 April 2009, the term of office of judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia was: Agati Racan, Mario Kosa and Željko Potočnjak. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament received notice from the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia on 15 October 2008. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 6(1) The Constitutional Court of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has been prescribed that the procedure for the candidate of the Constitutional Court judges and the proposal for elections of the Croatian Parliament shall be carried out by the Board of the Croatian Parliament responsible for the Constitution. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament has instructed, in accordance with Article 6. Constitutional law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, an invitation to judicial institutions, law schools, legal chamber, legal associations, political parties and other legal persons and individuals to propose candidates for the election of three judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The call was published in "The People's Newspaper" since 11 February 2009. The deadline for the application was 30 days and the last day for the application was 13 March 2009. In a call from the candidates requested that, with a résumé, they should attach documentation on compliance with the constitutional law of the prescribed conditions, and in particular the housekeeper, diplomas of completed degrees of education, certificates of working experience in the legal profession, refutements of the work book, confirmations of the employer, the conviction of the criminal court that no criminal proceedings and confirmation of the Ministry of Finance of the Tax Administration have been conducted by the applicant of any obligations made. The candidates Mate Arlovic, Branko Chimzek, Miljenko Đunij, Srečko Jelinić, Mirjana Juric, Jadranka Kalebić, Mirko Klinžić and Jasmina Kovačević-Cavlović, Tonči Majice, Željko Potočnjak, Agatha Racan, Milan Radaković and Miroslav Šeparović arrived at the invitation. Srecko Jelinic and Mirko Klinzic withdrew their bids before further proceedings. At the meeting held on 20 March 2009, the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament established the other 11 candidates in due time to submit their applications and to meet the conditions laid down in the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia for the choice of Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The constitutional law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed that the competent committee shall hold a public discussion with each candidate who fulfils the conditions for selecting a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and, on the basis of the data collected and the results of the talks, draw up a list of candidates entering a narrow choice for judges of the Constitutional Court of Croatia, with the rule that the list of candidates normally contains more candidates than the number of judges of the Constitutional Court elected. The board called for a public interview of all candidates except candidates who withdrew their candidacy. Candidate Jasmina Kovacevic-Cavlovic informed the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament about her failure to come to an appointment, but did not give up the candidacy. During the public conversation, members of the board referred to the candidates questions on the basis of which they gained the impression of candidates as professionals and persons. The official note from the public talks on candidates is an integral part of this decision and is attached to the material that each representative and representative has before them. After the discussion, the committee discussed how to determine the list of candidates entering the narrow election for judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Proposal for the Vice-President of the Committee of Mr Josip Lek to refer the Committee to the list of candidates to the Croatian Assembly, where all 11 candidates who meet the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court will be required. The board did not accept because three board members voted in favour of the proposal, and 7 were against it. The proposal by the chairman of the Committee, Vladimir Seksa, makes the list of candidates entering a narrow election for the three judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia five candidates who are voted in secret by the most members of the board. The board accepted most of the votes, 7 votes in favour and 3 votes in favour. A secret vote found that candidates received the next number of votes. Mato Arlović 10 votes, Branko Chiszek 0 votes, Miljenko Junio 0 votes, Mirjana Juričić 2 votes, Jadranka Kalebić 0 votes, Jasmina Kovacevic Calović 0 votes, Tonči Majica 0 votes, Željko Potočnjak 10 votes, Agatha Racan 10 votes, Milan Radakovic 9 votes and Miroslav Šeparović 7 votes. The results of the secret vote were verified unanimously by the board by 10 votes in favour. The Committee for the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament suggests to the Croatian Assembly a proposal for a list of candidates entering a narrow selection for 3 Judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and Matu Arlovic, Željko Potočnjak, Agatha Racan, Milan Radaković and Miroslav Šeparović. When setting out a proposal for a list of candidates entering a narrow election for the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee took into account the observed excellence highlighted in the résumé of each candidate and the public conversation impression. He also took note of compliance with the constitutional provision on gender equality as well as the profile of judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, to which he brings the term of office in accordance with Article 6(5). Constitutional law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee also gives an explanation showing why it gave the individual candidate a head start over the other candidates. In these arguments and in the light of the reasons why the committee has given priority to the individual candidate over the other candidates, it is very extensive in all the materials that form part of this proposal for a decision and that have all the representatives and advocates ahead of them so that, for the sake of breadth and economics, I would not read and present all these reasons why the Committee on the Constitution has given priority to a particular candidate over the other candidates. Following the reasons presented, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system proposes to the Croatian Parliament to make the proposed decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31956	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. We've got two reported for now. Dear representative Vesna Pusic on behalf of the HNS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31957	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. As we have seen from the events of the last period, these elections for constitutional judges are one extremely sensitive subject and I think it has proved that this procedure that we have at the very least is questionable. Namely, our committee and Parliament also went through the case of Judge Slavica Banic, who was later established by a decision of the Administrative Court in one position, or failed to meet the conditions. Now she complained and filed a constitutional suit. This has all led to an institution that the late Mr. Jadranko Crnic has brought into one position of real authority in Croatia. With such incidents and cases, the institution's authority has seriously violated itself. On the other hand, we are in a situation where the Constitutional Court began to use itself as the fourth instance of the trial, which is not its function and it should not be, and it is partly likely that it came about because of the problems we otherwise have in the judiciary, so that a large number of people who have received judgments that they considered unfair and who were not satisfied with then passed their cases on to the Constitutional Court. We in the HNS Club believe that this procedure has either shown itself or that this procedure has shown that there are problems and that the procedure itself includes actually a lot of arbitration criteria, that the fact that the decision is taken first on the board, so the number of candidates on the board is narrowed down, and then in Parliament does not, however, have a major impact on the decision on the constitutional judges. And on the other hand, there's no personalized responsibility. Therefore, persons who and who have an influence on the choice of constitutional judges far beyond what Parliament itself has do not have at the same time and personal responsibility for this choice. So the procedure itself is such that it eliminates personal responsibility, not eliminates personal influence. In this procedure, as the last one, the candidate was also Judge Mirjana Juricic, a candidate who, I would say, also in her reactions proved to be extremely independent, courageous, if qualified, it was clear from her resume, from her career and proved to be largely an independent person with a position that would be very suitable for the function of the Constitutional Judge. However, given the procedure we have, neither has it entered a narrower choice, let's say one person, nor does Parliament have the opportunity to declare it. In the first case, when she ran, the situation was such that a large number of people didn't know her outside the profession and didn't know her way out of the profession. However, given the difficulties and the incident that took place after the election of Judge Banic and the process that Judge Juricic led, it was seen that her position was such that she was willing to publicise herself in a situation where, of course, the pressures were high, which is exactly the attitude and profile of the HNS Club for the Constitutional Judge is important and necessary. Our proposal is based on experience in this and past procedure, one possibility, of course, of the one that my colleague Leko was proposing for all candidates to come to Parliament. Another possibility which personalises responsibility and is also known in the world as a model, which personalises responsibility for the appointment of constitutional judges since, as I said earlier in this procedure, it is a major influence of individuals but there is no personal responsibility. So, with this procedure of selecting constitutional judges, something in the opinion of the HNS club is wrong. She has no relationship between influence and responsibility. And one of our proposals when we change the Constitution will be that, in accordance with the experiences of this poor procedure, it is proposed that constitutional judges be appointed as president of the state in accordance with, say, American experience. The president of the state, in that case, has a recognizable personal responsibility and has this responsibility if it is shown that something does not work with anyone she or he has proposed because in this situation we have defacto spread responsibility to the entire parliament and the whole parliament has made one decision that the defect or whose formation of a defect has not had much influence. And it has been brought to an absurd situation that the Constitutional Court is now in charge of a procedure to determine whether the woman elected here for the Constitutional Judge has the actual qualifications sought. It's a situation that sort of mocks the entire system of law of this country. Therefore, taught the experiences we have had recently and as one of the proposals to change this procedure that we consider to have proved very missing and brought us all together and as parliament in one bad position, in fact in one position where we bear responsibility for something that this Parliament did not have a lot of influence on. We will propose to personalise responsibility for such an institution and, by example, to the United States, even though it is still there I would say to a firmer or firmer court instance, which is the Supreme Court to appoint the President of the United States and automatically thereby bear and responsibility for its decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31958	Thank you. And on behalf of the IDS Club, distinguished representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31959	Honorable Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. We see that in these arguments, the mandate expires, Agati Racan, Maria Kosa and Professor Potočnjak. We see 13 citizens of the Republic of Croatia's bids arrived at the invitation. The secret vote found that the candidates received the next number of votes, that I am not quoting it now. In the end, it is said here who is proposed for the selection of three judges, this is what Mr. Arlović, Professor Potočnjak, Mrs. Racan, Mr. Radakovic and Mr. Miroslav Šeparović. The IDS would like me to be as open as I am to being the happiest not to obstruct the choice first of all, which will say that he is present. If the opposition is not present then it is clear that neither IDS will be in these benches. We would be most fortunate not to be overvoted because, that is my feeling, this election will definitely eliminate one of the SDP candidates if Mato Arlovic and Agatha Racan's SDP candidates. Perhaps it would be best for SDP and HDZ to somehow sit down and agree on some candidates to sort of support. IDS or better said IDS proposal also coincides with this proposal of the Constitution Committee and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. We absolutely have nothing against Mr Arlovic, regardless of what he called us both autonomists and separatists, it is known from whose house in Rovinj. But Mr. Arlovic was an agent in five terms in this house, sitting between us. Surely he knows the spirit of the Constitution and the fact that we sometimes differed over the fate of tourist land or that Slovenians or Bosniaks were not returned to the preamble, that we did not introduce a double vote for minorities about it at some other time. The IDS has absolutely nothing against Professor Potočnjak or Mrs Racan, we have nothing against nor Mr. Šeparović. I personally believe that Mr. Šeparovic was a correct justice minister at a difficult time, much harder than this was in 2009. However, it is clear that we will have to choose three rather than four or five judges, and therefore I would really suggest that SDP and HDZ sort of agree, not to say friendly, let the public deprive themselves of the apparent uncertainty here. I think the choice is kind of expected. I think it will eventually pass by Mr Potočnj, Arlovic and Šeparovic. What is wrong with IDS, however, is that I rely on Mrs. Pusic's statement that Mrs. Juric is higher than anything she's done, so I dare say for the very credibility of the Constitutional Court she didn't get a chance for us to vote on it either. I personally think she deserved it, demystified myself to express myself as a modern choice, but that's how she kind of got herself out of the game. It is generally a reward in Croatia for who it is to express myself so right. Instead of someone thanking you, they're celebrating you and calling you a freak. Too bad this happened because it certainly lost the Constitutional Court to credibility. That means an institution that should be "unsullied" has one stain in it, not to mention the sword. You see these swords, unfortunately, have many of those political agreements, we know who were elected judges in '99. For years, we know what that store in this assembly looked like. Often the judges of the Constitutional Court were unable to rise above the daily policy, often it worked according to the principle of me to you, you to me, but this destruction of Mrs. Juric is at the very least, I would say the destruction of the credibility of an institution, and it certainly is not good. I would not have answered this word if I hadn't read a statement by HINA today, which literally states, here's the title "Juričić is tightly declared to the State Judiciary Council" and then it is said that "against the Judge of the Administrative Court of Mirjana Juric, who, in the general public, became known after being able to challenge the legality of last year's decision of the Croatian Parliament on the appointment of the Constitutional Judge Slavica Banic, to initiate a strict procedure on the proposal of the President of the Administrative Court of Justice, Ivica Kujundzic, it is found in the State Judicial Council,... a proposal for a strict procedure against Judge Juricic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The State Judiciary Council submitted ten days ago meaning the President of the Administrative Court, Secretary of the State Judicial Council Bojan Bulgaria, who did not want to discover why the judge was applied for, that is, for which a tight act is being charged" etc. According to media reports, Judge Juricic didn't know until yesterday about the tight procedure she learned from the press, HINA's signature. So, for the end of it, I don't want to speculate about it anymore. Once again, I'd really like to invite two of the strongest parties. Let them sort of sit down, make a deal, and let them propose, and then we'll see which candidates we'll support. I think it would be bad to obstruct this choice this time. But I repeat, if they are not representatives of the opposition in this assembly, then the IDS will be solidarity with them.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31960	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Zeljka Antunovic, vice president of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31961	Thank you very much. So I want to correct an incorrect quote that otherwise corrects my fellow Caine's exposure. And primarily because of the dignity of the two candidates, namely the candidate and candidate of the Constitutional Court, for the judges of the Constitutional Court, Ms Racan and Mr Arlovic. Namely, they are not SDP candidates, it is generally known that Mr Arlovic is a member of the SDP at present in the procedure of frozen membership and with the announcement of his exit from the SDP if elected, and Mrs Agatha Racan has never been a member of the SDP at least since I was there. And I don't think it's correct that two respected lawyers, a candidate for the Constitutional Court who knows everything, are putting this moment into something that doesn't fall under procedure and that absolutely isn't. They are not SDP candidates, they are running on their own and will be exposed to the vote in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31962	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. And I would like to ask the promoter, chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament and Vice-President of the House of Honored Vladimir Seks to give a final review on behalf of the motionor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31963	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. There was also a procedure for selecting judges of the Constitutional Court, which was particularly highlighted by Ms Vesna Pusic and proposed a delege referendum by changing the Constitution so that the procedure for selecting constitutional judges should be in part of the Croatian Assembly but on the proposal of the President of the Republic. It is a legitimate proposal, but it is clear that it can only come after and when and if there is a change to the Constitution in the exposed direction that Mrs Pusic has proposed here that the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court should appear. I'd like to show for a chronology the procedure for selecting judges of the 1990 Constitutional Court. the years to these days. In 1990, actually the first choice of judges of the Constitutional Court in the Republic of Croatia in the sovereign state of Croatia was made in December of '91. A year. The Croatian Parliament then elected judges of the Constitutional Court to the Commission's proposal for elections and appointments. That was '91. A year. After that, by 2001, the Constitutional Court judge proposed to the majority of votes the County House of the Parliament and after the proposal of the County House of the Croatian Parliament, elected judges of the Constitutional Court. By amending the Constitution in 2001 and by abolishing the County Hall during the County House's term, the first choice of judges of the Constitutional Court was made, but by procedure which was directly related to the Constitution. No amendments and additions to the Constitutional Court's Constitutional Order have been adopted, so it was simple that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System conducted the procedure directly on the basis of the constitutional provision in 2001. In that procedure, in March 2001, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system received 24 nominations, concluded that it proposed 3 candidates, previously established a narrow circle of 7 candidates, including a secret vote of 3 candidates and the Croatian Parliament elected 3 judges. In 2002, a procedure was conducted for selecting a judge of the Constitutional Court, but then already on the basis of the constitutional law adopted on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitutional Committee has received seven candidacys and concludes that it proposes one candidate who has been set by a secret vote in two rounds and has chosen one judge. In the adoption of 2001, the amendment and addition of the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, one of the focal, key points of the dispute between the then opposition and the position was whether the Constitutional Committee, because it was in the Constitutional Law proposal, should be the filter that will determine the narrow circle of candidates or the Constitutional Committee need all candidates, which the Constitutional Committee finds to meet the conditions that all candidates should be put to the vote. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, I stood up for a solution that all candidates whom the Constitutional Committee finds necessary and which meet the conditions, should go before the Assembly and that the Assembly votes and decides on them. Unfortunately, my proposal and the HDZ Representatives' Club were too loud because the position of SDP's Club of Representatives was accepted. Both the chairmans of the Committee on Legislatives, Ms Anticevic and, on behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Josip Lek, where they stood up for the position that the Committee on the Constitution should and must establish a narrow circle of candidates and that this narrow circle goes to the vote. Now during these discussions there has been a critical claim precisely why such a procedure that the Committee on the Constitution is one filter that determines the narrow circle of candidates and then goes before the Parliament. The procedure is related to the Constitutional Law Amendments and Supplements of 2001. However, in Article 6 of the Law, paragraphs 4 and 5 of the committee of directors lays down a list of candidates, which normally contains more candidates than the number of judges of the Constitutional Court elected and proposed, the Committee for the Constitution also submits a list of all candidates who meet the conditions for selecting judges of the Constitutional Court. Let us now return for a moment, that in 2001 and 2002 there are 24 candidates in 2001, and then the Committee on the Constitution, then in the hands of the current opposition, the chairman of the Committee Mr. Mato Arlović, then determines the 24th nominations, and in two rounds it goes through a secret vote to determine three candidates of 24 and therefore not all go but only three not 24, but only three go to the vote. It also receives 7 in 2004 and determines that only one is proposed, only one candidate is voted, the secret vote is chosen as judge of the Constitutional Court. In 2007, it is the choice of one Constitutional Court judge, the Constitutional Committee receives 4, concludes that it proposes 2 which determines by secret vote, none in the Croatian Parliament has received the necessary majority. In May 2007, a re-election of one Constitutional Court judge, the Constitution Committee receives three nominations, suggests two candidates who determine by secret vote, one has withdrawn the candidacy, the other has been proposed and elected. In July 2007, a procedure was conducted for the selection of 8 Constitutional Court judges, the board received 24 applications, concluded to propose 10 candidates who had been set by a secret vote, the Croatian Parliament elected 3 judges and in October 2007 a procedure for selecting five Constitutional Court judges, the board received 17, decided to propose 7 candidates who had been set by a secret vote, elected that the judge. Therefore, it is evident that in all these situations from 2001 to this last election, to this last election, including the previous election that preceded this election where there were 19 candidates who were identified and proposed to the Croatian Parliament that a smaller number put to the vote that it was always the same situation that the Committee for the Constitution proposed a narrowed number of candidates, therefore, that all candidates did not go to the vote. I think that and... Therefore, even in the future, we can also consider changing this legal provision even though the current legislative provision Articles 5 and 6. The Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia does not prevent the Constitution Committee from proposing all candidates who meet the requirements. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But in all the cases so far since 2001, the Constitutional Committee has decided to go towards that provision, to apply that provision of the Constitutional Court Act to which it will go with a narrowed list of smaller candidates. The reasons are that it is not for a large number of candidates in this way not to share votes and not to have no elections because 77 MPs are required most of the total number of representatives to elect a Constitutional Court judge, as, for example, happened when there was an election for 8 Constitutional Court judges where the Committee proposed 10 candidates and not elected 8 but 3 judges were elected because votes were divided. It was one logic since 2001 why the Committee on the Constitution and in that meeting when the Committee was now chaired by the opposition, not now when it is chaired by the Committee of Positions, why the Committee has opted for that variant to go to a narrow vote in the Croatian Parliament. But that's the thing of the future whether in the future it changes or changes some other provisions relating to the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court. And it certainly will be necessary to amend some of the provisions relating to the choice of the Constitutional Court judges, but those which are mainly related to the constitutional court's section. The Constitutional Court now has about 6,000 constitutional lawsuits and these amendments to the 2001 constitutional law have brought about this enormous inflation of pressure on the Constitutional Court, which has actually become one of the highest instance as regular judicial authorities. The Constitutional Court is not part of the judicial authority. He is a Sui Genis one institution, but numerous disputes end in the Constitutional Court following this Constitutional Law on the 2001 Constitutional Court. Today, one was held under the auspices of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, a scientific event at the Academy where prominent professors of constitutional law spoke, where the position of the Constitutional Court was discussed in light of possible constitutional changes. So as the Constitutional Court organises, as its part-round, the jurisdiction to achieve that it is truly the institution that will take care of constitutionality, which will establish the constitutionality of the law and other regulations with the Constitution, which will protect and guarantee the freedoms and rights of man and citizen through constitutional lawsuits, but to avoid what the Constitutional Court has now become, that it is to this end entrenched with disputes where Malta does not every dispute held by any party that can be brought before the Constitutional Court once the procedural provisions of the Constitutional Court are interpreted, it also comes before the Constitutional Court. And it is certainly therefore that, in the revision of the Constitution, and the working group of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has already received initiatives and formalised ideas on how to change through the change of the Constitution, how to stat the role of the Constitutional Court. And it will certainly be the subject within a very close period of constitutional and legal debates concerning the change of the Constitution for the third basket of amendments to the Constitution. The first two are those related to the closure of certain negotiating chapters for the European Union and the second basket is the one relating to the European Union’s own accession where certain amendments to the Constitution are also needed. And within this third basket, the role of the Constitutional Court will also be resolved and the role of the Constitutional Court can then be clearly and clearly considered and will be considered in particular in the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system as a central place to discuss and decide on all constitutional proposals, initiatives and ideas... in the Croatian Parliament to shape, to consider all these initiatives and proposals concerning the amendment of the Constitution and, of course, those relating to the Constitution regarding the work of the Constitutional Court and the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One more thing. You see, since the 1990s, '91. There have always been big debates over how to get a candidate for the Constitutional Court judges, so they were already the big polemics and the '91s. the years in the Commission for Elections, Appointments and then in the Croatian Parliament were always required for political parties to agree, and when they started agreeing and consulting on names, then part of the public declared it dishonest and trade. In all the discussions discussed so far concerning the election of Constitutional Court judges in general every year when, every time or every session about the election of candidates in the part of the public, a part of the political parties was asked and insisted that political agreement be reached and that the political agreement be based on both candidates and the election of Constitutional Judges. But then again, that medal had like Janus two faces. One face of the medal was mirrored in a request to conduct consultations and to conduct inter-party discussions, as a rule at the level of diplomatic manners, therefore not in some broad public. But the second face of the god Janus then revealed that it accused those who tried to get to those talks of such results for political trade, so for the most defiled political trade. Life's reality is no match in choosing the judges of constitutional courts or supreme courts of the United States that those political players, political actors in their one-off debates behind closed-down rules and rules. And when it's trying to do that with us, then we are immediately left and right and on all sides being accused of all those who enter into these agreements and talks, that it's political trade and are constantly being mentioned in '99. For years, that was a political trade. It wasn't about any political trade. It was simply a political conversation and a deal that two then and now, one in position, the other in the opposition, now in reverse, not to reach a common denominator around candidates and the election of judges of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, with all the imperfections, with all the problems that the whole process carries and the candidacys and elections for the judges of constitutional courts, the Croatian Parliament should be at that level to publicly express its commitment not to involve any political trade, any political thing that is unfair, which is not allowed, but to work on all actors involved in this process and running and choosing to listen to each other and to see what their intentions are, what the intensity of all the actors involved and their views towards the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court. Mr. Representative Damir Cain is the only one here who has been manifested and determined against individual candidates, others are not, others will do so through the vote institute and I hope that tomorrow's vote will be the result, that out of these five candidates will be elected those candidates who will truly meet all those conditions, all those assumptions and all those references that should be given to one judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. And as for these conditions for the Constitutional Court judges, there may also need a certain procedure because there is a relatively objective criterion, which is 15 years of legal experience. This is one with a high dose of probability objectively criteria, but should have cumulative and 15 years of working experience on legal matters and that this person has pointed out in professional, scientific or public action, which is quite more sociopolitical and extra-legal, out-of-law criteria, a group of criteria, and we will need to really consider whether and through the amendment of the Constitution and through the amendment of the Constitutional Court law to get as close as possible to objective criteria and measure as possible to reduce as little as possible, and which will never be able to be avoided in full, reduced political arbitration, which should be achieved by establishing these objective criteria. Here, ladies and gentlemen, and the vote on the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, all the votes in all the meetings of this committee, especially since 2001, and until this last one, has always shown when it came to, and it has always been about secret votes, has always shown what the ratio is, was a copy of the political sympathy that exists in this assembly as well. So it was always seen that one group and supported by certain candidates, group b supports other candidates, group c dances between one and the other. So in that interplay, the Tango group leads to a final result so I believe that tomorrow it will also take responsibility and position and opposition to elect judges of the Constitutional Court and that what may be somewhere Mr. Agent Cain may have thought of as some possible situation that no one will boycott tomorrow's election of Constitutional Court judges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31964	Thank you. And I'm closing the debate, and that concludes today's session because the points that were scheduled for today's agenda have been exhausted. We'll continue at 10:30 tomorrow with the vote. Among other things, we will also vote on the budget rebalancing and amendments that have been delivered, on the judges of the Constitutional Court and other points that we have discussed, by warning that some points require 102 votes, so I would ask you to be here at 10:30 tomorrow exactly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-02-0.u31965	We move to the Proposal for a decision on the selection of three judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The proposer is the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. The debate is closed. Since several candidates have been proposed, Article 231 will be implemented. The Rules of Procedure are a secret vote. The proposed candidate for the Constitutional Court judge is considered elected if voted for by the majority of the Croatian Parliament's representatives. That means at least 77. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that three MPs assist me in conducting a secret vote and I propose to Mrs Zdenko Chuhnil, Mr Ivan Hanžek and Mr Emil Tomljanović. Any other suggestions? If we don't, please state by raising our hands. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Against? One. Is one against it or not? It's not. So unanimous. In the case of a secret vote, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of Articles 231 to 238 shall apply. A secret vote shall be held on ballots. The ballots are the same size, colors and shapes and are certified by the Assembly's seal. The candidate's name list lists them in alphabetical order. The ballots are being prepared by the Secretary of Parliament. The President shall also be assisted by a number of representatives appointed by the Secretary of Parliament in secret voting. MPs who help the president conduct a secret vote hand over to voters. The handover of the ballot is recorded on the list of MPs by rounding up a regular number in front of the name of the MP who handed him the ballot. The number of ballot boxes and places to be set shall be determined by the Secretary of Parliament. The vote in each ballot box is attended by one of the representatives elected to assist the president. The MP can only vote on one ballot in person. The MP votes by rounding up a regular number in front of the candidate's name. A ballot rounding a regular number in front of the name of a larger number of candidates than the number elected is considered invalid. So if you round up 4 or more. An unfulfilled ballot, as well as a ballot with new names, i.e. a ballot that is so filled that it cannot be determined with certainty which candidate was voted by the MP. After all the present deputies handed over ballots and after the chairman announced that the vote had been completed, he moved to determine the results of the vote in the session hall. The results of the vote shall be determined by the chairman in the presence of the representatives who helped him vote. The chairman shall announce how many MPs have received ballots, how many MPs have voted in total, how many invalid ballots there have been and how many MPs voted in favour of the election, or the appointment of an individual candidate. Furthermore, the chairman shall declare which candidates have been elected or appointed. So I'm determining according to everything I've said to a 45-minute break. The ballot boxes and ballots are in front of the assembly. After the vote, please return to the assembly to determine the results of the vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, then 45 minutes. That means in 13.20 it should all be over. After the commission or three MPs who counted the votes, all of these are the situations concerning the election of judges of the Constitutional Court. I announce that out of the 153 voters, 142 MPs have received a total of 142 out of 153. 141 MPs voted, so one of these did not vote who received the ballots. There were no wrong ballots. For candidate Matu Arlovic, 74 MPs voted. Fifty MPs voted for candidate Zeljko Potočnjak. For candidate Agatha Racan, 60 MPs voted. 11 MPs voted for candidate Milan Radakovic. 92 MPs voted for candidate Miroslav Separovic. I declare that Mr Miroslav Šeparovic has been elected by the Constitutional Court judge of the five proposed. Here, there are members of the committee. Thank you very much. I'm closing the session. I would like to inform you that the next session of the Croatian Parliament will be after 20 May, so there will be a Big Week, elections, etc., so after 20 May, we will determine, when it is in time you will know. The session of the Commission of Investigation on the acquisition of 39 vehicles for the needs of the MARH will be held at 13.45 p.m. in hall 84 today, so on April 3rd at 13.45 p.m. in Hall 84, President of the Commission Nenad Stazic. Thank you.
