ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26554	We are going to - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Roads, first reading, P.Z. 193 Proposer of the Law is SDP's Club of Representatives. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure shall apply to the adoption of this Law the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the Law. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Proposer representative, Mr Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26555	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. These amendments and additions to the Law on Public Roads of the Club of Representatives of the SDP suggest a supplement in Article 63 relating to the reduction of the tolls for the use of highways and buildings with charge: bridge, tunnel, viaduct, etc., for vehicles with reduced fuel consumption and means of transport leading to reduced traffic consumption: motorcycles, smaller light vehicles, vehicles with less fuel consumption, etc. This initiative is driven by citizens' initiative, motorcyclists, who feel it is not fair to pay tolls on highways as well as private cars because they are currently in the same first group of vehicles. After the SDP proposal, which has been on the agenda for several months, the government has given consent to the Croatian highway society to decide on the level of the toll and toll system for the use of highways. The decision of 1 March 2009 introduces a new group, the first A motorcycle group, motor tricycles, four cycles, and this group will pay toll 40% less than the first car group. We are pleased that this proposal has encouraged and pressured the government to reduce its toll by 50% after a few years by motorcyclists, but as well as motorcyclists' associations, and we believe that the government should have reduced the toll for motorcyclists by 50% compared to the first group of vehicles. And together with them, we insist on it, and we feel it is necessary to accept this proposal. The fact is that motorcycles do not damage highways as much as other vehicles from the first group. They have 2 wheels, not 4, and their weight is 150 to 250 kilograms, which is up to 10 times less than the weight of cars that now pay the same toll as motorcycles. The second reason for the proposal for this addition of the Law on Public Roads lies in security. As the Republic of Croatia remains at the top of the blacklist by the number of deaths in transport, we hold that supplementing Article 63 on public roads, which proposes to reduce motorcycle toll by 50%, would help reduce both the number of accidents and the number of road deaths. We suggest that because the solution is one of the more concrete measures that should reverse the negative trends in the number of killed in traffic, as the reduction of motorcyclists' toll would target a lot more motorcycles from local roads to highways, and official data is also known to confirm that the most motorcyclists get hurt on local roads. On the highway there's no crossing across a full line, in a turn and so on. which is a perfectly normal phenomenon on local roads. On local roads, something or someone can fly out and stop the road, tractors, and cars that most often do not notice that their bike is starting to meet them. Severe injuries in these cases are almost guaranteed, and the highway still carries some restrictions and there is no take-off of other vehicles from the side roads. Also, it never occurred that someone was responding when a motorcyclist was injured because of the condition in which the road is located. It should certainly include criminal liability for some of the irregularities on the roads, such as for the missing cap of the shah, a deep hole in the asphalt, etc. I don't remember anyone ever mentioning in the media that during the design, construction and maintenance of roads, the population on two wheels was also taken care of. We believe that through the proposed amendments to the Law on Public Roads, the current legal framework would be brought closer to the standards used by the countries of the European Union and beyond. In European countries where the use of highways is particularly paid, the practice is different when it comes to classifying motorcycles in a specific category of payment. For example, in Norway and Slovakia motorcyclists do not pay tolls, and in Ireland, Estonia, Andorra, Finland, Denmark, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany does not pay tolls. In many other European and world countries, motorcyclists do not pay the price of tolls as well as personal cars, and therefore we believe that in Croatia we should also allow less tolls by 50% compared to the first group, and thus help and safety on the roads, and most importantly reduce the number of deaths. And finally, Secretary of State, if you've already copied our bill, you could have copied it to the end and we suggest you copy it to the end and give the motorcyclists 50% less toll, and we will surely support you in that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26556	Thank you. Does a representative of the government want an extra one? State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Mr Drazen Breglec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26557	Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we had opportunities on this subject and I personally had the opportunity to say a few sentences during last debate on amendments and amendments to the Law on Public Roads when we found that, on the proposal of the Croatian Highways Administration, the Government gave consent, which also mentioned here, the elaborated idea in the law has actually become legal, has become valid, has become an integral part of the legislative framework in a way that has been said by the promoter himself, which is that a new group of vehicles 1a consisting of motorcyclists and related vehicles and which has 40% lower prices. I can stress on this observation that it is not true that the government is the solution, or Croatian highways, that they initiated this solution, and the government has confirmed by a decision such as this after the SDP initiative and their law, because this initiative has been discussed and discussed for years. Motorcyclists have occasionally stepped up such an initiative during the previous entire period, and the government has been waiting for the right moment of such, or Croatian highways, and the government has adopted. But as I said last time, I repeat now. I think it's less important who suggested it, that it's much more important that one good initiative, one good principle that we can all agree on, which is that one who contributes less to the waste of highways, the spending of highways, that he pays less certainly that motorcyclists do not make less or spend the highway, and so justly that they pay less, and even a height of 40 or 50% is not so decisive and big. I think, therefore, that in this case we are about the same attitude and Croatian highways that the Government has also proposed, which gave its consent in accordance with the applicable Public Roads Act, and this proposal does not differ significantly. From November 27th, when the decision was proposed until December 24th when it also received its confirmation at the Government, it is in effect, and will apply from March 1st, while in the meantime for users, the owners of motorcycles that traffic on the highway are scheduled and an appropriate 40% discount so that it is implemented already now. I would also take this opportunity to make clear about the proposal for a conclusion related to this point, although in one part the promoter tried to link this issue to the road safety issue in my opinion by misrepresenting that motorcyclists would go to the highways if the highway was smaller. On the contrary, motorcyclists as far as we're going together don't want to use highways because the highway on the bike is extremely difficult, boring, even dangerous if you want to do it the other way around. Motorcyclists are looking for highways where there's content next to it. Excuse me, the road where there is content, where there is an interesting environment and where one can be found, we can all agree on a suitable ride to achieve the pleasure that a motorcycle ride brings. However, the conclusion that the government could be manifested around this conclusion requires further clarification, or possibly little modification. Because he moves from the domain of the Law on Public Roads to the domain of the Road Safety Act and suggests that the Government be obliged to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament within 30 days on the implementation of the National Road Safety Programme of the Republic of Croatia. It is not disputed and I would like to express myself positively here on this initiative that the Government, the Croatian Parliament, reports on the implementation of the National Road Traffic Safety Programme. What is controversial is in a statement that, in accordance with the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament of 30 May, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit a report once a year to the Croatian Parliament on the implementation of the National Road Traffic Programme, which is a completely different matter. If the Law on Public Roads is called for and a report on the implementation of the National Programme is likely to build roads, then it is one thing, and if a report on the implementation of the National Road Safety Programme is required, then it is the conclusion that it is another thing. So when the proposer decides between one or the other and agrees with the proposal with an explanation, the government will manifest itself. I can now say that the conclusion as such could be acceptable, and that in that case the explanation should be adequately followed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26558	Thank you. We have a correction, Mr. Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26559	Your Honor, Secretary of State. It is not true that the government has not made a decision on our initiative. On November 19th, it was handed over, this bill was handed over in the procedure. On November 27th last year, you made that decision. So, it's not exactly the finding that you've made.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26560	Correction Mr. Representative Sima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26561	Thank you very much. Well, I think the secretary of state has established a little bit of a strange finding, and it says that the government is going to be clear about something. Mr. Secretary of State, this is the Croatian Parliament. This House is making some kind of conclusion. The government needs to, the government needs to meet that conclusion. We reached a conclusion in the fifth month last year. With this conclusion, we only reminded, or suggested that this point should be discussed, that it should be realised. Now, the question is whether or not the government will provide us with that information. That's all it's about.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26562	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Ivan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26563	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Subject proposal to amend the Law on Public Roads comes from the assumption that according to the applicable regulations of the Republic of Croatia motorcycles are classified in the same group of vehicles and pay the same toll as personal cars. Although the fact that motorcycles damage highways and roads is less and not as much as other vehicles, it is also necessary to say in the world, as well as in Croatia, that cars are getting smaller, and engines are getting bigger and ask yourself what is the difference from the big engine with 4 wheels and Fiat 500 for example, our popular "Fice". This is the problem, the government saw the time followed by the government's decision, which was given to Autoceste d.o.o. at a session held on 27 November 2008. agreeing to a decision on the level of toll and toll collection system for the use of highways based on the decision of 1 March 2009 of the new A1 vehicle group for motorcycles, tricycles and four-cycles as well as toll for that new toll group for the first group of vehicles. Therefore, a 40% discount relative to the first group of vehicles in the transitional period until 28 February 2009 which will still be classified as the first group of vehicles due to significant investments that follow in the highway charging system, both on Croatian highways and on the highways managed by concession companies. Croatian highways have introduced a new subscription product for motorcycles since 1 December 2008, a 40% discount on smart card. The same discount via the smart card for motorcycles applies to the concession company Autocesta Rijeka-Zagreb from 1 December 2008, as well as to other concession companies. The Bina-Istra concession company has also introduced a new category of vehicle 1A motorcycles, tricycles and four-cycles that charge 40% lower toll than category A1 since 1 December 2008. Since 1 March 2009, all highways in the Republic of Croatia will be subject to a new 1A group, vehicles with a charge of 40% lower than tolls paid for by first group vehicles. The new criteria for classifying vehicles into charging groups are in line with the Road Safety Act. In the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community, the following opinion is that the proposed Law on the Completion of the Law on Public Roads should not be accepted for the reason why it is proposed to set a lower price of tolls for motorcycles and small and light vehicles covered by the already stated solution of the connected and harmonised method of determining the level of toll in accordance with Article 62(3) and in relation to Article 63(2). Public road laws. As a result, we believe that these issues are consummated by the government's proposal and by the decision of the administration of the highway society and we will not support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26564	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26565	I'm correcting the allegations of fellow MPs who said that engines are getting bigger nowadays, cars are getting smaller. It's just not true. Who could ride a 500-pound motorcycle or half a ton?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26566	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, Mr. Representative Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26567	Dear President of the Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. As you know, 5.12. last year we adopted amendments to the Law on Public Roads, which partially harmonizes the existing law with the European Toll Directives. I say, it partially harmonizes because if it synchronises fully, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who travel on roads on which tolls are charged, they would have less toll costs, so they could enjoy the landscape they are going through more often, head to their destination and not travel the bad and winding local roads because the tolls are too expensive. Unfortunately, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure has skipped or refused to see 2 important articles of Directive 2006/38 of the European Parliament and of the Council since 17 May 2006 and this Article 7 paragraph 9, I quote "Cestarines are based solely on the principle of return of infrastructure costs. This means that quantifiable average tolls are related to the construction costs and to the costs of the maintenance and development of the infrastructure network concerned.", the end of the quote. If this article of the European Directive had been incorporated into our law, our tolls would not have been the same after 20 years of highway construction, they would have been reduced by the time and the cost of their construction. Article 7a(1), I quote "In determining the level of measurable average tolls charged on a given infrastructure network or on a clearly defined part of that network, Member States shall take into account the different costs of work, maintenance and development of the infrastructure network concerned. The costs to be taken into account relate to the network or part of the network on which tolls are collected and to vehicles which charge those tolls. Member States may decide not to reimburse these costs as toll revenue, or to return only a certain percentage of those costs.", the end of the quote. The inauguration of this European directive in our law would mean that the state does not punish, not discriminate against the citizens of some part of Croatia in which the section of the highway was more expensive than elsewhere, so it charges them more toll, but uses the principle of solidarity by which the tolls would be the same regardless of the costs of the contractors or the financing model. The introduction of this European directive into our law would mean that toll in Croatia is no longer an element of inequality among the citizens of our country. Today it is an element of inequality among the citizens of our country and is not the same on all highways in Croatia. It differs depending on the concessionaries who manage them, Croatian highways, highways Rijeka-Zagreb, Bina-Istra and the Zagreb-Macelj highways. I am a parliamentary representative of Zagorje, and part of this debate in the context of the problem, I will use the public to learn about the great injustice that is done by the authorities to Zagorje on highways through Zagorje, tolls on it and unfulfilled promises by the authorities to build a free alternative road from Zabok to Krapina. The most convincing toll on highways in Croatia is on the Zaprešić-Macelj, a concessionary of Zagreb-Macelj d.o.o. The introduction of that European directive into our law would mean that citizens, drivers in Krapina-Zagorje County, are not discriminated against by drivers from other parts of Croatia. And now they are, because they pay once more toll than anyone in Croatia. Namely, on the other highways in Croatia, the road toll per km for private vehicles is from 0.35 to 0.41 kuna per km, and on the Zagreb-Macelj highway this price is from 0.68 to 0.79 kuna per km. In the Ministry of Transport, they explain that we have the most expensive toll because the Concession Society of the Zagreb-Macelj Autoroad has independently secured loans for construction and is independently responsible for their payment. So that's the level of toll that'll make it possible for them. It is because this highway through Zagorje was expensive and was built by a foreign concessionaire, but today the price of building one HAC km of other Croatian highways stands about as much as the price of building AZM kilometers through Zagorje, yet our mile is more expensive once. Although our salaries are 20% less than in Croatia. With this kind of approach with the price of toll that is out of mind, it will soon happen that only foreigners will travel through it, and the local population will tear up local dangerous roads and die on them. I ask the question, when will most Zagorjes stop traveling on the highway? Does that mean that the minority who can pay the toll from the current 21 kuna for a 31km journey on the road from Krapina to Zapresic will pay the price of 30, 50 or 100 kuna, because it will then take so long to cover the loans for its construction with a much smaller number of vehicles on the highway. Is that the logic of the Croatian government? Push that toll to the sky as long as it takes to cover the cost of highway construction. If so, and for the time being, the government does not show the opposite, then the Zagorci are clearly second-class citizens in Croatia. Suckers from the hills who need to keep quiet and pay. In the debate on tolls, we also asked for the development of a stimulating toll model, so that as many freight vehicles as possible use highways and thus reduce the pressure and number of accidents on local and county roads on which freight vehicles go because their tolls are too expensive. In the case of tolls for freight vehicles, the difference with the Zagorska highway and other highways in Croatia is even greater than with tolls for private vehicles. And watch out now, in December, Minister Calmete's decision that all freight carriers in Croatia get a 20 per cent discount of cocoa would stimulate them to use highways. Not only in Zagorje on the Zaprešić-Macelj highway, where and so far tolls for freight by then, tolls for freight transport and more than once more expensive than anywhere else in Croatia. Croatia is the state of Zagorac, we just want the same treatment as the Zagreb, the Primors or the Dalmatians. I ask you fellow MPs, I ask citizens drivers from other parts of Croatia, would anyone be on the highway from Zagreb to Split if the toll was 300 kuna? And that's what it would be like to charge them a toll per mile on that highway like we did in Zagorje. Would anyone be driving down that highway then? Of course, now you can ask a question, so why are you Zagorci driving around in it if you don't pay if it's too expensive for you? It's an answer. Because we have to, because the state took away our alternative, free state road, put it in one lane of a new highway, left us free of free alternative road, which is a world traffic precedent and a dirty procedure for Zagorci. The alternative road was to be built by the start of the toll collection system on the highway in February 2006 when it was not and when we did not receive free toll, we rebelled, protested, and then received a promise that the road would start building in early 2007 in the continuity of construction, so it was realistic to expect that it would be built by the end of 2007. Here we are in 2009, not even the road papers are solved yet, let alone driving around it. We've been cheated. We didn't get any free toll or promised alternative road. We're asking a simple question. Why should we Zagorci pay more expensive toll out of our empty pockets? Let the necessary difference be paid to the concessionaire by the Croatian State, which also has a 49% ownership stake in the concession society. It's not our citizens' fault this part of the highway worked more expensive in some other financial model. Even though this is no longer a valid argument, the highway to Split was not cheaper than Zagorska, and now all other highways are as expensive as Zagorska. And they don't even have near as much pepper toll as we do. Be careful, for illustration I did not mention the comparison for driving from Zapresic to Krapina spend the petrol for 15 kuna and pay the toll of 21 kuna. Gas 15, toll 21. The state did not want to install European provisions on fairness and equality in tolls in our law, although it would facilitate the journey and life of our citizens through reduced and uniform tolls. No, because it's obviously the goal of us citizens, and that's what some citizens pay more and more. Where's the border? It was also requested in the last debate to introduce lower tolls for motorcycles with the same aim, that they are more on safe highways and less on dangerous local roads. The fact is that such an initiative has a lot of justification because motorcycles with two wheels and a small weight and tenfold smaller than cars certainly do not damage the road as well as personal cars. The introduction of an incentive toll model for eco-acceptable vehicles as a type of incentive to buy the same or adapt existing vehicles to alternative fuels has also been requested. We remind you that the HNS Club in this context recently requested an amendment, i.e. the suspension of the discriminatory provision laid down in the Regulation on the level of annual compensation for the use of public roads towards which the owner of the gas-powered vehicle during the registration of the vehicle, so that every year and every 12 months in advance, pays 550 kuna more than the owner of the vehicle on a petrol or diesel drive. The additional fee is even bigger for freight vehicles, buses and the like, and amounts to 2 thousand kunas. None of our demands have been accepted because the promoter believes that these claims reduce the amount of money now the state budget, state-owned companies and concessionaries receive from the road traffic base. Yes, a toll reduction would have a negative but only very short-term effect on the reduction of state finances. Soon, however, these losses would be compensated by an increased volume of traffic on highways, less road accidents and less detachment to treat the consequences of the accident in the health system to less road life loss. That is why we have no illusion that this SDP logical proposal on relief for certain categories of vehicles will be accepted, especially motorcycles. In order to adopt the proposed legislation on reduced tolls for certain categories of vehicles, they should be applied immediately on all highways in Croatia and so on in our extraterrestrial Zagorje. But no, there will be no law required for all but things will be dealt with by selective government decisions that will make it easier for example to have motorcyclists on highways operated by Croatian highways and concessions of highways Rijeka-Zagreb and Bina-Istra but probably not the concessionary of the Zagreb-Macelj highway. Gentlemen from the government, and Zagorje is Croatia, isn't it? I conclude, the legislator who would leave a few kunas more in the pockets of Croatian drivers has the support of the Croatian People's Party, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26568	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26569	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I must intervene and correct several incorrect allegations. It is incorrect that it is discrimination against this state and this authority against the Zagorci because it is your then minister and today your party's president has signed a concession contract resulting from what is going on. And let me tell you right now, in that concession contract, it even states that it commits itself not to build any parallel roads that would reduce traffic on the highway. However, this authority has decided that it will be built and is now in the design phase of the connecting road, alternative road or a fast road between Krapina and Zabok, so if you don't know, here's your information now. And the third thing, until that road is built and you haven't said it, is that this government has decided to finance 60% of the toll on that part that needs to be built until the new alternative road is built. So that's what you should say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26570	Thank you. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Mr. Drazen Breglec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26571	Thank you. Mr. President. After this intervention there is less to correct but I want to point out here that the tolls on the parts controlled by the state via the Government of the Republic of Croatia, means in Croatian highways and highways Rijeka-Zagreb are uniform both per km and comparable to other and similar duties in European countries. The second thing is, of course, to the tolls of which are owned by concession companies, private concession companies whose rights stem from contracts signed at the time they are signed. It was specifically stated when the concession company Zagreb-Macelj was awarded a contract and a provision from which the price of the toll can be raised was also then respected, so we witnessed a short increase in the price of the toll precisely on that stock that stems from the right of the contract signed right at the time when Mr. Cacic was minister. So, as contracts should be respected in the rule of law, this is now a direct consequence, and perhaps it is good that you have warned of a practice that here your consequences show only a few years later. Also, the discount on the local population to drive that highway is such that it makes that road acceptable for daily use, and certainly, here we all agree, the long-term solution is building a connecting road that will enable the whole and alternative direction of one modern infrastructure of Zabok-Krapin. According to information from colleagues preparing in the Croatian highways, the plan to build Croatian highways for the next five-year period will be in the first half, so immediately at the start of the plan both in the plan and included and in practice. However, as regards the application of the Directive on the fact that toll costs must be maintained in a realistic way of tolling on Croatian highways, they do not include and that they are oriented and motivated or set up in a way that can justify in an economic way the cost of construction, but rather the tolls are far below that criterion, because, as we know, concession companies owned by the state are financed by good work and borrowing, they are financed by good work and by the state budget, and only one third from the fee, or from the tolls they collect from their use. And it's a completely wrong thesis that tolls can be reduced after several decades of highway use. You have probably noticed that very often repairs are done, that very often work and rebuilding, that practically the whole asphalt layer must be renewed after a certain time, after a certain traffic. And certainly, I will tell you exactly and vice versa with this latest increase in prices that the Zagreb-Macelj highway carried out this increase was justified by increased traffic and thus increased costs of maintenance of that stock. So even after 20 years, it is only then and before that it is necessary to invest in infrastructure and these are the costs that must, of course, be installed and financed by someone. If we're going to do it out of the budget, if we're going to do it out of debt, if we're going to do it out of toll. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26572	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative of Shime Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26573	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State, so as far as the discussion of fellow HNS colleagues is concerned, although it is not directly related to this part of the amendment and the addition of the law, as regards me personally and I believe the SDP club you have our full support, in that sense that you should probably go with the amendments and additions of the law. Because I think it's inadmissible that one kilometer of highway at one end of the country costs one amount, and on the other end of the country another amount. Whether it's owned by a state or a concessionary. And I don't think the citizens are interested in who signed that contract any more today. The state is one, the state is Croatia, so if it wants to remove this kind of discrimination, it can not take care of who signed it. Otherwise, we can now talk about what was 10, 15 or 8 years ago, but the problems will still remain. I'd like to go back to the law proposed by the SDP club. Says the secretary of state that the government has not responded to the SDP initiative. And it doesn't matter to me whose initiative the government reacted to, but the fact is that different moto associations have spoken to the MPs in this House asking for help because the government hasn't responded in years. But the interesting fact is, I'd like the secretary of state to explain to us how that car has four cars, engine two, how it got to $40? Why didn't you get to 60%, 20%? Why aren't you, I mean, why are you 40%? Well, I'm convinced that the government went with a 40% proposal just to keep it from being 50%, because 50% suggests a SDP club and 50% are looking for biker associations. The reason why we continue to insist on this law, and for the simple reason why, because the people we contacted, from different bacterial associations, said they stayed with their proposal, so they brought us a whole list of different situations and prices across Europe. It turns out that bikers pay the most expensive toll in Croatia. Now I'm going back to one of the key motives why the SDP club went with this bill. It's not just a small waste of the road to save some money, it's mostly road safety. It's true and the secretary of state said well that bikers prefer to be, is, slow driving through some landscapes, but it still depends on whether you're driving a pack or something.. You won't agree with that because he likes fast, he likes fast rides. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it is obvious that this fact does not stand, because on shorter shares bikers, at least they have told us so, using or using more, and I hope now that after this law or decision the Government will use more highways. And the fact is and you can check it out in the interior ministry statistics, much less bikers die on highways, or have, they experience traffic accidents than it is on small country, or state or county roads. So one of the reasons why we went with this is because when we discussed the Safety Act on Croatian Roads, or on roads, one constant was constantly withdrawing, and this is that more and more of the motorists die in Croatia. Among other things, we felt that this would in such a way be a small contribution to actually reducing that number of accidents through the national programme. Therefore, Secretary of State, we took this opportunity because it is also a matter of security that in connection with the conclusion of this Parliament from the fifth month last year we revive that conclusion, it is now a year that we have proposed, but if you remember another conclusion and then there would be no ambiguity. And that conclusion reads that we think that the grave of security on Croatian roads should be owned by the Ministry of Transport and not by the Ministry of Security. And you're right about that part that the conclusion doesn't directly connect to the Law on Public Roads, but you can't tell me that there's nothing to do with public roads and the Croatian Parliament has the right to reach such a conclusion. Well, you see, why would I want this law passed in the SDP, so you know what happens tomorrow? Tomorrow, roads, or the Croatian government, may decide that it will no longer be 50%. We would simply like to make the Croatian Parliament active in Croatian politics and pass such a law. So, I'm finishing up, I'd like to be answered why 40%, why not 50 or 20%. And is there a danger, let's say, that this decision is changed and that there is a possibility that other concessionaries will accept that 50% and 40% of the tolls are paid when bikers are involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26574	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26575	Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State, gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, no matter what, it doesn't make sense that engines have to pay the same toll as cars. I can agree as Mr. Lucin agreed with the secretary of state to drive a motorcycle on the highway, let's say it's dangerous under quotes, that it's not as attractive as on some local roads, when you get into the tunnel then your head is like a balloon, as if you've been pounding all day before when the car next to you is about to fall. And that's why, among other things, motorcyclists probably prefer to ride the local ones on the county roads, I don't know what I'm gonna call them, but rather what they're doing on the highways. Clearly, this ride is certainly far, far and more attractive. However, injustice exists and will exist until the moment, for example, until the motorcyclists separate themselves from the motorists. Neither cars, Mr. Secretary of State, pay tolls like trucks or buses, or buses pay tolls on our highways like this. They pay for the big booties. On the other hand, I disagree with the HDZ Club's representative that cars are getting smaller, engines are getting bigger. The truth is that cars are getting bigger and the engines are also getting bigger, but it's just that the difference between one and the other is getting further away, clearly in favour of the car, but it's absolutely irrelevant. However, I simply don't see why this proposal by an opposition party would not have been adopted. This proposal, and even I dare say, Bennigan, is deprived of any political background, it does not touch the financial capacities of neither the state budget nor the Croatian highways. It is similar or based on some European principles and it is certainly ultimately useful for those who own engines and intend to drive these highways. What is an absurd squared, which the secretary of state does not say, is that on some highways owned by the Croatian state or Croatian highways, for example, motor tolls are reduced, and elsewhere it is the same as for cars. It's just an absurd squared, like if you were to. Electricity in Buzet and Split paid differently, which does not mean that it will not soon, as if one VAT in this country in Buzet or Split is paid differently, as if another state tax or imposing in one city is paid in one tariff, and elsewhere significantly different. What I also want to do when we talk about these illogicalities, apostropherate or when some MPs are talking about injustice, we have now heard the representative of the HNS Club higher and more of these tolls on the road from Zapresic towards Macelj, so I want to apostrophe the case of the tunnel through Učka where the motorists pay for that 28 kuna pass. So the tunnel is about 5200 meters away and 28 kunas should be singled out for that passage in one direction. But someone thinks it may be the biggest absurdity in Croatia, but it is not. There is another one in Istria where the bridge to cross Mirna pays, for about a mile or so, is no less than for 14 kuna cars. And now I'm really asking myself why the Istrians pay for something that is not paid anywhere in Croatia. Let's say this bridge across the Mirna Bridge. It's like someone, for example. charges in this country a bridge over, here in Zagreb, the Sava Bridge. Why does that seem? Well, that seems likely because it is one of the few roads that is done through concession in Croatia, I mean the Istrian Ipsion. All other roads or almost all of them are financed either by the state budget or by the resources of the Croatian highways. However, I am also asking myself whether it is fair for all that burden to bring down the construction of this Istrian ipsilon on the Istrians. Of course not. The same thing was, for example, during the restoration of the Istrian bank, the Istrians had to do it themselves. At the time of the oil rescue and not counting any further. Other billions of kunas, and the Istrians must stand out for what is elsewhere or is being built or renovated or financed by the Croatian State. That's how it was even at the Hall in Poreč, but I'm not opening the topic right now. How much is the toll when we drive from Rijeka to Zagreb? 60 kuna. 60 kunas for approximately 180 or 170 km, and on that track I'm sure we have over 10 km of tunnels, we certainly have more than 10 km of bridges, overpasses and so forth. If that were the case in Istria, then the Istrians would pay more than 180 kuna on such a single section of the tunnel’s logic, or bridge. Here, that's what I call an eclectic example of an injustice that leads to one space. Of course, when we talk about this law, motorists can't pay tolls like cars do, but we Istrians shouldn't be second-class citizens either. So much, and that is the point, all Croatian citizens should pay one average price of highways, one average price of tunnels, a bridge, etc. and that is why it is important to introduce this principle or to refer to these European directives. So one principle translated average prices. So let's say tomorrow, why does it have to be introduced? Let's just say the Istrians wouldn't pay 100 km of the Istrian Ipsilon three times or four times more than they pay toll from Rijeka to Zagreb. It then divides the citizens of the first order into the citizens of the second order, then it is not even a constitutional category, it is an eclectic example of injustice towards the residents of one space. And a space, such as Istria, suffers such an injustice, is freely said, from there in '95, '96. over here. It's a far more serious problem at this point, let's say, from the motorists' problems. I'll do it again. We had to resuscitate the Istrian Bank ourselves, the city of Pula wrote off over 80% of its budgetary capacity in '98. One olive tree, and don't let me count any further. If that hadn't happened, say Puljština could have roads or could have roads like Austria, not to exaggerate and not to say like Switzerland. The same thing was when you were building a sports hall in Poreč. True, the state gave the i.e. Returned to Poreč 24 hectares of so-called agricultural land that was in '92, '93. Nationalized. The city sold it, built a hall, built a detour, opened 200 jobs along the way, I guess something small, but everywhere else these halls worked with cash, and that's a crime to one of the overindebted and all the necessary countries. Finally, the motorists' problem clearly needs to be corrected. But I also claim that this attitude towards an Istrian citizen should be changed. I'd like to sign in advance that Istriane, when it comes to toll, is exploited just like my colleague from the HNS just said as Zagorce. But there are bigger Zagoracs in this country, and these are obviously Istrians. What's absurd is the price for trucks on Ucka. Trucks according to our laws should have some alternative road. Unfortunately, we or they don't have that alternative road. I, for example, can cross Učka with a car, can also cross Opatija, or Lovran, through Slovenia for a few more days until they do another retegorization of a border crossing in Istria or until they block our roads. But the trucks, gentlemen, can't. Then those tolls are mostly from the truck that they're affecting. They're affecting the union basket, the price of food. Because everything is finally being transferred, clearly to that final customer or consumer. To end what else to say, treat us as you treat Zagoreca. Treat us however you want, as French, English, Italian. There must be a toll three times for the same things cheaper than it is in Istria. Treat us, treat us like Martians, but don't treat us like we're not part of Croatia. And this practice is simply 28 kn for Učka tunnel, 14 kn for this bridge. An insult to every inhabitants of Istrian space. Treat us like a Bodule, like a Christian. When someone from Krk goes to the mainland or vice versa, he doesn't pay for the bridge. But why do we Istrians have to pay those 14 kn when we cross the Mirna? Someone will say so you can walk. That way we can walk it. The Christian can swim clearly, too. I don't stand for it, nor for them to swim on the bridge, nor for us to walk across the bridge. I only stand for one thing to treat us the same way. Since there will certainly be nothing in this country in due time, at least the Secretary of State maintain the roads in Istria. Now a Istrian ipsion is being built. This road from Zminj down towards Pula is absolutely destroyed and at least make sure that when spring comes that same road is changed by a new asphalt. For the end. The law is logical. Mr. Markovanovic, here you go. The law is logical. We support that law, but also don't make that distinction between citizens I'll call them first and second-row citizens at least when it comes to tolls, bridges, tunnels, they should all be the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26576	Thank you. We've got corrections. First is Mr. Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26577	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting the inaccuracies of fellow Cain that expensive tolls and tunnels are laid down on the back of Istrian. The fact is that it is also on the back of Istria, because many people living in Istria call themselves Istrani, not Istrians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26578	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26579	He doesn't know Istria, so I won't replicate it. You don't know Istria!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26580	Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26581	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting Mr. Cain's incorrect claim, which I really do not know by which time I have mentioned that Istria is threatened, that the citizens of Istria are second-class, that the toll is inappropriate. And all I'm going to say is that we're all using both the fast road and the highway for years, and we're paying the toll, and at the same time we know that there are houses built all the way to Istria 10 years ago where you also rebelled that you don't have to pay the same road that you should have. Well, you're already free of tolls and you can't say for sure that you're in a different position without talking about the investments of the Croatian highways, this government. Because so far it has never really been invested as it is now in Croatian highways, especially in Istria. And the construction, and the extension of the ipsilon really speaks of how much this Croatian government commits to building roads in Istria, and I often come there, so don't tell lies here in this House and don't deceive the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26582	For the last time, I asked MPs and MPs to ease their expressions. Let's say you can't say you shouldn't tell lies, but maybe you're not telling the truth to the end. That would be a little easier, but it would achieve the same effects. And now we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26583	In line with Articles 209 and 14, for one is a lie not to tell a lie. The truth is, the houses are built but for which are built toll houses, to charge toll on a fast road of 3 plus 3 meters wide. Well, that's nowhere to be found, except it's supposed to be in Istria. And clearly we fought not to pay what no one in the Republic of Croatia pays. We were just asking to be treated like other citizens in this country. That's what we did. Unfortunately, at this bridge or tunnel we do not succeed, but there will be a day when both up and on Mirna will be paid less than is paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26584	This was not an injury to the Rules of Procedure, but a replica, or to a representative who corrected the incorrect allegations. So this institute has been misused in this case. We have a correction to Mr. Krunoslav Markovnović's incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26585	I'm sorry, Mr. President, but I have to thank Mr. Cain for giving me his word because he announced it from the pay phone. The correction is this, that Mr. Cain insists that Croatia, let's completely government or I don't know who treats Istria as if it's not part of Croatia. In fact, I think it's the other way around, that all the time Mr. Cain separates Istria from Croatia. I hope that's in good faith. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26586	We have a re-correction, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26587	It's a rough disqualification. You should have warned him not to impute me to isolate someone from Croatia. No, Mr. Markovanovic, it is not Croatia that treats Istria unfairly, but this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26588	Perhaps I should have warned Mr. Markovanovic, but also you because you did not specify the article you are obliged to do when you again report and abuse the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure for the second time. So with my tolerance maximum, if that happens again, then we will also have to apply the measures provided for in Articles 213 and 214 of this Rules of Procedure. Now let's move on. And reported on behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26589	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, here I am based on one, to say a little bill developed a lively debate on absurdities starting from Istria to Zagorje, and I'm going to talk a little later about those absurdities of ours because I think there are justifiable arguments. First of all, this law. He says an old saying, "Whoever confesses, half of them are forgiven." Here, the secretary of state said and announced a 40% reduction in motorcycle toll, and then according to our old folk proverb, they say, "Who admits 40% is forgiven."and not half. In any case, I think that the applicant well explained this, i.e. the addition of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Public Roads on the basis of Article 62, and in relation to the financing of public roads and how to determine compensation and tolls. But I thought I would put a written proposal to the government and the Croatian highways directly in connection with certain, as Mr Cain said, absurds that are visible or visible in relation to here and my end, our end, Slavonia and Baranja. Namely, you, Mr. Secretary of State, know that highway A3 Zagreb-Lipovac or what they call the Bajakovo border crossing without foundation, without foundation, was partly built in that former state, as the Turks say when they traveled from Germany, their other countries to Turkey, how beautiful this country is, how we left it, so they said we didn't know that instead of the harras, we only introduced a contribution, they would still be like here, did they? There, so that the Zagreb-Lipovac highway with certain only contributions then was built almost to, and other means clearly, to the Middles, something east of Slavonski Brod, and later so on. The Green Highway connected it to the Lipovac border crossing. They spoke at that time when the highway was built that there would come a time when the toll would pay off the value of the highway and after that would either be reduced, or perhaps completely abolished, or reduced by as much as necessary to reconstruct certain shares. Unfortunately, or still that road has not paid off or there are so many reconstruction needs that, here is the toll to Slavonski Brod 68 Kuna, to Zupanje 86 Kuna, so if they travel to Zagreb or to the sea they really pay a high price and I have a proposal, i.e. to ask for an indication of the thinking that for the easternmost part of Croatia, there is also a part of what Zupanja, Cvelferija, Vinkovci with regard to certain legal persons and, in part, natural persons are introduced, say the wines for Slovenia, that there are also wines for Slavonia that would ease or reduce the price of tolls towards those parts of Croatia in which agricultural producers and other entrepreneurs from that eastern part of Croatia, so Slavonia, Srijema, western Srijema, can easily reach the sea market, so on the Adriatic coast, because there is a really the price of transport to these markets, which is very largely expensive in the agricultural markets. Slavonski Brod is a town stretching 8km east-west, and from the highway to the Sava River has an air line a mile away. Zagreb is also a city that extends 20km in the east-west direction. So you see, in Zagreb you can enter the highway on Kosnica and go out without paying on Buzin. That's the way it is on other exits. In Slavonski Brod, if a man gets out a car on Slavonski Brod west, 7.8 kilometers away when entering the east must pay 5 kuna. We're asking the Secretary of State here, and I'm going to invest it in a written way, so as a suggestion, can I, since the terrible congestion of traffic in Slavonski Brod, which is certainly good, and you know because of the failure of a single underpass in Slavonski Brod that this highway can be used exclusively for the citizens of Brod without the charge of those 5 kunas. If the citizens of Krk, I say right, are freed from the payments of the bridge to come to the mainland, if the citizens of Zagreb are freed from paying tolls to pass through their city, it is not clear to me why the citizens of Slavonski Brod cannot do the same to come from the west to the eastern part of the city, or vice versa to the western part of the city, which would clearly drive traffic in the town of Slavonski Brod which has this interesting shape, so length of 8km east-west and everything, about a mile from the highway to the Sava River. When highways were built in this free and independent Republic of Croatia, then we must note how someone here said absurde or injustice, which was spoken of by Mr. from HNS in connection with Zagorje or Mr. Cain in connection with Istria, that Slavonia and Baranja, and there is an irregularity, that the number of kilometers of highways in that part of Croatia is much smaller than when we look at the rest of Croatia, and clearly in terms of the number of inhabitants, the size of the area and the importance of traffic and traffic routes, east-west and north-South. Here we know that two, three years ago, so always before the elections is open part of the 5C corridor, mid-Djakovo, in the length of 23 kilometers. This part, the stage, began nowhere and ended nowhere, and here it is reported that the rest of the roadway of the 5 C Djakovo-Osjek will be opened before the elections, and we will see this part towards the Hungarian border. I know there are certain plans, probably long-term on that. This proposal to reduce motorcycle toll by 50% turns out to be some sort of bargaining. There's really no need for us to be strangers here. There are objective indicators, objective arguments, there are four wheels and two wheels, and I think that this is how, really, here's what I'm not going to do just as you want, but I want a little different. Therefore, there will be an obvious speech in this House whether or not we will accept this proposal by the motion of the Secretary of State or the Ministry for the price of toll motorcycles by 40% earlier. Personally, I think both proposals are good but I don't see the logic or the suffrage that we're bargaining here for 5, 10% as if we don't know who. I remind you once again, Mr. Secretary of State, that given the economy that is in relation to Istria by all indicators of financial unemployment in Slavonia compared to Istria, which dates back to 30% in all 5 or 4 Slavonian counties, consider precisely in the context of the fostering of this polluted economy in Slavonia and especially in the agricultural food industry, that for these regions, for these parts of eastern Srijem, Eastern Slavonia, a vignette would be introduced which would clearly be reduced by saying the drastic prices of transport of goods from that part of Croatia towards the markets of Zagreb and the Adriatic coast. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26590	Thank you. A few corrections. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26591	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. He says, dear colleague Boro, that we need to introduce vinjets for a part of Slavonia. I think it is an incorrect quote, given the need to introduce vinjets for all of Croatia and at least at the price of these Slovenes. And then Croatian citizens won't object absolutely. At these prices, you could drive far better, cheaper than you're doing today, because today, it's a complete hack. Because from Đakova to Zagreb pay the toll as you pay one tank of fuel. But I am not surprised that lately the number of employees in the Croatian highways has grown enormously. In particular, there are stories that certain Euros were given for these jobs, but certain membership cards had to be owned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26592	Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26593	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to correct the incorrect quote of a colleague who said, says Slavonia was cut off on the highway. Well, I really wouldn't agree with that if we knew that we didn't know I wasn't going to talk about the A3 direction, but I would talk about what was freshly done, which is in our memory. And I don't know it for 23, 25 kilometers of Slavonics. Opening the road to Osijek. So, building a road to the White Manastir. I really don't see any reason why here in this Croatian Assembly is even talking about how someone's been cut off. Not to mention investing in a state road where only in Osijek-Baranja County over 300 million kuna is invested in state roads. So let's not deceive the public, ask those people who built the road, look for information in the right place, and you'll get it. Because it is aware of what has been invested in Croatian highways, especially corridor 5C, it is indeed for every praise and whatever party we come from. Let us look into each other's eyes and be satisfied with the possibilities of building Croatian highways in Croatia, would we certainly want more? But the question is, where does the means go to secure it all? That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26594	Thank you very much. The second amendment. Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26595	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Namely, I would also correct the incorrect assumption that the body density and quantity, the length of these highways in Slavonia, is much, much smaller than in other parts of Croatia, which is absolutely not true. So, by completing Slavonics here probably in April this year, we get both the horizontal and vertical connection of the highway in Slavonia, so which should then, along with all these state highways, provide both the traffic and economic development of this part of Slavonia. So we'll have good coverage, and we think it's good assumptions for development. And this, when it ends in Osijek, is already going in a public tender and a large bridge over Drava and means that highway continues towards Baranja, that is, towards Hungary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26596	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26597	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. With this bill of law short and clear and why it is necessary to do this by law we are looking for exactly something that is so understandable especially in this time of crisis, the cost of having smaller vehicles with less consumption, in the first row are motorcycles, then the second smaller light vehicles. In any case, vehicles with less fuel consumption will be very attractive. This is what we see happening in Western Europe and here is a force of opportunity or better to say the trouble we are witnessing that this is already happening in Croatia. In fact, on our roads, on our highways, unfortunately this is not the case, but on the roads there is a growing number of motorcyclists on the road. But unfortunately, every year, more and more motorcycles died. As a rule, police reports, the MUP's official reports are that the motorcyclists themselves are guilty of driving on the wrong foot, of not having a helmet, of being irregularly overrun, of driving around vehicles. But it's not always like that, and it's not exactly like that. The main causes of the growing loss of motorcyclists and inability and ultimately the rejection of a growing number of citizens are precisely to use such a means of transport in order to pay too much toll. And so, this proposal for a Law on Public Roads is required to regulate this issue once and for all, not from case to case, not decision to decision, as appropriate, depending on what kind of threat to the government's reputation lurks. In fact, we remember 15.8th, so in the middle of the big heat last year, in protest of motorists both in Istria, Dalmatia and Zagreb and Slavonia, we only armed with our engines, our leather jackets and the inexhaustible heat of small money. They protested that the government had disobeyed their demands by completely ignoring them on the basis of their request that they had made at that time when they protested in the sixth month. So, it's been two, three months since the government found no match for that group of people to turn to at all. But when they saw their determination, the protest, so that civil courage which otherwise the government was panicking, so she's afraid of civic courage, then the faster something was done, however clumsy and insufficiently and in any case until the danger went away. But the motorists and that's what the government has well assessed, and it's really infallible when it realizes there's no leverage and it's only going to have to give in when it comes to hard nuts and that's what the motorists have shown. Motorists showed this in Croatia and in many other places in Europe when it was necessary to fight for other rights and as a sacred example that not only grumbles in cafes, in innkeepers, in family parties, but also in this way. Because they promised the government if they didn't meet their demands they'd be back in September with even more coins. Is that what the government's doing? So, when she saw that the devil had made a joke, then she orders Croatian highways to make a better decision which she decides to give consent to. So, such maneuvers are not worthy of one bold, responsible authority but otherwise our government always says that someone else is guilty, she is not guilty of anything and we know by law who are irresponsible persons, so only children and people with mental disorders. So it's high time for the government to take responsibility for the rule of law, but this government doesn't like to rule the laws, we'll often see it from the findings of the State Audit, or submit to the laws. Laws are for other people, laws are for ordinary citizens, laws are for opposition but not for them. So the government needs to learn to rule laws. If they're incomplete, if they're run over by time to propose their changes. It's obviously our government doesn't like it, but that's what needs to be taught gradually. Maybe this is a little example. Here's why this bill of law is two articles if we exclude and ignore this other one of the stereotypes when the law comes into force. So, according to its contents, there is an article. An excellent example of how the government should on this small example, so it would be a really small step for the government and great for citizens to learn to rule the laws, to abandon these non-transparent decisions that are often made on a shortcut and when it is only forced. And we learn of many decisions only after many, many years because they hide from the public. Here, let me go back to the content itself. It would be good indeed because it is in the interest of the security of all of us that the Government accepts this bill because the content, what is proposed by this content, therefore, requires that such content is precisely a change of law and no decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26598	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26599	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd only like to correct the inaccuracies of colleague Anticevic who said so. He says, "After the public pressure, the motorist then the government was obvious.". That is not true because Croatia's highways sent a proposal to the government as early as 10 months ago to change the price of motorists driving on the highway. The government also made a 40 per cent reduction in price at the 11th month, also a 20% reduction in price for the 4th category of trucks that have the truth in card payments or in advance. Therefore, your law and the law that you are proposing is too late because the government has already decided on the benefits of those who use them in terms of prices related to highways in last 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26600	Replica Mr. Representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26601	My colleague Antičević, well, the fact is and it is true that motorcyclists, motorists and associations have written to this government for several years, to the ministry, I personally have these memos and reasoned on the dates they sent to this government. And after they failed to get some support from the government they also addressed us and we also launched this initiative in the Parliament on 19 November, as the Ministry itself noted in the opening statement, we submitted this proposal to the procedure for amending and supplementing the law, on 27 November, after our initiative, the government is moving, i.e. the ministry is making, that is, the HAC decision from a 40% reduction. We still feel that it is too small and that we continue to maintain 50% of what associations are looking for. And he also had knowledge from the associations that they would not give up various strikes next year unless it was a 50% reduction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26602	Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26603	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Listening to this debate on the toll problem for motorcyclists and especially after Mrs Antičević-Marinović described how this was actually happening, I do not think of anything else than to compare the government's policy towards motorcyclists in this problem with animal policy towards people in... a farm that could come down in one sentence to the sentence "four wheels of good, two wheels of bad." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I did not report for this, I would like, as well as my colleagues from many other parts of Croatia, so Mr Vincelj when he spoke about the Zagorje highway and Mr Cain about the Istrian y, I would also like to point out an absurd which happens when of course traffic from the island to the mainland because it is obvious that in all other situations the sea is treated as a road only is not treated in this where it should be treated and that is when connecting. So the toll is paid in three cases. First, it's paid by car registration. It is about the same for all, depending on what kind of car is registered, however, the toll is paid for the damage to the road that happens naturally on driving and does not depend on how many miles anyone travels. And that's exactly one absurd, namely on the island, and that you will, five times around the island you can't damage as many roads as you damage on land in, say, a month. So that's the first time it's clearly believed that when we go to the mainland that the sea team is also driving along the road. And to get to the mainland, of course, a ticket is paid for a car on a ferry that costs about as much as Slovenian wine, perhaps for some islands and a little more. Now Slovenian vignette has become an international problem, and we have no ambition to make this an international problem, so we just want those prices to go down especially for those who don't have an island discount. The price of the toll is then also paid in the purchase of gasoline, or fuel at the gas station. So let's say you get paid when you buy gas or diesel for a boat's engine. So again, the sea is treated like a road and again, of course, because of the ride of the sea, pays tolls as if the road was damaged. Of course, the sea doesn't really get damaged when it's floating around. And then the third thing, the toll is paid when driving the highways, of course when we're driving on land we pay like everyone else. However, when the state already treats the sea as a road and in these two cases it charges what goes into the state budget and those who should not pay for it. I think it is correct, therefore, that the price of the ticket on the ferry lines is also determined in a way that is therefore taken as a toll price on highways at a certain distance depending on how much the ferry line drives miles. Magnified, of course, by those expenses that would have had a car that would pass that, in alleged road signs, and he as well as he's known he's standing on board so that those costs are gone. Therefore, in that case, the Supetar map would not be 126 kuna, but somewhere between 30 and 40 kuna, both for those who have an island discount and for those who do not. Of course, this would have very good consequences for the cost of transporting products from land to the island. There would be no more, therefore, a difference of 20% or 30% in prices in shops, therefore, on an island or on land, it is of course known that tourist resorts on islands are the most expensive in Croatia if we exclude the city of Dubrovnik in the summer at the prices of food and other products. Of course, that road of the sea does not need to be repaired, nor can so many of those with IDs be employed so much because there is nothing to fix. Therefore, this would not require an excessively large problem for the state budget and would have a significant impact on their standard of living for the islanders. Of course, since it would be a slightly larger coup against the state budget if it were to be applied throughout the year, the solution that this would naturally be applied maybe 10 months a year, and 7 and 8 months should not be, because 50 to 60% of total traffic on these lines is happening at 7 and 8 months anyway. Here, of course, although it is the law, so there is only one article, we are already discussing it for almost 2 hours, because of course the question of roads, roads, roads, roads and tolls that we represent the pain of injustice, and in the same way as a little more public talk about these things in Istria and Zagorje, I think that in the same way as in Norway, we would treat islands and that the price of car tickets on ferry lines would be reduced to that appropriate level. Because any return ticket for a car costs more than this half-year-old Slovenian vignette. Well, since we're looking at neighbors in the yard, we should work something out in our backyard.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26604	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26605	Dear colleague, Mr. Vice President, it would be good to see how much toll is collected, i.e. to collect toll from registrations, but also tolls on Croatian highways, bridges, tunnels, annually, because this is one very interesting data and from this information it would be visible how many roads should be recovered, how many new highways could be made, new fast roads not only on islands but also in Slavonia. And those who talked about how many kilometers of highways, the road for motor vehicles built in Slavonia may be just one message to try to drive the road from Nashic to Djakova, I believe they will have to go to the first service very soon because they will have to change the shock absorbers, as well as the tires as it is a hole in the hole. Not to mention the sub-level magistrate who is still inadequate for that amount of traffic, that I'm not talking to her, that there are no colleagues Mršić, that fast road that will start next Easter or in 5, 6 Easters, etc., etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26606	The answer to the replica, Mr. Representative... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26607	I thank my colleague Vinkovic. So when we talk about the roads that are made on the islands, we can count them a lot, but in any case we can count two that cry out for restoration. One is done, therefore, in parts of the road from Borozina to Mali Losinj and in some parts it is finished and in some parts it is not. But another road, so from Jelsa to Sucurje on the island of Hvar, is in such a state that not that one driving a car should pay the state for road damage but the state should pay the one driving for car damage. Except for the condition of the stake and the width is also kind of problematic, so it's actually becoming a rather interesting adventure. It will become even bigger when traffic increases on that road, when the tunnel to Drvenik is completed, and when de facto traffic towards the island of Hvar and the town of Hvar takes place on that side. The second thing you said, of course, is that every responsible government should make the same conditions for all citizens, regardless of where they are, in which part of Croatia lives and what they get into the state budget should be distributed more justly. In the same way as we want to make fairer distribution and toll revenues, that those who do less damage to the road, which are motorcyclists, pay less, so would this difference in the price paid by the citizens of Zagorje and those driving along the highway to Macelj, which are driven by the Istrian Ipsilon or the Učka tunnel and the Mirna Bridge and other roads that are illogically expensive to redistribute in some other way, so if that means some are paying the kuna or two more, if it's just I don't think it's going to be a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26608	Thank you. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26609	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Although the law that we have proposed today, the addition of public roads law, is quite short, two basic things can be read from it. First, the toll reduction that we have provided for this law for bikers and bikers is in principle more just. I think all of us on highways can see that there are very few motorists on the highways, that they don't usually use them, use roads that aren't paid, which are much more insecure and that ultimately because the highways use motor vehicles are less empty. No matter how empty these roads are when you go from Zagreb to Split, they are much more insecure because of their perseverance and poor maintenance. What makes this security very important? I'd say it's enough to read one piece of information. So, in 2007, I couldn't find data for 2008, of the 495 killed on the road 116 was a motorist. So, by the very fact that we had this law, that we introduced tolls for motorists who were half cheaper that even one of these 116 died because he didn't use highways, I think the law would be justified. I think that, here's the government's argument that they've given consent to highways to introduce new tariffs, we think that if these things can be determined by law, it would be fairer to set them up. As far as the other side is concerned, the safety of 120 almost motorists who die annually on Croatian roads, if one life is saved, is of course the most important thing that stems from this law, but the other is that they would increase probably highway revenues. We have Croatian highways as one company that handles huge revenues. This is around this year planned 3 billion kunas of which are approximately 1.3 billion kuna without VAT income from tolls. If we were to, and we're witnessing that it's nowhere near balanced throughout the year, it's not done to maximise income. If it were likely and would lead to safe traffic of highways or motorcyclists would use more highways and especially during this period of the year when there is not much traffic, highways would generate additional and significant revenue. What I think and why I am extremely unhappy with the work of the Croatian highways is that, since there is a lot of money available, much is made available from tolls annually, more and more every year, more and more, the result of the increase of tourists coming to Croatia, more irrationally, by introducing some new services. I think highways should take a further step to make a special tariff outside the season because now highways are mostly not used. When you drive from Zagreb to Split you can see that there is no traffic, that highways do not maintain or that income cannot even cover that technical maintenance of highways. And on the other hand, in highways today, we have a huge increase in employee costs from year to year. A lot of people got a job, not to mention party connections again. Very often, people on this key are employed in highways. And when we see that in cost, so in the business plans of highways we have as many as 40% of the planned income as maintenance, I think that there should be room for rationality in business, and on the other hand, that rationality in business would certainly contribute to the fact that the tolls are also lower. Someone mentioned they were really high tolls. I believe they are, especially for Croatian citizens who simply don't have the money to raise 150 kuna to Split toll. There could be room for some savings for Croatian citizens. And in terms of that, maybe crossing over why the Slovenians moved on to vinjets. They've moved on because it goes first and foremost in favour of their citizens. Those who come in tourism, pass through Slovenia, they will pay the price, and their citizens can drive for a smaller amount over the year. So, I believe that both the Croatian highways or the Government as the owner and the one that delivers toll approvals would have to introduce one such form so that Croatian citizens could travel cheaper and use those highways for which we, all of us, said counterpart Bauk, can also separate when registering and when paying for fuel. It means that in the end, there is a right to injustice, that Croatian citizens throughout the year can enjoy what Croatia has done in the last 7.8 years. But when we stop by specifically this law, here's what I said at the beginning, 120 about motorcyclists, motorcycles die on Croatian roads every year, die. If one is going to be less thanks to this law, I think it should be passed, and above all because it is just at the end of the day and less is spent highways when motorcycles are used and less crowded. After all, if you want motorcycles to spend less fuel and subsidize highways through the price of fuel. So there's some logic that's analogous to that from the use of motorcycles so I think we just have to adopt this law. And whether the government has given consent or not, in the end I see in the argument that it is 40 percent, we have suggested 50 percent which is still something more and we think it is appropriate to what should be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26610	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26611	Comrade Maras, I'd like to call here for an understanding of the government's position. Because when the Government of the Republic of Croatia rejects the proposal to reduce the toll, even if it has been more symbolic, because it does not have significant financial resources to take into account one fact, and the fact is that Croatian highways from one European respectable firm in these five, six years have become a firm with serious problems. Because the problem is no longer just to be in charge of continuing to build further kilometers of highways, for example towards Dubrovnik, or it should be said openly that from that announced highway Vrbovec-Koprivnica will be nothing, because money simply does not exist. Croatian highways today faced a payout problem, which is almost incredible. The reason we talked about not once here, and the government only shook hands was the irrational and incomprehensible employment by party, cousin and who knows what criteria and this is now the HATZ and therefore the simple and reasonable proposals on the reduction of tolls are being rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26612	Replication response, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26613	Thank you very much, Mr. Pancic, you've noticed that very well. If we're talking about incomes that are the main highways, that means the toll of a billion and 300 million kunas 420 million kunas in the plan goes to pay. I'm asking you, which job, of course, there you have to have maintenance, there you have to have material etc. Which job can bear such a burden on income and pay expenditure, of course, if it is not only a service in the game. There's a lot to invest in maintenance here because it's the nature of business. And normally when you make such a great burden it's very difficult to meet these obligations you're talking about, which is that the problems are already about paying those salaries. On the other hand, 40% of what the government has given approval to highways does not apply to those highways that are in concessions. Who knows, maybe tomorrow, tomorrow we'll have to issue another road in a concession. So we believe that the law must define something, not a government regulation. I'm sorry, not by regulation, but by the government's decision. Because tomorrow may be and we already have a concession to Macel's highway which is a private owner. Who can order them to cut the price by 50%. No one can order them. But if we define it in the law then that's understood. So, it's not enough that the government, of course, is possible and premonition of this SDP proposal, has seen this illogicality and agreed to a decision on highways. But private concessionaries don't have to do it, which is why it has to be in the law. And then maybe highways will also think about other ways that they could increase their revenues, so they won't need to make suggestions like this where they could get bigger themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26614	Secretary of State Drazen Breglec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26615	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll try in a short order, I won't be able to answer all the arguments I've been offered, maybe until the end. The question was asked, Mr. Lucin asked this why 40 not 50 explained it by the number of wheels 4 and 2 respectively. But I will remind you that we accept this natural explanation in the style of reaction of a respected parliamentary representative, but certainly, if in that spirit we can continue to say that A1 A category is not only for motorcycles with two wheels but also for tricycles and four-wheels, which, therefore, vehicles that have characteristics, which have four wheels have the characteristics of motorcycles. Of course they're joking aside. Any proposal other than 50 would probably be the same reaction. I think it's important that a significant downturn happened and that this time the SDP promoter, and also the government, or highways before, were on the same track and actually achieved the same result and I believe that the motorcyclists of all colors will welcome this kind of solution. As for the remarks made by many parliamentary representatives. Namely, I have to bring it out here for the sake of the Croatian public who is looking at this, that it is very easy to discuss the need for a reduction in highways. It is very easy to discuss part-time the need for a reduction in the part that is collected through the price of a liter of gasoline and spends on building highways. It is very easy to discuss the need to take smaller loans, because we are over-indebted. However, it is difficult not to take all of this into account at the moment when you have to close the budget in this case from Croatian roads or highways, and especially at the moment when the avalanche of proposals for new stocks, impatience in deadlines, everything needs to be done immediately, urgently, quality, and all of this should be done at a lower price that is constantly proposed. It should be done without a supplement in the price of gasoline, it should be done without borrowing. I must say because of the Croatian public, although I am convinced that Croatian citizens recognize such discussions as unfounded, as unargumented and that they are intrinsically recognized as not using harder words. But with this debate, I want to encourage precisely the reasoned criticism, the proposals that are sustainable, and not the ones that are in one way that I just said earlier, don't actually care about the whole and totality of this complex problem. Where the investor, in particular the state does not have at a specific time any capacity for debt, any intention to build up its own funds from any part of the budget and the need to build infrastructure. Of course, the solution is the concession. When such a concession is awarded, of course, it has its own price. It's defined and the rules are defined by the contract. In the specific case of the roads Zagreb – Macelj, we know in which period the contract was made, who signed it. The contract should be respected, things are defined. We later propose that the law should determine that the part also reduces the toll. This would indeed be a wonderful echo at this final, final moment of accession to the European Union, as one country that claims to respect its own legal order and European legal order dictates the obligations provided for, signed, defined by international contracts. Indeed, an extraordinary suggestion. As for Mr. Cain and Mr. Vincelj's remarks, so there was a convenient rhetoric about the similarity of Zagorac and Istria, I, as an uninterested person from Međimurje, can say that there is a very interesting similarity here. Both have forgotten the Croatian public's enthusiasm to say that highways are expensive to say that there are very large discounts on those parts for the local population. Mr. Vincelj, I said that before, and the representative reacted... He said, he forgot to say there's a 50% discount for the locals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Cain also forgot to say that for pulse and Rijeka registration there is a 50% discount when it comes to paying Ucka's tunnel. Then, also for the same infrastructure in Istria for local people from Lupoglav, Cerovlje, Picana, the towns of Buzet and Labin, with subscription, it is possible to get 63% discount on the regular price paid by tourists and the rest of us who are not locals. So, again, I had to take this out so that those who listened and the previous discussions would get one reasoned, one realistic real picture, and not that, on the basis of the flat-rate and partially accurate arguments, they could conclude that the government is not taking care of local and sometimes justified, in this case justified specific situations. Finally, as for the government's response to pressure, Ms. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, if the government reacted under pressure by decision of 27 November, then it can also be said that the SDP also acted under pressure with its proposal, which came after the protest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26616	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, it is not up to you to assess the debate of parliamentary representatives and debates in the Croatian Parliament. This is not up to you, and you are trying to stay away from it in the future and it is not up to you to comment on statements and statements and statements of all MPs and ultimately assess the debate and give your view to the Croatian public as the result of this debate. The result of this step forward is a whole series of corrections of incorrect allegations. We're going in a row, but please, colleagues, don't correct your opinions now, correct your proposals and your grades. Mr. Sime Luchin's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26617	I'm only going to correct one incorrect quote, because given the inspired presentation of the secretary of state where he gave us all a lesson, it would take me three days. Therefore, it is incorrect that the same reaction would have been if the government had made any percentage of the cost of the toll. We did not suck our proposal out of our fingers, but simply stick to what the citizens of the voters came to us to pray with concrete suggestions and explanations why 50%. That's the same proposal you received in the government, and it's true that at the 11th month of last year you passed it, and our law went into procedure earlier, according to who gave what and when, I don't think it matters. And I didn't get an answer why 40%.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26618	Comrade Lucin, just before we said, you didn't get the answer right now, you're the one who made the proposal. Well, don't, let's stick to correcting the false assumption. You can't, you can't, I didn't give you my word, please sit down. Second Amendment, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. You can't when I'm obviously warning you about something, and you're obviously making some other claims that aren't correcting an incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26619	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, if I step out of the Rules of Procedure, please interrupt me immediately. Therefore, it is incorrect to say that Mr. Secretary of State that the reaction would be the same if they had proposed any other amount. It is true that here the SDP clearly proposes, but the government has no ideas and does not suggest as is the case with these anti-recession laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26620	Here, this is an example, a school example of correcting an incorrect quote, regardless of whether the quote is correct or incorrect. ... Now I've signed up, it seems that the correction of the incorrect allegations is not Milan Bandic, but who is it? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Davor Bernardic. [[Intruder: Bernardić, Davor Bernardić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26621	Mr. Vice President, I'd like to correct one of the incorrect allegations that the Secretary of State has said that citizens recognize unfounded debates. That's incorrect. I'd say that citizens recognize reasonable debates, but if the debate on saving at least one human life is an unfounded proposal of this law, then we're definitely not on the same track, and we'll probably never be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26622	Next correction, Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26623	I'm going to try to run this nerdic accuracy. So I'm correcting the state secretary's false claim when he said it was unfounded debates that don't take care of the whole of this complex problem. On my part, the whole of this complex problem is based on the following, that in these 5 years, the price of a kilometer of highway from 4m euros jumped to 8m euros and therefore the government, along with Croatian highways, is in big trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26624	And the next correction, Mr. Representative Mario Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26625	So I will correct the same quote as my colleague Bernardic, I will give a second explanation. So, Croatian citizens recognize this kind of debate unfounded, the secretary of state said. That's not true. I'll tell you why. In 2008, there were 50,000 registered motorcycles. I think it's a beautiful figure of the citizens of this country that I think such debates are very important, not that they're unfounded.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26626	Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26627	So I would correct the inaccuracies of the secretary of state when he spoke of the Zagreb-Macelj concession to derogate the international contract with this law. So this is not true because it is not a classic concession contract because in that contract the Croatian State makes up for all the lost profits of the concessionaire, therefore, if we apply this law to that share, which was logical that the same rules apply on all highways in Croatia, then we would not derivate an international contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26628	And Mr. Representative Zeljko Vincelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26629	I'm correcting two incorrect allegations from the secretary of state. The first is that the law would derugate an international contract related to the Zagreb-Macelj highway, i.e. translated by a lay dictionary, that the contract with the concessionary determines the level of the toll. That's not true. It is true that the contract with the concessionaire states that unless the toll revenue is sufficient, the difference should be compensated by the Croatian state. The problem is that, in this case, in Zagorje, it is not the Croatian state that makes up for it, but it is all the burden that falls on the back of citizens. Another false assumption is that we have a big discount. The government says it's working on a 56% discount. That's not true. It is true that the price of the toll on the move from Zabok to Krapina where it is said that this discount is to be used average tolls as in other parts of Croatia, should be 6 kuna, and here is 5 kuna. There can't be a 56% discount.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26630	Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26631	Well, it comes from everything, and this may not be according to the Rules of Procedure, that we Zagorci can enter the European Union directly, because obviously that we are not the Croatian State and that we are not subject to some laws and rules. Mr. Secretary of State knows well, but I understand his performances. Discounts worth from Zabok to Krapina, St. Cross. But from Zapresic to Zabok, the Zabok node in Mokrica, Oroslavlje has no discount, and since we rarely need to go to Krapina than to Zagreb, then I think we are damaged.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26632	And this was a Zagorje-Međimurje battle. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26633	They were always with the Croats. I would like to begin by commending you, Mr. Vice President, for really protecting the representatives and the Croatian Parliament. I understand why the secretary of state said so, although it was said that the secretary of state would be professionals, it would not only represent the interest of one political option. Not to correct the entire allegations and the entire tirad that the secretary of the state sent to the Croatian Parliament, which you warned him of. I only invite him to come to the D46 Djakovo-Vinkovci state road, so he'll see what kind of road it is, what kind of condition it is, and it's in the middle of town. State Road, that's like when Hitler built his highways in the '30s, after '33. in Germany. So I invite you to come take a ride in the car.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26634	Well, now under the correction of an incorrect quote is an invitation to visit the road. ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26635	Thank you very much. Here I would like to correct the inaccuracies of Mr. Secretary of State who said that what we heard in the Parliament is completely unfounded, that Croatian citizens recognize it. Because we don't understand this complex problem. I'd say that's incorrect. We fully understand this complex problem and that this proposal has not come over our fingertips. I'm speaking from the data that compares this proposal for Slovenia. As you know in Slovenia when vinjets are introduced, the vinjet for private vehicles is 35 euros and for motorcycles 17,5 euro and 50% less. So the proposal is consistent with what is, what we call European practice. So, Mr. Secretary of State, we understand very well this complex problem, but what you don't understand is that you should go out to meet Croatian citizens, not react to someone's incentive and make such decisions and give permission to Croatian highways to cut 40% of the price for motorcycles.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26636	On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Boris Šprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26637	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So this bill of law that the Representatives' Club filed in the procedure of 20 November last year speaks of one thing, but it's not quite as simple as that, Mr. Breglec, when you said it was a toll reduction for motorcyclists. Now I'm going to read you a standard that's very short. Probably some of you don't have laws anymore. It reads as follows: "In determining." That's the law, the bill. "In determining the level of toll, care will be taken to encourage the use of means of transport with less fuel consumption." This nobody mentioned here, "these means of transport leading to less traffic consumption (engines and smaller and light vehicles, vehicles with less fuel consumption, etc.).).’. You see, we talk here all the time about how we insist that just 50% be less toll for motorcyclists. That we're in the explanation, please, of the bill, said that we think it should be 50% smaller. And we explained that. But this standard, which I call a working instructional mandatory norm, obliges the executive authority to take care of whenever and how it can, even when it comes to international contracts, Mr. Breglec. So, this crazy thing that I'm about to tell the authorship of Professor Josipovic and I have agreed to, is absolutely taking care of all of these elements that you've been talking about, which are as controversial as they are. There were no disputed elements, but it was a matter of will whether the government would consider and accept it with the signing of Parliament Presidents in the procedure of this legislative proposal at all. And what do you think would happen if she accepted? I'll tell you. Then if the government had been a little wiser, we'd have said yes first, and we're looking for an emergency procedure, here's the first and second reading. Let's just accept that law. Under that law, the decision she made on 27 would be taken by law. 11th immediately seven days as this legal text entered the procedure. And my colleagues have already said, I'll only say one sentence. So, the government rushed just because it wasn't even in the idea of passing someone else's proposal, in this case the SDP club, not the Vladin. And now I'm going to make one claim. I've been here like you dear colleagues and colleagues for a year, some are more, much more, but I can say that my regret, my saying, formulates here my one condition which consists of being angry and bitter all this time that neither Mr. Lesar's proposals nor the HNS club's proposals, nor the SDP's proposals, nor any proposal, unless it's government and HDZ. So my anger and bitterness turned to regret. I least like it when someone feels sorry for me because then I'm in trouble. So, democracy in the sense that a legislative proposal that, no matter what it may be, is useful and good, as we see it, is actually useful because it encouraged the government's action at the end, it cannot go away because it is the government's opinion, it is the opinion of the ruling HDZ and it must not pass any proposals. I urge you gentlemen to consider your actions and to finally realize that you are not alone in this country and to accept those proposals that are good because of the legislative activity, legislative activity is such an activity that concerns all citizens and not just those who voted in favour of the ruling majority. And as far as I'm concerned, I'll say it specifically. Just when you said it, Mr. Lucic, I'll say it specifically. So, as far as this procedure is concerned, when the opposition proposal is here, let's say, the Law on the Prevention of Labour Abuse was recently in the assembly, then it was an accusation that we had submitted an premature legislative proposal because it was still to be considered, it was necessary to see everything, etc. Almost the whole of the European Union and all the countries in it have that law. We'll wait. It's too early. And now you've just told Mr. Lucic that he's too late. It's not too late. He just got here at the right time and you only reacted this way I'm talking about. And that's your problem. And that's our common problem. So let me cut it short because it's been said a lot in this debate. We stay with our proposal because we believe that with a norm like this, with such a legal proposal, we will allow it to really be taken into account under the current circumstances. Each government takes care of how to meet not only those concerned with the reduction or regulation of the level of toll but also, for example, to reduce the toll to those whose vehicles will be driven to the gas we discussed but also to the electric drive, that I do not explain it now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26638	Thank you for closing the debate. This part of the debate that referred to all the opposition drafts of the law being rejected which was not strictly related to the subject is very interesting. I remember when all the opposition proposals from 2000 to 2003 were adopted. So I think there, from 2000 to 2003, I remember that all the opposition proposals were passed by legal proposals, none of them were rejected the same as now all the opposition proposals. ... It's just hard to remember which one. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Second. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Roads, first reading. Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. I am voting in line with the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Legislative Committee, which reads: The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Roads is not accepted." Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 74 votes in favour, 34 against accepting this proposal's conclusion. The SDP representative club proposes to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to deliver the report to the Croatian Parliament within 30 days on the implementation of the National Road Safety Programme of the Republic of Croatia." During the debate, the government's representative did not accept this proposal as a conclusion. I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion that it was proposed by the SDP Representatives Club. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. To conclusion 35, v. 73. We find that the proposal for a conclusion has not received the required number of votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26641	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. This is another in a series of contracts to avoid double taxation delivered to the Croatian Assembly for adoption, meaning the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the State of Qatar. In the event of the conclusion of this Treaty, the Contracting Party shall apply the model for the organisation of economic cooperation and development and the adoption of this Treaty shall enter into force from 1.1.2010.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26642	Thank you. The committees? I'm opening a debate. Mr. Representative Goran Maric's Club of HDZ Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26643	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. It is known that the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to respect and apply all the international contracts it has concluded or has joined the former SFRY if they are not contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and to the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. In this context, the Republic of Croatia, with a number of countries, agreed to continue to apply all double taxation contracts concluded with the former SFRY, such as Finland, Italy, Denmark, Sweden, and so on. During the past period, the Republic of Croatia has concluded 41 contracts to avoid double taxation and negotiations with other countries are ongoing. The result of efforts to improve economic relations with both the state of Morocco and Qatar has also been approached by this signing of a contract with the State of Qatar that allows our employers, construction and similar companies not to pay profit tax in the State of Qatar if the work takes up to five months. At the same time, Croatian airlines and maritime companies carrying out the transport of goods or passengers between the Republic of Croatia and the State of Qatar are allowed not to pay taxes on profits obtained except in the Republic of Croatia. In addition, the final provisions of this Treaty stipulate that Croatian societies in the state of Qatar will have exactly the same status and convenience as those of the state. It is important to note that the implementation of these and all such laws does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget. The HDZ Club supports this bill. And finally one law without a fight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26644	Club of representatives of the CNS Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26645	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will support this bill. However, we will repeat by who knows which time our basic objection to this and similar proposals of the law. My colleagues and colleagues, we heard almost nothing from the government's representatives, we heard from our HDZ colleagues, and they simply convinced what we have on the page and half of the opening argument. But it would be nice if we weren't just handlifters here, because it's not enough just to say that this is a pattern... And that we're working on that same pattern here's the 40th agreement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It would be good to know what concrete goals we expect to realize. Look, Qatar is the country with the largest gross state product per capita on our little planet. Qatar is the country that has the lowest taxes besides Bahein. Qatar is a country that currently invests, which in the country, which abroad is about $1,300 billion. It would be nice to know how many of these investments will come to Croatia, how much of our builders, scientists and other experts participate in the implementation of these projects in Qatar. And nothing, we just never know what's behind these contracts. Therefore, I ask that two, three pages of the text be prepared to see which countries are concerned, which I expect Croatia has in relation to these countries, which will facilitate, change, improve this law. These are some minimum data that a parliamentary representative should be dealing with so that we can see if we have done enough so far, or if we will now have a significant different basis for such development. As a scientist, I can only say that in Qatar a recently formed scientific and technological park in which is invested very much money, it is a model system where probably many scientists from Croatia could learn a lot, cooperate with them, whether someone encourages the cooperation of Ruđer Boskovic and the Qatar Science and Technology Park. Then, so-called. Education city, therefore, educational city with countless colleges, with selected lecturers from all over the world who educate clearly their young people. There's a mention of a financial centre with these big investments. My colleagues and colleagues, I really do, please don't take this and you government gentlemen as a criticism, but I don't think we should be just raising our hand here, but we need to assess the importance and potential of these laws based on a real economic situation, that is, the relationship between the two states. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26646	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. 3. The final proposal of the Law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the State of Qatar on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax avoidance. I am voting on the final proposal of this law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. Consistent with 108 votes to pass this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26649	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, distinguished parliamentary deputies and parliamentary representatives. This contract is also concluded in the same way as before, at least a proposal for a contract. I agree with the esteemed representative that the reasons why this contract should be written in an explanation should be so that this contract has been speeded up before, although it begins to be concluded in 2005 precisely because of our companies that went and worked in Qatar, that is what we will do in other proposals when it comes to giving reasons and the reasons for which we are going. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26650	Thank you. The committees? I'm opening a debate. The HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26651	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I understood that on behalf of the HNS Club as a scientist, I, as a scientist, also would only point out that I support such proposals but that this is not an economic cooperation agreement with certain countries, but a simple agreement on avoiding double taxation in this case now with the Kingdom of Morocco. There is even a little more favourable situation here because our construction and similar companies will not pay profits in the Kingdom of Morocco if the works last less than 7 months and not than 5 months as they did with the State of Qatar. It also ensures the equal status of all legal persons and Croatian companies in the Kingdom of Morocco as well as all their societies in their country. Therefore, the HDZ Club also supports this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26652	Thank you. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26653	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, the same objection, in addition to what my colleague told me in front of the HDZ club. Namely, this is not an economic co-operation agreement, I agree, but we would have to see what will benefit from this for the Croatian economy. When the British Prime Minister, when the American president and many others go into the world, you know what they do, they first invite all big companies to ask them what kind of attitudes to take when visiting a state. It's all about economics, economics, development, well-being, standards, its citizens, its companies and so on. I'd like us to start acting the same way with regard to our businessmen, our companies that's a minimum obligation. This could confirm our care for them, the benefit that they will have through this, etc. Morocco, for example. It's a big country, it's a country that has 33 million inhabitants. It's a huge market, a market, why, for almost all our products. Morocco realises its gross social product about one third of agriculture, one third industrial production, one third service activities. I would very much like to know how much our ministry, how much our agricultural companies have managed to get into that market, how much cooperation with them, how much our industry, our textile industry, first of all, because they have a strong, textile collaboration with exactly Morocco. Service activities and so on. Therefore, gentlemen, I repeat, this criticism is not of some evil intention, but of good intent to be even more efficient, better and more concrete. And I'm glad the Secretary of State accepted our objection in that regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26654	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Morocco on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of income tax avoidance. I am voting on this final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. Score. With 109 votes in favour and 1 abstention, the proposed law was passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26657	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. On 19 July 2007, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided to initiate a procedure for the conclusion of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Marco Polo II programme and the same memorandum was signed on 1 October 2008. Otherwise, "Marco Polo II" is a European Union programme to encourage and subsidise freight transport, primarily by sea, river and rail transport systems. The programme itself is aimed at subsidising i.e. the allocation of financial support, up to 30% of the costs of establishing and maintaining a particular transport service within a period of 3 years and intended for international consortiums of entrepreneurs to improve the environmental efficiency of the transport system as soon as possible, and the circular maritime, river and rail system. The entry of the Republic of Croatia into this programme opens up opportunities, so that through these consortiums and Croatian entrepreneurs and the inclusion in the intermodal transport systems of the European Union and the use of the European Commission's financial incentives. This reduces transport costs and increases the competitiveness of the Croatian transport route and of all transport participants, including road operators, road carriers, as well as users of maritime, river and rail transport services, as well as transport service providers. It should also be intended that the construction of infrastructure transport systems is only a basic prerequisite for the development of the Croatian transport route, while the inclusion in this programme "Marco Polo II" creates assumptions for the establishment of a better transport service, increasing the potential for further development of Croatian entrepreneurs providing services in the transport of cargo through the Republic of Croatia. The proposal for this law confirms, as I said earlier, the signed Memorandum between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community, but in this respect, the Republic of Croatia clearly needs to provide funding for this programme from 2009 to 2013, with a total of 988 thousand euros, but it is clear that these funds will be provided in large part, i.e. around 75% of that amount from pre-accession European funds, i.e. the PHARE Programme and the IPA. For example, in 2009 the total membership of the Republic of Croatia for participation in this programme amounted to a million and 354 thousand kuna, while around 151 thousand kuna was secured from IPA, so the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the state budget would amount to 233,000 and 130 kuna. Therefore, although it is a significant total of funds to be spent on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Marco Polo II programme, it will significantly increase the attractiveness of Croatian traffic routes by including clearly Croatian carriers and will open up the possibility of more intensive traffic development. First of all, in the maritime corridors between the Republic of Croatia and Italy, because it is already being considered to establish the Bakar-Chiogia maritime line, Rome-Orton, Ploce-Budapest, Zadar-Split with Ancon and other traffic routes and on the rail routes of the harbor, and in particular there are projects that will run for project Marco Polo II and on the corridor, on the 10th railway corridor. The total value that Croatian entrepreneurs can expect from this project per project under the programme is 2 to 4m euros per project. In order to make the Republic of Croatia more ready to enter this programme, the government has established and promotes the work of the Association for the Promotion of Inter-board, Maritime Connecting, etc. Short Sea Shiping Centre in Croatia, which, in accordance with the European Commission's guidelines, helps all potential participants in this programme to prepare for the competition. Otherwise, the first tender was launched a few days ago, in fact on 9 February, and we, after the adoption of this law and the confirmation of this memorandum and ratification of the memorandum itself, can also enable our entrepreneurs to participate in this first programme, the first competition that lasts three months after which certain funds will be provided for Croatian entrepreneurs, Croatian carriers that will report to the competition. We therefore propose that this memorandum be adopted clearly and in an urgent procedure because of the need to move forward as soon as possible to implement the programme itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26658	Thank you. The committees? Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, Committee Chairman, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26659	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. On 21 January 29th of this year, the Maritime, Transport and Liaison Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Marco Polo II programme. The Committee considered the bill as an interested working body. The opening statement was given by a representative of the applicant, who pointed out that the aim of the law is to confirm the Memorandum of Understanding and on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Marco Polo II programme, whose implementation is expected to establish the general principles, deadlines and conditions of participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Marco Polo programme itself, and for the granting of financial assistance to the community to improve the ecological efficiency of the sea freight transport system. He also stressed that the signing of the said memorandum was a necessary prerequisite for opening opportunities for applicants of project proposals from the Republic of Croatia in the programme in question, and through competitions to report projects called by the European Commission. The Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community is a legal basis that will enable the Republic of Croatia to participate in the Marco Polo programme itself, which provides for the use of pre-accession funding. The Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Marco Polo II programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26660	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget? The Legislative Committee? I'm opening a debate. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Vincelj. Here you go. He's gone. The club loses its word. SDP representative's club, Mr. Representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26661	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will, of course, support the proposal for a Memorandum Confirmation Act as fully as it is written. I have to say that the law is very simple, there are two articles so we don't have much to talk about about such a single law. However, I am glad that this law also confirmed the memorandum signed in October 2008. But let me here now is just an opportunity for me to say maybe two sentences about the memos, about the records, about the contracts that we take over in a way that we make a commitment in advance, and then something like that comes here in the form of the law in the Republic of Croatia's Parliament. It seems to me that it might be better the other way around if we knew what it was about when things happened. And there is an improbable question behind this formal way or this formal one that stands in the law which should be operational or content, as my colleague Doric said the bill on ratification something before that is behind it. Who will now do the content part so that we can run rightly as the secretary of state said in a contest that has already been opened and the candidacys have begun. Who's going to run for it, just the carriers as I figured out which one's going to get 30% of the transportation subsidies. But it seems to me that the content of this law and the essence of this law is slightly different, which is that it primarily improves the environmental efficiency of the freight transport system. It seems to me that, in this ecological efficiency, it should not only come to the formal subsidisation of transport, but it should then see how different we can behave in that transport here and ecologically. So I'd just like to say one example. Is through this, confirming this memo with this law whether we will in some way have control over whether cargo vehicles in Croatia are moving our roads and highways meeting all European exhaust standards, whether they are within these border limits or not. Here, let's just say that for me, there should be one thing about projects that maybe you should run for office. I am glad that apart from railways and seaways that we are in some way going to run for projects that, transports take place also by waterways in the Republic of Croatia. I think that part's been neglected, too. And more of what I'd like to mention. You told Mr. Secretary of State that it primarily refers to projects that will be run by carriers. Is there any strategy of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison where they might know that it will also be some infrastructure projects that will make it easier for carriers to transport through Croatia. Is that where he goes except for Bakar and... The possibility of transporting trucks by boat. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is that where the Raven River is going, as Ancona Split used to be, that already exists and that we can use it for infrastructure. Because it's obvious that in Bakr or somewhere else that I don't list where everything isn't done so that we can accept so many of those vehicles, or trucks that will land there. Here, it seems to me that in some way it remains unarranged by this law. Whoever has the right to apply for that contest, who will be, who. Whether through the Ministry or we're going to go to this as you said and who it is other than subsidising transport, whether there's infrastructure in there somewhere, and whether there's a possibility of getting money for the infrastructure and where there's an improvement in environmental efficiency. Namely, the truck except to go from Ravena let's assume to Rijeka he should travel to that part of Italy, so Slovenia, then land somewhere in Croatia and for Hungary. But they will come to Croatia by boat. They'll still be driving on our highways and environmentally likely polluting. Where that efficiency is recognised in this law would interest me. Otherwise, we will support this bill's proposal in the hope that we will get these few answers strategically in time and that the candidates that are now already highlighted will pass in the good part, that they will be well done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26662	Thank you. HDZ Club, Ms. Representative Marija Pejcinović Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26663	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. So Croatian participation in so-called Community programmes are part of a pre-accession strategy, one of the major components of the pre-accession strategy. Because this type of support is intended for cooperation between Member States, but also for candidates in, therefore, areas of common policies. In this case, it's about transportation, about transportation. When it comes to the Marco Polo programme, it is about cooperation in the area of transport with an emphasis, as already mentioned in the promotion of the use of more environmentally acceptable types of freight transport and projects that reroute freight from road to rail or inland waterway transport and short maritime lines. Why has the European Commission decided on such a programme? So-called The White Paper on Transport 2001 showed that road freight transport would grow 50% by 2010 if essential steps were not taken immediately so that the trend would not turn towards other modes of transport. Since road transport is fully dependent on fossil fuels, this also means that road transport is a major source of CO2 emissions and thus a factor in global warming. Since the Republic of Croatia was given the opportunity to participate in community programmes in the second half of the financial period from 2000 to 2006 it chose 8 programmes during that period. For the new period from 2007 to 2013, the government adopted a list of programmes for which the Republic of Croatia is interested, and Marko Polo is one of those who are back on the list of priorities. In fact, of the 16 projects selected in this programme, one was directly related to Croatia, and this is about transport, namely the transport of ingested gas from northern Italy to the countries of Eastern and Southeast Europe, with Zagreb being one of the hubs for the transport. As for the new Marco Polo II programme, it is financially more generous than its predecessor, while its geographical coverage is expanded. For this seven-year period, a total of 450m euros are available, and our financial contribution to membership in the programme will be co-financed as the secretary of state said with 85% in this case for the new Marco Polo programme from the IPA programme. The law confirming the memorandum for the inclusion of the Republic of Croatia in the Marco Polo II programme is a legal basis for Croatia's inclusion in this programme. Since we are on important land, water, South-Eastern Europe and the Adriatic corridors, and that we are in an area that connects parts of the European Union, but also the European Union with the countries of the region, it is important for us to participate actively in this programme. For all of this, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26664	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26665	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Since my colleague Vincelj wasn't here when you called him, I'd like to say that the HNS Club will absolutely support this bill, with a few suggestions, a suggestion to the Secretary of State for the Future. In fact, many of our citizens are opening up the Assembly's website, opening laws, reading the reasons for these laws, including the laws themselves. Same objection as before. In fact, if it hadn't been for what you said orally here, and now you've added your colleague, Pejcinovic, I'd very little know as a parliamentary representative. A colleague of Denon also confirmed it, and he doesn't know much about it as a parliamentary representative. Who, how, when, how much? We simply do not know how to answer the questions of our citizens who ask us these questions, so we would ask you, therefore, either as part of the reasoning of the law or as some additional supplementary material, we also get a review of what was in the framework of Marco Polo I and the difference of possibilities. People wonder who might be, I don't know, a potential applicant? When? What does he have to do? I myself wonder, since the funds are still limited in terms of terms, will you make a list of priorities in front of the government? What are the Croatian priorities? For what projects are we going to suggest that, clearly, they get the green light and so on? These are interesting things, these are things that clearly determine the future of transport in our country. I am from the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, of course we are very interested in maritime traffic, for rail traffic, and I, unfortunately, do not know how to give my citizens on the streets of Rijeka. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26666	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26667	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I have to say I'm half satisfied, half dissatisfied. I'm pleased that, here, in relatively objective time, we have this law on the constituency benches. I am dissatisfied and partly because of what my colleague Doric was saying, but also for a whole series of other reasons. First of all, we had Marco Polo I, Marco Polo I, we were late in signing, and then we signed, and then one year we forgot to put the funds into the state budget so we couldn't use it today we don't know if, as much and for what purposes, we used Marco Polo I's funds, did we return those funds, didn't we return and what experiences? So, I expected that, in addition to this law, it would be what we did with Marco Polo I and that we would get based on this law and one small action plan how to "Marco Polo II" which is much more extensive and much more generous because there is much more money to use. We have two problems here. One problem is small entrepreneurs in the transport system do not have the administrative capacity to report to European funds and to withdraw these funds. Problem two, we don't have the infrastructure to do that. Therefore, the project, the Marco Polo European programme, to simplify the story, consists of obtaining a subsidy to how much you reduce CO2 emissions per kilometer per tonne of transported goods. To do that, you have to have infrastructure, so it's not enough to buy a new truck. You won't get a subsidy from this program for that. But you'll get a subsidy, for example, if you get a truck on a train. We've made Spachva, I don't know until this moment at which stage of development or functioning is, for example, Spachva. Did Spačva do what we expected from her, so the trucks going from Bulgaria, Turkey, Serbia, I don't know where we land in Spačva on a train, we drive them to the other side to, I don't know Maribor, Graz to where and to reduce the amount of CO2 emissions in the area in the Republic of Croatia. We have not introduced vinjets, so I highly doubt that those who avoid highways and drive on local roads including the Podravska highway are moving on the train to be environmentally aware and not to pollute the environment in the Republic of Croatia. But maybe if we had encouraged our entrepreneurs to do this and we told them, okay, we'd help you, our agency, our services, our, I don't know administrative capacity will help you use Marco Polo's driving goods through Croatia with a roll, maybe they'd be more competitive so we could offer transportation services in Serbia, Bulgaria, Romania, Macedonia, I don't know Turkey, and not that we have a reverse situation, that at least because they can't be competitive because the situation in the markets there is much unregulated, they drive that goods and watch what they do then, trucks behind which are hard to drive because there's a slightly more productive black smoke cloud, they drive through Croatia, avoid highways because it's expensive to pay for their roads, rides local and county roads, they don't pay any fees and come to Slovenia, they have to pay their vignette. He can't go through Austria with that truck and move on to Maribor. Or he's moving on a roll somewhere right at the beginning of Austria. We have these days according to the newspaper is very much written about how the company that in the Croatian Railways should be engaged in exactly the intermodel transport system is futrating very some off-shore companies. I thought the opposite effect of this would be that we have an intermodal transport system in Croatia at least on Croatian railways. We did not, in fact, destroy us, but the Croatian railways destroyed the special wagon factory in Čakovec, instead of perhaps subsidising the production of these wagons, so that entrepreneurs could withdraw funds from Marco Polo I, we do not know how but from Marco Polo II we can certainly and have enough time. So, it is not enough that Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, undertakes to participate in this local part of the state budget as regards "Marca Paul II", because it is not worth anything to us unless we create assumptions that these funds are being used. We are talking about some funds that have come to Croatia as I do not know IPA or ISPA, PHARE, CARDS etc. but these are funds which are de facto not limited sizes, but which cannot be used decentralisedly, therefore through a system within Croatia, but go directly to Brussels. And it's really up to us alone how much I think from the public authorities and from private entrepreneurs, it depends on how much we're going to use it. Therefore, in addition to this law in the budget that follows that law, we can use those funds that we must pool with the European Union's funds at all or reserve that they can be withdrawn. We also had to have an item that would work on these two things, which is therefore increasing the administrative capacity of entrepreneurs or providing services to entrepreneurs in that segment of administrative capacity and creating infrastructure. However, if there is no investment in the Croatian railway this year, you will expect Croatian railways to offer a truck transport service on the wagons. If this year's not going to get any of those cars, then how are you going to offer such a service? Or how you're going to offer a favor to link it to a ship or something else, so it's going to be a third option that's going to be a container terminal, etc. We, apart from "Spačva" for which we really have no idea in public what happened to the effects of "Spačva" we did nothing to develop an environmentally acceptable transport system. We haven't built any container parking, or the possibility of unloading containers anywhere else. Even more was one suggestion. We have in Koprivnica a practically completed building permit from the early '80s. These years, but when we did, the last three Croatian Railways administrations came to Koprivnica and offered to build this intermodal terminal in Koprivnica. We are in the heart of Central Europe. And that what comes, for example, in Rijeka by boat, comes by train to Koprivnica, from Koprivnica is further driven by truck wherever we want. We have a situation that we haven't done it, we have a situation that we haven't fixed the railway from Zagreb to Koprivnica, we have a situation that we haven't fixed or made another track track from Karlovac to Rijeka. And today we have a road situation full of profiles to Rijeka, but in two, three, four years, they're going to take out trucks that are going to drive a lot of cargo. Instead of transferring this huge amount of cargo to the train, entrepreneurs withdraw funds from the "Marca Polo" because of what they did and the Croatian state has three benefits. We have preserved highways that can serve us in what we should, and that is primarily tourism, we have a protected environment in Gorski Kotar, Podravina, Prigorje because they will not drop CO2 and we have competitive entrepreneurs because they will get a subsidy for transporting goods on that road. And that extra benefit we have the greater passable power of the port of Rijeka because half of it will go or a lot of it goes to the railroad. So, it's a good thing we're talking about Marco Paul II today. I'll vote for him. However, the government must be responsible for having a whole series of measures to ensure that Marco Polo II is used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26668	Thank you. Replica Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26669	So you'll join her in continuing actually to expose her colleagues and say some little corrections. Not the correction of the wrong quote, but in the replica. I am informed these days that it has started with designing voltages on the Zagreb-Rijek railway on a unique one, it may be a good indicator, regardless of the fact that this year there will be no procedure. However, I would like to emphasise that we really need to do more and therefore we from Zagorje support the measures relating to the modernisation of the railway, primarily for reasons why we are a border area. The fact that I am now speaking from the east of Croatia, towards the northwest, or the west, because I hope, at the internal borders of this moment, that the transport to the Macelj border with railway vehicles will be resolved by the inter-model transport to the railways. This implies electrification and modernisation of the railway to Zabok and then on the move between Zabok and Krapina design or predict the possibility of loading trucks. There are such initiatives from private entrepreneurs. There is an initiative by people dealing with railway and transport problems. And I think that, with the support of this project and the programme, I think that we should do everything together to make up for this backlog that is evident in the takeover by the railway truck transport services through the territory of the Republic of Croatia and for environmental reasons and for economic reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26670	Replicate response, Mr. Zavodnik Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26671	So I would just like to say that when you raised the question of the railway, that the Croatian Parliament has brought in one programming document, which is the Investment and Reconstruction Programme of the Croatian Railways. The programme is binding on the government and Croatian railways. We had a two-day debate about it in the last assembly. There are obligations in this document for both 2008 and 2010 Unfortunately, as well as numerous other documents that we have brought regarding the Croatian Railways, none of what is foreseen in 2008 has been made and nothing that is scheduled for 2009 will be done. So, unfortunately here we are discussing, we are out of opposition angry that the deadlines have been moved in two years but not even so... deadlines are not long enough to move away or delay to be sufficient for the Croatian government to invest in Croatian railways. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here you can see that when we get a report on "Marc Paul I" and the realization of "Marca Paul II" will be seen how bad it is that the Croatian railways have not been invested because we will not now be able to use us but entrepreneurs of the "Marca Paul II" and we will not be able to ensure that our entrepreneurs are competitive in the transport system because they will probably succeed in withdrawing funds from "Marca Polo", they are from "Marca Paul I", and they will probably also be from "Marca Paul II".
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26672	Final Review State Secretary Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26673	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. Here, I will answer certain questions that have been asked in the debate itself. And I would therefore immediately say that the competition for inclusion in the Marco Polo II programme is the European Commission through the General Transport Administration and that it is clearly Croatian entrepreneurs, Croatian carriers and all those who can participate in this competition in a certain way in relation to our ministry. However, in order to avoid any confusion about how the Government or the Resort Ministry is doing nothing in the part relating to the assistance of Croatian carriers to apply to this contest, I said in my introduction that three years ago in Rijeka a reference centre was established, a promotional centre for the inclusion of Croatian entrepreneurs in the Marco Polo I programme, namely the Marco Polo II programme, in line with the guidelines of the European Union where we are at that reference centre, in that promotional centre in the River "Sort Sea Shipping", so the center for "Sort sea Shipping" united all participants in transport, so shippers, ports, port administrations, Croatian highways, Croatian railways, agents, freighters. So, all those who are participating in this transport system, the transport chain is included in this very promotional centre in Rijeka that is currently on behalf of our ministry or government responsible for helping Croatian privates, Croatian entrepreneurs, potential users of Marco Polo so that they can prepare and report to the competition. It is exactly as the introduction said, therefore, that the more comprehensive Marco Polo II programme is significant than "Marco Polo I" and that around 450m euros are available to European consortiums participating together in a competition launched by the European Commission on 9 February. The third thing I wanted to say, it's not exactly the other way around. The Republic of Croatia, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is doing very large projects at this time and I will list them as going towards making Croatia a European competitive transport route. There is not one of the most important public ports, both in Dubrovnik and Split, and in Ploča, both in Zadar and in Rijeka, and in Sibenik at this time depend on what port in the development of projects that raise the competitiveness of the Croatian maritime system. Trade and transport integration projects are being implemented in Plots together with the World Bank and the European Bank. Dubrovnik also organizes the port of Gruž and reconstructs the port of Gruž. You know that the Parliament in the previous meeting also made a decision and confirmed the law entering the construction of the new port of Gazenica in Zadar, that a project of modernising the port in Sibenik will be coming to the Parliament very soon, as of 2003, to develop a project of Rijeka... to raise the competitiveness of Rijeka port. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, all Croatian ports are working to build new terminals in the first place, almost all ports container terminals, especially in Gaženica. In Zadar, we are currently working on a project that will be able to establish a quality maritime connection in the section relating to "Ro-Ro" ships. And when it mentions what we are doing at this time to establish a "Ro-Ro" link with the eastern Mediterranean or neighbouring country, so Italy will now be signed with the next visit of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia's Republic of Turkey a Memorandum of Cooperation between Antalya of the Turkish port and Zadar to establish a transport line that will also be able to be included in the Marco Polo II programme. When we talk about who they are, if anyone is interested, what we did to get Croatian carriers involved. Here, I want to say that several projects are being prepared for inclusion and I hope that they will already be able to report in this contest that lasts the month, so the possibility of establishing a continent line between Modena, Ploč and Bar. On the other hand, it is working to establish a "Ro-La" line between Spačva and Salzburg through the X. corridor of the railway line and this project will, already now I believe it at a very high stage that can apply to the competition in "Marco Polo II". There are several other projects. I mentioned earlier the establishment of a "Ro-Ro" line between Turkish ports and Croatian ports, so Rijeka and Zadar, Ploca and Split, the possibility of establishing the "Ro-Ro traffic to raise the competitiveness of that direction. It is true that not only in maritime transport but also in river transport, activities are being carried out on the rehabilitation of the Sava River waterway which is practically almost entirely parallel with the Xth Corridor and you know that in this sense the Sava Commission, which consists of four approximate states, so Croatia, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, is being established and that we are already at a very high stage of the location permit. I hope, too, that during 2010 and at the latest 2010, it will start with reconstruction, rehabilitation of the Sava River waterway, which will then clearly enable and be one of the potential projects that will therefore enable the establishment of a more environmentally acceptable and cost-effective transport vision compared to the road route and the Xth European road corridor. So, a series of projects and it is true that, even when it comes to railways, at this point, that the reconstruction of the X. corridor is done from Tovarnik to the border, to the state border somewhere around 40, 37 to 38 kilometers, and in the greatest part of the European pre-accession funds in order to clear 10 corridors... competitiveness of Croatian railways, i.e. Croatian railway infrastructure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is also ratification and modernisation in the rest of the Croatian railway network. Therefore, there is no indication that the Republic of Croatia does not work or does little to raise competitiveness when it comes to raising the transport competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia. I said first and foremost in the maritime, I also said in the river, and I cited examples in rail transport where these projects are being implemented at the moment. And clearly, according to some development strategy, the transport strategy of the Republic of Croatia has invested so far in establishing and modernising Croatian road infrastructure, primarily building highways and certainly improving and reconstructing state roads. Therefore, I think that through all these projects, the competitiveness of the Croatian transport routes is ensured and increased on the one hand and on the other hand all the participants in the transport chain, in this chain, the provision of services from the beginning, so to the end of that transport chain, a large number of investments are being made to enable Croatian carriers to join the Marco Polo II where this ecological efficiency of the transport system is therefore increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26674	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Zavodnik Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26675	Well, the secretary of state said there's something going on on the railroad. So it is incorrect to do something, because the government cannot do something, the government must do what this Croatian Parliament has adopted. And he adopted that the 5b corridor you silenced in your presentation is doing nothing. Except you've listed some other things. So perhaps the correction should be that Croatia also has a land, that Marco Polo also refers to the transport of goods on land. And maybe it wouldn't be a bad idea to know that once upon a time there was a Pannonian sea in the Pannonian plain and that maybe we could reconstruct something there.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26676	My colleague, this is not exactly a correction to the incorrect allegations of the Pannonian sea. It was a Pannonian sea. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Marco Polo II programme. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 107 votes in favour and 1 abstention of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26679	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Therefore, in short only the reasons for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Unions which are therefore originally adopted in 2006 and the 2006 Law are governed by the conditions for the establishment and termination of the work of credit unions and supervision of the business of credit unions. Since the date of entry into force of this law has ceased to apply the Savings and Credit Cooperatives Act. All savings-credit cooperatives had three options within the prescribed deadline. One is to make a decision on continuing work as a credit union or to reshape into a savings bank or to take a decision on the termination of a savings-credit cooperative and to initiate the liquidation procedure. We are the current situation as we have that 80 or more than 80 savings-credit cooperatives have launched the liquidation process and they can in fact only carry out operations to carry out the liquidation procedures in this winding-up process. These operations will, of course, take a longer period of time, and in practice, the need to prescribe and regulate supervision of savings and credit unions in liquidation has arisen. In this respect, it was also necessary to lay down, of course, the infringement provisions for the savings-credit cooperatives in liquidation which are acting contrary to the provisions of this law. What is being arranged for these amendments and additions to the law? More specifically, the supervisory procedure, on the one hand, of the Ministry of Finance over the savings-credit cooperatives in liquidation, will need to be adopted, of course, and certain sublegal acts. On the other hand, it should also be said, of course, that the Croatian National Bank remains in line with the provisions of the original law in a position to exercise certain supervision. Otherwise, the supervision of the winding-up procedure would normally be carried out by authorised officials of the Ministry of Finance, of course, following the authority of the Minister of Finance. As regards the more detailed definition of transactions which make these amendments and additions seem or proposes for the savings-credit cooperatives in liquidation they can only carry out operations for the purpose of liquidation. Therefore, they are not allowed to receive new savings, not to extend the savings achieved, not to grant new loans or extend the credits due. They shall also not carry out trading operations or conclude other transactions other than those necessary for the liquidation of the liquidation mass in order to settle the liabilities of the savings-credit cooperative in liquidation. Of course, during the winding-up process, a savings-credit cooperative is obliged to report at least once a year to the Ministry of Finance on the course of the liquidation process and, finalise this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Credit Union Act, supplement the infringement provisions in the event that the savings-credit cooperatives in liquidation naturally act contrary to the provisions of the Credit Union Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26680	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Committee on Finance and the State Budget? The chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26681	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At the 22nd session held on 11 December 2008, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Credit Unions with the final draft of the law as a parent working body. The Committee unanimously supported the proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt this law by emergency procedure and at the same time supported the law in question and decided to unanimously propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Unions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26682	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP advocates' club, Mrs. Nada Cavlovic, Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26683	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. By the entry into force of the Credit Union Act, the Savings and Credit Cooperatives Act had ceased to apply and all savings and credit cooperatives were to decide by the end of April 2007 to transform into a credit union or a savings bank or a decision to terminate the savings and credit union, to initiate the liquidation procedure. Out of a total of 104 savings-credit cooperatives, the liquidation has triggered more than 80 of them. Since the savings-credit cooperatives in liquidation can only carry out operations for the implementation of the winding-up procedure with this proposal, the law requires, among other things, the implementation of the supervision of the work of the savings-credit cooperatives in liquidation as well as the infringement provisions for those savings-credited cooperatives in liquidation which are acting contrary to the provisions of the Credit Union Act. In the case of the adoption of the Credit Union Act, which applies from 1. 1. In 2007, it was said that order should be put in place in this segment of the financial market which was the scene of numerous affairs, interest rates and major traumas of Croatian citizens who have lost all their money and life savings in various cooperatives over the past period. It was also necessary to restore confidence in this part of the financial market, which gained a bad reputation as a result of the collapse and bankruptcy of certain savings-credit cooperatives. One of the goals that should have been achieved by passing this law is to end the so-called. loans from lighting pillars, but the objective has not yet been achieved. The pillars are still full of various offers where loans can be implemented immediately, only the question under which conditions and with which interest. It is also a question of who offers such loans, and it is clear to all of us that these people for such jobs do not have any approval, in other words, that they are doing it on black. Nevertheless, the state is doing nothing about it. Croatian citizens are still prey for the interest rate, and these will become more and more, as loans are becoming more difficult in special banks. If something were to be done, supervisory services whose job it is would come to these people very simply because any such ad in the printed media, as well as elsewhere, has a telephone number. It would be interesting to hear if he did anything at all to monitor such a business at the expense of the state and Croatian citizens. Whether they're protecting someone's interests or simply not interested in anyone. I would also like to say something about this bill that we are discussing today. Articles 5 to 7 of this proposal of the law stipulates that supervision of savings and credit cooperatives shall be carried out by authorised officials of the Ministry of Finance based on the supervision procedure to be prescribed by the Minister of Finance within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law. The exception is those savings-credit cooperatives where the CNB rejected the application for authorisation for work. The question arises as to why the provisions on the supervision of savings-credit cooperatives in liquidation, as well as the prerogative of criminal penalties for those cooperatives acting against the provisions of this law, were not introduced in the very law on credit unions. Why did it take two years to regulate that area? Was there not enough examples of abuse and illegality in the past of savings-credited cooperatives? In this way, the possibility was given to all those cooperatives who made the decision to stop working and who started the liquidation to continue doing what they wanted, and the number of those who went into liquidation was really big, more than 80. As a result of the failure to prescribe the provisions on the supervision of the business of savings and credit cooperatives on liquidation, there is no idea at all what these cooperatives are doing, whether they are actually only performing those tasks that may be subject to the applicable law, which is the payment of claims on issued credits, the settlement of liabilities by the basis of the deposit agreement, or perhaps making new deals, carrying out payment transactions and receiving new savings deposits. Do these cooperatives in liquidation provide any reports to anyone, even if they deliver them, can they be trusted? And if the savings-credit cooperatives in liquidation were doing criminal acts, I will illustrate here the example of the two savings-credit cooperatives from Virovitica. This example is now current because the damaged savings, a total of 1200 during 2008, were sued by the Republic of Croatia for the losses of around 105 million kuna. The damaged ones are saving for the loss of their money directly burdened by the Ministry of Finance, which took away the approval for the work of the crafts savings-credit association and ordered the launch of the liquidation process. However, in the winding-up process, cooperatives continued to carry out jobs that were not in accordance with the law, concluded contracts, sold all the properties, and transferred cash through various cash payments to a new craft-saving cooperative, and was established and started to work. The Ministry of Finance, which was supervised after the winding-up procedure, no longer controlled how the liquidation was carried out, did so later when all the real estate and funds simply disappeared. All of this led to the fact that, I repeat, citizens lost 105 million kuna. And not only that, it was possible for the same persons in the same place where the cooperative in liquidation was established a new cooperative with a very similar name, creating fertile soil for serious crime. And if the management of the cooperative's operations in liquidation had been carried out, the crime could have been prevented. This is just one example of many in Croatia, so it was not enough that when the Law on Credit Unions was adopted, provisions on who would oversee the operations of savings-credit cooperatives in liquidation in order to prevent such illegalities in the process of liquidation and to avoid the traumas experienced by Croatian citizens due to lost savings. There's no excuse for that. Finally, these amendments, in Article 7 of this proposal, stipulate that, during the winding-up procedure, a savings-credit cooperative is required to submit at least once a year a report to the Ministry of Finance on the course of the liquidation process. It would not be good for the supervision of the Ministry of Finance to be limited only to the received reports, but rather to be carried out, because the question is how accurate these reports are because the liquidation procedure itself is normally carried out by the members of the administration as liquidators. It is therefore necessary to establish, through the supervision of authorised officials, the real state and manner of business of these cooperatives, because experience suggests that crime took place in the liquidation process, which also confirms the example of the Zanatski zastupno-credita cooperative in Virovitica. The SDP Club will support the adoption of these amendments to the law, but note that these amendments to the Credit Union Act are delayed and are two years late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26684	Thank you. HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26685	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. It is known that by the entry into force of the Credit Union Act two years ago, it ceased to apply the Savings and Credit Cooperatives Act which could subsequently continue operations as a credit union or had to be transformed into a savings bank. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Credit Union Act has therefore also arisen as a result of the need to regulate a large part of the savings-credit cooperatives which have not been reshaped within the prescribed deadline, but have already decided on the termination of the savings-credit cooperative and initiated the liquidation procedure. Such savings-credit cooperatives are more than 80 and have not continued to work as a credit union, have not transformed into a savings bank, but have started the liquidation process. This proposal for a final proposal of the Credit Union Act regulates the way in which savings and credit cooperatives can be implemented in liquidation and determines that they can only carry out activities and tasks related to the implementation of the winding-up procedure and this Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Credit Union Act provides for supervision of savings and credit unions in liquidation, as well as infringement provisions for savings-credit cooperatives. Article 85 of this proposal provides for the Croatian National Bank to prescribe the procedure and way of monitoring the winding-up process and we believe that this Final Proposal of the Credit Union Act will contribute to the fight against abuse in the winding-up process, which will be managed by both the Ministry of Finance and the Croatian National Bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26686	Thank you. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26687	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When we talk about amending the Law on Credit Unions, it is impossible not to say that it refers to changes to the laws we have passed, or not to us, but to the previous assembly of the Parliament in 2006 and which began to be valid since 1.1.2007. At that moment there were 104 savings-credit cooperatives with deposits worth around a billion and 320 million kuna and there were over 170 000 cooperatives, Croatian citizens who pooled their funds to help certain entrepreneurs or citizens who needed money for a particular job or other needs. What the state secret said at the outset, there were three options these savings-credited cooperatives had to choose by 30.4.2007. So, under number one, under the law, they could become a savings-credit union. Under number two of the savings, or savings bank and number three, they could have chosen the liquidation. What happened for the credit union is let's just say it was the easiest thing to do. 500,000 kunas needed money. For a bank as we can see now after two, almost two years of law enforcement has not yet been granted one, and several have submitted it. It is likely that several savings-credit cooperatives will grow into savings banks, and over 80 have chosen the liquidation process. So there were already 15 cooperatives in the beginning that were either in liquidation or bankruptcy, and another 70 chose to go into liquidation. And what's going on? It is almost incredible that the legislator in the beginning did not already foresee supervision, because it is still a large property. All those banks spinning that money, it means a billion, and 300 million kuna deposits made some value, had some property, etc. They had to do the job, and they had to do those deposits and those loans they gave to the end, but there wasn't any surveillance. So for two years now, it will expire that these savings-credit cooperatives are without any supervision, or there was no way to see what they're doing here, how they're carrying out the liquidation process. Do they even implement it in such a way that it is legal and that they may still be doing some services that this law does not allow them to do? It reminds me of how we passed a law that, and it was hard not to understand immediately at the beginning that the vast majority of these cooperatives would choose to liquidate, because they simply won't be able to meet the conditions to become banks. And it could have been assumed that there would be a large number of liquidations and that it should have been put into law from the beginning and in this way we can understand that it might have been missed and said that it was here El' Dorado for two years in liquidation you could have sold the property without anyone having control over how this property was sold to savings-credit cooperatives and whether it was all done legally. That's, let's just say it's a little privatisation when we're looking at the '90s just because it's a lot less property. But certainly a serious failure to pass the first form of law and it had to be taken into account. When I look on the other side, I've given myself a little effort and I've been through it on the Internet. It's almost amazing that two years here now after the law came into force, on the Internet when you type in a savings-credit cooperative to kick you out more or less websites like that savings-credit cooperatives are still working. Here I go in a row. Noa Savings and Credit Co-operation, Savings and Credit Co-operation of the City, Solida Savings and Credit Co-operation. They're all savings-credit cooperatives as if they're still doing business the way they've done business until then, and the question is whether they can even point out whether they're obviously some brand acquired all those years, whether they can even point out that they're still savings-credited cooperatives. And they offer neat upstairs and credits for craftsmen, etc. Therefore, it is obvious that no order has been introduced in that part of the market, i.e. a law which has been in force for two years has not been applied. I will, of course, accept this law, i.e. support and can only say that I am extremely sorry that it means enormous property that has entered into liquidation, so that all these companies must be aware of zero, it has been left for two years without any supervision, and I will dare say that when the law was passed, or that it is a serious failure that the legislator had already had to foresee or perhaps knowingly entered into that way to allow the assets that have been acquired by those cooperatives for the past ten years, that this property is so to say liquidated under the grain, that it is not known in which way and how much money was obtained for certain things, or not to be controlled by the state. And that's why I'm saying, I'm gonna uphold the law. But I'm sad that for two years it's been built under the grain, that there's no state control of what's going on in that sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26688	Thank you. Two replicas. First, Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26689	Dear colleague Maras, I will agree with you that the law should be welcomed but that he is two years late, a year and a half late. This is not good, however, but there is no person in this country who will not welcome the adoption of laws that will close the doors to certain malfeasances, and in this part of the exploitation of certain let's say half the legal levers for the storage of murky businesses. But what we have to ask, and the question needs to be answered, and I will answer is who will pay the damaged savings in some number, i.e. a large number of savings-credit cooperatives where these cases have surfaced that have sued the Republic of Croatia. The taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia will pay when the story comes up and that is what is not good. There's no need to generalize. Not all savings-credit cooperatives lay murky jobs. But the fact is that one part of them has certainly been using these years and a half of the alignment, i.e. The lack of supervision in order to acquire a certain material property benefit and so much is the lack of that surveillance and through the non-resolvement of the issue legally legalized that good old claim "Who has been bailing, he has pitted". So, it doesn't matter if, which there is no surveillance, it's important that in a year and a half, this surveillance is late and it is therefore extremely important to talk about it, but also to get an answer on who will pay their savings that are damaged, and we only heard from the Virovitica case for more than 105 million kuna 1200 savings to pay their savings. Unfortunately, the taxpayers will pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26690	Replication response, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26691	Thank you very much. Well, the whole story's paradox is that most of the work that was expected to happen has not been defined by any surveillance. You ask the responsible people now if maybe some savings-credit association in liquidation still lends money? There is no one to answer because no one is monitoring what is happening there and it is amazingly simple that when the law was passed, I hope, unwittingly to adopt that provision and two years is definitely too late, many people have been damaged, many have offered services that were not even allowed to be offered on the market, and they have continued to hunt at the end in a blurry and taking advantage of the chance that no one is controlling them.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26692	Next replica, Mrs. Representative Nada Cavlović Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26693	So, fellow Maras, you asked in your debate whether the savings-credit cooperatives in liquidation are doing those jobs for which they are no longer authorized. Right? I will now give you an argument, i.e. that in the Evening List, it was published in 15.12.2008 where it says that the citizen took a loan of 17 thousand kuna, will return 86 thousand kuna and continue to explain in this text that the public notebooks say that such loans are increasingly available. I suppose it's probably these savings-credited cooperatives that are in liquidation, which these loans should no longer give, but they, for two years without supervision of the liquidation process, are giving just like these interest loans, which, behold, are to the interest of the lenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26694	Replication response, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26695	Thank you very much, Mrs. Nado Cavlović Smiljanec. Normally, when no one controls you do what you want, but I told you, I wrote on the Internet just the notion of a savings-credit cooperative, it's obvious from this that they're still more or less active. They all work, they borrow money like nothing happened. I'm not saying that maybe some of these savings-credit cooperatives didn't apply and that they would become credit unions, and one of them would obviously become a savings bank. But it is amazing that it is invisible from this and that they operate according to the rules that should have ceased to apply two years ago, and on the other hand that no one has ever had the possibility by the state or the Croatian National Bank to ask what you gentlemen are doing and whether you are in liquidation, whether you are still, even though you are in liquidation, lend money, as you said in this newspaper article.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26696	Thank you. Final review, proposed by State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Zdravko Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26697	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, thanks to all the participants in the debate. I think you've said more specifically than I have in the first place the reasons why we're going into this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Unions and with the vast majority of the things you've said can be agreed on, but still not with some. First of all, as it is said, the business of these savings-credit cooperatives during this transitional period, i.e. for the last two years, has been unsupervised. I would say, however, that the supervision of the Ministry of Finance's services has also resulted in, among other things, this being that we go with a proposal to amend and supplement to monitor and control even more closely and generally control these savings-credit cooperatives in liquidation. Otherwise, as far as this data is concerned, I'm just going to fill it out with one, we still have 7 savings-credit cooperatives that are practically in the pre-determined phase, so they filed a request for credit union status or a savings bank. We know that 29 of them have already been approved, or one as a savings bank. Of course, the remaining amount, as we've heard, is some 80 savings-credit cooperatives in liquidation with about a billion kunas of activity, and I think exactly the surveillance we've been doing during these, during this period of the previous two years actually was and resulted in exactly what we've said. So if you're saying that you're opening a website on the Internet that they're doing the most normal business, I think that's what I'm saying at the outset, so in any case, you're going to do more detail on this business and define what they can, or they can't do explicitly. Otherwise, just let me finish, what I got from the Committee on Law, two amendments the government accepts anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26698	2 corrections, Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26699	It wasn't us, I didn't say at least, Mr. Secretary of State said that I claimed that they were unsupervised. Of course they were supervised in that part of the state's laws define that the ministry, tax administration or anyone else has the right to see business. I'm saying that the winding-up...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26700	Comrade Maras, please don't say what you said, but if you have an correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26701	Mr. Secretary said that I said that they were unsupervised, I said that they were part of the liquidation without supervision and there was a false allegation. No, I don't, but that's why the law is passed. It is very important to say that the liquidation of savings-credit cooperatives has been unsupervised for two years since the law came into force.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26702	That's one explanation. Second correction, Ms. Representative Nada Cavlović Smiljanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26703	So Mr. Secretary of State said that the savings-credit cooperatives in liquidation were, that they could be supervised, that it was the Ministry of Finance, but in my debate on behalf of the club, I highlighted the example... where the supervision was carried out by the Ministry of Finance and in the winding-up process, where however 120 million kuna disappeared in the winding-up process, and then I wonder what kind of supervision was done by the Ministry of Finance's competent services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26704	My colleague, it's worth the same. You're asking questions. Let's not go through the form of incorrect allegations. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Unions. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted these amendments and they are not voted on because they become an integral part of the final draft of the law. I am voting on this final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. Unanimously, with 108 votes in favour, passed the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26707	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, just a brief explanation of this law. It is, in fact, a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Montenegro on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal. So far, the issue of the readmission between Croatia and Montenegro has been regulated by an agreement signed with the previous state Yugoslavia since 23 April 2002. Since Montenegro has been left alone, there has been a need to sign such an agreement, but otherwise there has been a need to amend and correct this agreement in order to bring it in line with European practice and to resolve the issue of return of persons whose stay was illegal in the Republic of Croatia in a better and more effective manner. specific trends have been observed by monitoring legal and illegal migration. The Ministry of the Interior also takes care of these trends to make these illegal migrations as little as possible, i.e. that all foreigners in the Republic of Croatia have a regulated stay as detailed as possible in this next law, the Foreign Law. Otherwise, the Republic of Croatia has signed readmission agreements with 24 states, this will be 25 agreements. And all these agreements have so far proved to be a good legal framework for Croatia's effective fight and cooperation with other countries in the fight against illegal migration and illegal residence of foreign citizens in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26708	Thank you. The committees? I'm opening a debate. The club of HDZ Representatives Mrs. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26709	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Montenegro which confirms this law, on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal, constitutes a further development of relations in the cooperation of the two countries in the field of police affairs, i.e. the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Interior in the part of the cross-border flow of persons, and in order to ensure mechanisms for the fight against illegal migration as one of the problems covered intensively by the European Union and the Council of Europe. In order to address this area, therefore, the issues of illegal migration, here is the Republic of Croatia proposing a law confirming another bilateral agreement, as we heard from State Secretary 25th in a row. The Croatian Democratic Community supports the adoption of legislation confirming the concluded agreement as a continuation of the two countries' co-operation in many other areas. Here I may mention here today only the Agreement on Cross-border Cooperation in the event of natural disasters and natural disasters, the co-operation of the State's Attorney's Office and the Prosecutor's Office in cross-border cooperation in the fight against organised crime and the processing of war crimes. The co-operation that is regulated by the agreement has so far taken place between the two countries, but the foundation of the 202-year agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and given the political changes and the independence of Montenegro, it is necessary to continue to formalise this cooperation with the new special agreement with the government of Montenegro. This Agreement and Protocol shall specify the issues of direct cooperation between the competent authorities in the reception of persons, their own nationals or nationals of third countries or persons without nationality whose entry or stay in the country of the party to the agreement is illegal. The terms are defined for the sake of uniform application of the Agreement, the procedures of the competent authorities are laid down, exemptions from the obligation to take over third-country nationals or stateless persons shall be determined, the provision of costs shall be regulated, the obligation to inform each State's competent authorities of each Party of the Agreement, the deadlines of conduct shall be established and provisions on the protection of personal data in the interaction. Due to the need to regulate this extremely significant area of the issue of illegal migration, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law in order for its provisions to become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26710	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Act confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Montenegro on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal. I am voting on this final draft of the law. Let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. Unanimously, with 111 votes accepted, passed this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26713	Thank you very much. As I said about the explanation of the previous point, you have before you the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreigners Act in the second reading. After the adoption of the previous amendments and the addition of the Act on Foreigners which entered into force. 1. In 2008, we saw certain problems and shortcomings in its application, and there was also the need to align certain provisions with European directives and the European acquis. The reasons for the adoption of this law, i.e. the proposed amendments, are to add a provision to the new acquis on the provision of geometric data to foreigners when issuing a visa. In fact, the Republic of Croatia will issue the same issue this year, start issuing a biometric passport, which is already a practice in many countries. So this will certainly be another additional security element in regulating the movement and residence of foreigners. The provisions of Article 8 are then deleted. A law that prescribed that a minor foreigner entering the Republic of Croatia must have the approved consent of a legal representative. In fact, every year during the tourist season, and even before during the school trips, we have a problem with entering school children in the Republic of Croatia either on a trip or a vacation and this problem has been solved by the Law on the Control of the State Border. A category of foreigners who can apply for the approval of the first temporary stay in the police department or police station has been extended. Then an extended category of foreigners who can be granted temporary stay for the purpose of joining the family as a member of the foreign family on temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia without a time limit of two years. A category of foreigners who can be granted permanent stay has been extended before the deadline of five years of approved temporary stay in case of foreigners staying in the Republic of Croatia for ten years in temporary protection status and have a three-year temporary stay. This is one important newspaper that will allow for better quality regulation of foreign residents living in the Republic of Croatia for humanitarian reasons. Foreigners seeking permanent residence will have to prove their knowledge of Croatian culture and social order with knowledge of Croatian language and Latin script. What I think is also one of the major newspapers is that a provision has been introduced to hand over a work permit at the competent police administration at the same time as a request for temporary stay and that request may also be submitted by the employer. In fact, so far, there have been a lot of problems faced by foreigners about submitting applications, especially their employers when asking for a work permit. We believe that this unique procedure will facilitate and simplify this process. The conditions under which business permits may be issued to foreigners are strengthened. Thus far, it has been a practice that these business permits have been misused by mass or by this business licence institute, and I will document this to you later on about the number of work and business licenses. And this will further strengthen the possibility of abuse or sanctioning and exclude the possibility of abuse of a business permit institute that has so far been massively misused. A business licence may be issued to foreigners engaged in the free profession by means of enrolment in the relevant register of the Republic of Croatia. Different conditions relating to the issue of a work permit outside the annual quota have been laid down for foreigners in such a way that, in accordance with the level of the underlying capital of the company, the number of work permits that can be issued to key staff are limited. It is prescribed that outside the annual quota work permits may be issued to foreigners who have established a working relationship in foreign associations, foundations and foundations. This was one of the requirements of the European Union. Namely, persons who came to the Republic of Croatia for business reasons but there were other occupations... The staff had a lot of problems with regulating their status in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The provisions of the applicable Time limit Act of six months for a business permit for a service provider on behalf of an foreign employer have been deleted and the provision for not to be regarded as a business for which a work permit is issued has been deleted. In relation to the applicable law, categories of foreigners are proposed to work without a work permit or business permit, given the duration of work 90, 60 or 30 days. Also, there are extended categories of foreigners who can work for up to a year without a work permit or business license. These are primarily by correspondents accredited in the Republic of Croatia, representatives of staff and religious communities, professors and lecturers at the invitation of Croatian higher universities. It is also new that citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area can be granted temporary stay for the purpose of using real estate with a period of up to one year. The Ministry of the Interior, together with the Ministry of Labour, Economy and Entrepreneurship, monitors trends in migration and in legal residents of foreign citizens in the Republic of Croatia. There have been debates over the draft amendments to this law, even doubting that this law may allow foreign labour citizens to enter in conditions where it is realistic to expect perhaps problems with the preservation of jobs in the Republic of Croatia. However, it is through the changes that came into force in 1.1 last year that these additional ones should definitely be introduced in order to exclude, or to minimise, attempts to abuse, first of all, the Institute of Business Authorisations. I'll tell you just a few details. In 2004, a total of 6000 335 permits were issued. Of these, there were 2 thousand 979 work permits and 3 thousand 356 business licenses, which is definitely a illogical data that includes the abuse of the business permit institute. Such cases of abuse grew from year to year, so in 2007, this relationship was 5 thousand 264 work permits and 6 thousand 820 business licenses, in total 12 thousand 84 work permits and residence permits. After a change in the law that came into force in 1.1.2008, this relationship changed radically so that a total of 12 thousand 778 permits were issued last year, but of which there were 11 thousand 337 work permits and a thousand 441 business permits. So, we have already managed to bring order into this area, and these proposed changes, I am sure that we will make even more quality arrangements for the arrival and stay of foreigners who come to the Republic of Croatia for business reasons, especially in that so-called. the business creation of citizens of the European Union and of the European Economic Area who have had some problems with coming to the Republic of Croatia, and most often when they have come to do those jobs that do not compete with the labour force of the Republic of Croatia, which were primarily university professors, scientists, highly qualified staff who have often or taught at our universities or have performed highly sophisticated and intellectual jobs that I repeat were not competition with our workforce but have, on the contrary, contributed to the development of science, education and other segments in the Republic of Croatia. So, I say, it was indeed our intention to make these proposed amendments and amendments to the law to specify and simplify the arrival and stay of foreign citizens, above all, of the members of the European Economic Area, of which the Republic of Croatia can and certainly wants to benefit, and on the other hand, to prevent the abuse of this establishment of business licenses and ultimately, in line with the movement of the economic situation of the Republic of Croatia, the Government will surely be able to influence its annual labour permit quota to prevent the excessive and unnecessary entry of the foreign labour force into the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26714	Thank you. We'll interrupt and continue at 3:00 with reports from the board as many as there are in the club debate. The SDP representative club, Mr Sima Luci, is the first in the debate after the committee's report, possibly. We continue with the session and the debate on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Law. Reports from the board. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports? The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security? The Committee on Gender Equality? The chairman of the board of Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26716	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Gender Equality at the 14th session discussed the final proposal of the Foreign Law. The Committee discussed the proposal as an interested working body. Introductoryly, the applicant's representative made the amendments proposed by this proposal. The provisions relating to the refusal to enter and exit foreigners from the Republic of Croatia are detailed and define the concept of carriers and the concept of marriage for benefit are defined. Furthermore, the category of foreigners who can be granted temporary stay is expanded. In the following debate, the Ombudsman’s comments on children related to the proposed erasure of the provisions on the entry and exit of minors from the Republic of Croatia were raised. The proposer explained that the issue of the entry and exit of minors from Croatia is now regulated by another law. Furthermore, the debate showed disagreement with the proposed erasure of the item on the scope of the aid programme and the protection of victims of trafficking in human beings. The applicant's representative agreed, after a mistake, to submit an amendment to that provision. After the debate was held, members and members of the committee unanimously decided to submit amendments to the Croatian Assembly on Article 22, where in paragraph 1, the words "paragraphs 2 and 3" are replaced by the words "Articles 2 and 4". This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Foreign law, not paragraphs 2 and 3. Members and members of the board unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26717	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? For human rights and the rights of national minorities? Committee for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, Chairman of the Committee Mr. Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26718	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At its 10th session, the Croatian Committee for the Republic of Croatia discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The proposer presented the Foreigner Act which came into force in 1.1.2008 whose shortcomings were quickly identified in connection with the approval of temporary stay and work permits, the definition of the concept of carriers, the problem of submitting different requirements outside the Republic of Croatia for persons already living in the Republic of Croatia, the approval of the stay of foreigners who come for scientific and research work, the problems of refugees who have lived in Croatia for over ten years and have not yet regulated their status and have no right to work, etc. Under the new provisions, foreigners who want to approve permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia must know not only Latin and Croatian but also Croatian culture and social order. It also extends to the category i.e. a list of foreigners who can obtain work permits outside the quotas. The debate mentioned concerns about the consequences that may arise from some of the provisions, such as the possibility of the various religious sects, or religious officials, and the possibility of abuse in connection with which different sects are opened that want to fight religious status and do not legally provide for a number of followers in the Republic of Croatia. In the follow-up, the debate focused on the issue of Croatians who do not have Croatian citizenship and would be treated as foreigners under the proposal. In earlier discussions led by the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, it is proposed that Croatians who do not have Croatian citizenship should not be considered foreigners but should be given special status and benefits for staying, work, study and purchase of real estate, according to the reputation of some European solutions. In fact, the Republic of Croatia had legislative practice before this law on the employment of foreigners that was valid until the adoption of this law, which gave this group of our countrymen special status, so they were not considered foreigners. The requirements in line with this came from representatives of some Croatian foreign institutions such as the Croatian World Congress but also from representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce who represent the view that this is not only a symbolic recognition to Croats without Croatian citizenship but also a question of the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce, contrary to the current economic crisis, needs workers of specific professions who need approval and a significant number of them are among our countrymen who do not have Croatian citizenship. This would simplify and reduce the waiting procedure and would generally facilitate the procedure and obtain citizenship because during that time those who submitted the request could stay and work in Croatia. All of this is in line with the conclusions of the International Conference on the topic "Inhabitation Policy in the Function of the Development of the Republic of Croatia" organised by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. Demographic and immigration policy is becoming more and more essentially one policy of the component of the overall economic policy. Due to the problem which is of the interest of this committee, with the agreement of the present representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the conclusion has been reached on the need to hold a joint thematic session of the Committee on issues of the status of Croats without citizenship, the procedure for obtaining citizenship and the general immigration policy. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26719	Thank you. The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club Mr. Representative Sima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26720	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with his associates. Well, here's a few notes since we've been dealing with this problem on several occasions in this House over the past few years. Otherwise, when issues on the agenda that treat the movement of people, or migration, whether they are motivated by political, economic or because of something third, they are causing a lot of attention for a simple reason, because these rules that regulate these relations with the right to exit, entry, residence, etc. talk a lot about society itself, or the state itself. So, to the extent that this country is not afraid of foreigners, to whom it is secure in its safety, of its stability as well as of the functioning of all parts of the system. In fact, this law, therefore the Law on Foreigners, or these amendments that are offered to us, may need to be discussed in one broader context, bearing in mind all other solutions, here we have heard now and the representatives of the board, for a simple reason perhaps it should also bring into the context of the Law on Croatian Citizenship, Asylum, so the whole segment of the issue that deals with migration. So we simply show a certain problem that is treated by individual laws. Given that this proposal actually goes into some kind of, I would like to call them the minor changes that we think should contribute to the functioning of this law and to solving issues as in one section of the nomotechnical issue. There's no reason the SDP club can't support this law. But by spreading a few years ago the problem and mentioning the law on citizenship and asylum, etc. and this problem about one number, a good number of Croats who do not have Croatian citizenship, therefore, are not, have no regulated status, I would mention that there are also people in Croatia who are not Croats who actually do not have defined status. First of all, I think of Bosniaks, late for application, etc. And so on and so forth. Maybe the time has come to actually solve one, the other and the third conglomerate of all these issues by opening one, one broad discussion. So maybe this idea of starting with one thematic debate on committees or joint committee sessions might help make this story even better, even better. Otherwise, as I said, the SDP Club will support this bill's proposal, but here's reading, reading a little bit of that law, Comparing it with so far-intentioned, so we'd be praying to the motionary for some clarifications and seeing the possibilities of whether maybe if you need something to change and fix it. Noting, therefore, that this law speaks a lot about openness, democracy, stability of the system but always taking care of the citizens of their own state. It might not be bad to hear some clarification, since this law liberalises the entry of foreigners in one part, especially those who come to work and do business in Croatia. And on the other hand, we know that, given the situation, this year, by somewhere more than 20%, the odds have been reduced, right, I think there were 10 grand and something last year, about 11, now they've been reduced somewhere to 8 grand and something. I know there's been a lot of shouting around the union. Or perhaps we should hear a metric assessment of whether that number of quotas, or whether they are in coalition with these proposals on liberalisation in some parts or not. So I immediately come to the question of whether there will be some kind of register of broader professions for which licenses will be granted, rather than what is listed in the proposal. 'Cause there's some kind of occupation out there, I don't know the lecturers, professors. I don't know if it applies to singers, actors, football players, or to those who visit, say a few months in Croatia, or whether there should be no misunderstanding and possibility of creating one discretionary option by police administrations, and there should be at least a list of interests if not a number in full. So it is not clear from that article whether it is just these occupations or there are other occupations. Another thing that seems to me to be a little bit of a discussion, which is Article 5 of this Law and related to Article 27 of the Old Law. So it states that visas, visas, border police can change, or suspend and so on. It is little in fact to say so in a certain way recognition of your own incompetence or poor coordination. If there's an embassy of our own or the Foreign Ministry that allows us to say an entry visa for Croatia, I find it a little odd that the border police can do so. Regardless, I don't know what can change in two or three days or 10 days to make a new decision. I think all previous actions that imply that visas should be made so that border police only have to give, to control whether the visa is valid or not. I don't know if we're thinking of anything else, if it is, it would be good to hear it. So, also who can't get, who will lose the right to work permit, I think that's in Article 8. So he says he won't get a person suspected of wanting to avoid a crime. I don't know if it's just a formulation that's been taken over by some law. Because when a stranger comes, you're going to ask for a work permit or a business license, to determine whether he's a suspect, or whether he's suspected of committing some kind of crime, or to flee from the law of persecution from his own country. So perhaps that article should make that clear. Now, since one of the newspapers is also listed in the introduction of the reasoning of the law itself, it is therefore, among other things, defined by the carrier. So it is clear to me why the carrier is defined, therefore, that it is the person who transports foreigners, she is obliged to determine whether they are all legal or partly illegal so that eventually they can, if they entered Croatia illegally, return to their cost. However, I do not understand why the commanders of sports boats and recreational boats therefore seem to refer to them the same definition of carriers. Especially if they don't have the papers to transport any passengers, so they can't even transport strangers. So, it wouldn't be bad for us to hear that clarification. Because that defacto means that in fact all those who have papers that can drive a sports or recreational boat fall under this provision. But it would be good to hear an explanation. Maybe I'm getting the wrong idea. And one more thing that seems very important to me, and it's a marriage of benefit. We've talked a lot about this on a few committees, too. I know that there is an old law there, or still applicable law in Article 57, that several things about family reunion are listed there, and now they become criteria to determine whether any marriage is beneficial, or whether someone married someone to gain the right to enter or stay, and then perhaps eventually to get citizenship. It seems to me that this is a very sensitive topic, because the fact that spouses don't sleep in the same room or on the same bed doesn't necessarily mean that their marriage is of benefit, that I don't go into detail and I don't elaborate. Perhaps the proposal to consider that this is clearly defined by some regulation, by a sublegal act, because it can be ticky matter. After all, we know that big business has been done in some countries, and there have been major scandals in some countries. And now there's one thing that applies to criminal provisions, and that's what I'd end up with. So it's supposed to be there that an employer whose construction site finds workers who don't have papers, so foreigners who don't have work permits, punishes me for up to 30,000 kunas, and that after they pay that fine for every paperless worker, they can continue the job. It just seems to me that it's such a simple punishment, or a small punishment for a simple reason because you have big companies that work, I don't know how many people, and maybe in some situations, I don't know if it's for one worker or just one who isn't a relapser, but it seems to me that it should be sharper in the sense that, say, in people who often or often do, that they should be closed down by a construction site or a workshop or something else, it doesn't matter what it is. In my opinion, it would actually send a much clearer and clearer message that there is no need for abuse in this area. There was thinking, and I'm not far from them either, so it's not enough for the employer to pay only that sentence for the violation of the article, it seems to me, 123 of this law, or it's old, now it's not important, but possibly to use it then, so that he has to pay all the obligations he has to the state. Here, I believe that this idea that's already been heard, which I've kind of pointed out that maybe the time has come, since the Law of Citizenship is old enough for us to maybe discuss all these issues, simply try some more dilemmas, or I'd dare say half-open or open questions to try to close them. Here, please, this explanation, with a note that the SDP club will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26721	Thank you. HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26722	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. As we all know, one of the basic principles and objectives of the European Union and of the Member States which are currently, in the future, respecting four fundamental freedoms: freedom of movement of goods, persons, capital and services. In this regard, the areas regulated by this law are located in the so-called The first pillar where Community law applies and it covers several negotiating chapters of the Croatian Pre-Accession Programme, primarily Chapter 3-Right of business creation and freedom to provide services, and Chapter 24. Justice, freedom and security. In any case, this law should also be reviewed in the context of others, I would say bound regulations that directly regulate matter, which is the Law on Asylum adopted by the Croatian Parliament in July 2007, and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of the State Border adopted by this House in December 2008. In addition, the basis of the already existing Foreign Law, which, as we heard from the proposing representatives, came into force on 1 January 2008, brought into force several regulations, implementing rules, several decisions by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In any case, the migration policy of the Republic of Croatia adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia should also be mentioned here and the fact that the Republic of Croatia is a signator of 24 agreements on the surrender and acceptance of persons. In 2008, the result of this coverage, the regulatory coverage of this area is a decline in trend, a trend in the general fall of illegal migration, particularly illegal crossings of the state border, and although not directly related to the Foreign Law, it should only be mentioned that this has contributed to a significant fall in the illegal crossings of the state border, which were recorded in 2007 by around 4 thousand, and in 2008, the illegal crossings of the Croatian state border were recorded. Since the amendments and additions of this law will complement the more quality of this area, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Law. Allow me a few words about the law itself. This law regulates the area of entry, residence and work of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia and has changed several times so far, all with the aim of harmonising with the legislation of the European Union or the best practices that exist in the Member States, and of course with the needs of the development of Croatian society, Croatian economy. The law applies not only to legal migration and regulation of the work and residence of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, but also to measures aimed at curbing illegal migration and helping victims of human trafficking. This is for Croatia as a transit country now located at the borders of the European Union and is about to take control of the external borders of the European Union following Croatia's accession to the Schengen regime, in this area one of the most important laws, of course with the Law on the Control of the State Border, which I also mentioned in the Asylum Act. The measures have produced exceptional results over the past few years so that they should be done at all levels, all authorities of the state administration that have their responsibilities in this area, constantly strengthening activities to ensure that these illegal measures that I have mentioned are as low as possible recorded at the border or in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. As regards the proposed amendments to the Foreign Law, it is prescribed, among other things, that carriers caught by police in the transport of illegal migrants are obliged to return them to their country of origin in their own cost. This provision will further affect the strengthening of border control, taking into account in particular our obligations that we will have to implement when we are crossing the external border of the European Union. More precisely, the concept of a carrier and the concept of a marriage is defined in order to remove any unequal interpretation of these concepts in advance. It is possible to submit a request for temporary stay in Croatia abroad and Croatian diplomatic representations with the exception of foreigners who are married to Croatian citizens and those working in Croatia on scientific projects. All foreigners who want to get a permanent stay in Croatia except knowledge of Croatian language and letters must also have a minimum knowledge of Croatian culture and social order, which will of course speed up their integration into Croatian society. It is proposed that the competent police station decide on requirements for work permit and temporary stay at the same time which significantly speeds up the process and facilitates the foreigner's regulation of his status. Foreigners who are married to a Croatian citizen and foreigners who come for scientific research and work can apply for the approval of the first temporary stay in the police department, or police station. It is proposed that the consent to obtain a business permit should be issued by the County Chamber of Commerce, which will gain more quality insight into the structure of the business carried out by the parties in the Republic of Croatia, but also significantly facilitate the identification of facts related to the performance of business activities. Also, this law extended the category of foreigners who could be granted temporary stay for the purpose of joining the family as a member of the foreign family on temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia without a time limit of two years. For example, a member of the foreign family working on the basis of an international contract by a foreigner on a temporary stay in the Republic, a foreigner on a temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia performing a religious service, a foreign correspondent accredited in the Republic of Croatia, and a foreigner performing key business in companies and foreigners approved by a business permit. More detailed provisions have also been developed that regulate the temporary stay of victims of human trafficking and participation in the aid and protection programme, making it clear that victims of human trafficking as one of the most terrible criminal activities in the world today should be given strong support. A category of foreigners who can be granted permanent stay before the end of a period of five years of temporary stay has been extended in case of foreigners who have stayed in the Republic of Croatia for ten years in temporary protection status and have three years authorised temporary stay, as well as foreigners returning to the Republic of Croatia on the basis of a programme of return and care of exiles, refugees and displaced persons. This proposal allows foreigners who have established a working relationship in foreign associations, foundations and foundations to issue work permits outside of annual quotas. The law regulates when it is possible to refuse to issue a work permit to the employer who is legally convicted of infringements in the field of work, health and pension insurance, a foreigner who violates the provisions relating to the entry, stay and work of foreigners and an employer or a foreigner if they have failed to comply with a monetary obligation or if the protection of measures has not been carried out. The conditions under which business permits may be granted to foreigners in such a way as to indicate that a business licence may be issued to the founder of a company or a foreigner who has a majority share of at least 51% and a craftsman in his own craft or one craftsman in the common craftsman. The previous consent for issuing a business permit instead of the competent state office for the economy is now the consent of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce through the County Chamber, which is due within 15 days as we consider it appropriate to forward our reasoned consent to the competent police department, or police station. Customers engaged in the free profession will be issued a business permit based on enrolment in the relevant register of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with specific regulations. A business licence may be issued to foreigners engaged in the free profession by means of enrolment in the relevant register of the Republic of Croatia. Provisions have also been added to which citizens of the European Union do not have to prove that their business has an impact on increasing economic activity in the Republic of Croatia, introduce new production processes, new equipment and modern technology, and encourage the creation of new jobs and employment of domestic labour in the Republic of Croatia. This is the achievement of the freedom of movement of capital goods spoken of by the State Secretary as a representative of the Government. It does not need to be specifically and further elaborated, and among other things, it is ultimately a spirit of the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The local authority of police administrations, i.e. police stations, is also specified to apply for a business permit to the headquarters of the company or crafts, i.e. according to the place of exercise of the free profession. In relation to the applicable law, categories of foreigners are proposed to work without a work permit, i.e. a business permit, given the duration of work 90, 60 or 30 days. In addition, there are extended categories of foreigners who can work for up to one year without work permits, i.e. foreign correspondents accredited in the Republic of Croatia, representatives and staff of religious communities, professors, lecturers who perform teaching at the invitation of Croatian higher universities, etc. A provision has been added to allow foreigners who had an approved temporary stay for the purpose of using real estate under the former Foreign Law to regulate temporary stay with a period of validity of up to one year, not just up to six months a year. In addition, a provision has been added for the approval of a temporary stay for the purpose of using real estate relating to the citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area which is prescribed that the same category of foreigners may regulate a temporary stay for the purpose of using real estate with a period of validity up to one year. The State Secretary, as a representative of the Government, has introduced us to a very interesting area, which is to regulate the entry of young-time foreigners into the Republic of Croatia now transferred to the territory of the Law on the Control of the State Border and we believe that this law of the child, the underage foreigners who come to the Republic of Croatia, is being sufficiently protected. Due to everything that has been said, the Croatian Democratic Community will support this law, because it believes that amendments to this law will make it even stronger, more precise and clearer for the status, regulation and conditions of the stay of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia. And I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26723	Thank you. One correction to the incorrect allegations, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26724	Here, a colleague said that these changes, in particular by amending Article 57. In this proposed article, as defined by marriage, the benefits will be in such a way that it will be seen as being removed from various interpretations. In the sense of this law, and there are no different interpretations, a police officer and police officer cannot interpret whether marriage exists or not. This can only be the court in court proceedings and cannot be part of the elements of the marriage that are animus, so it is better to live together or better to be together in any way, this determines the court. That's why I'm going to write the amendment, and that's not true because you said it, although it's true that it does, but it just isn't, so I'm already announcing the amendment, and of course the constitutional suit on this. So I believe that there will be a change in that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26725	What the MP quoted as correct in the bill is incorrect. ... And you say it's incorrect that it will be removed. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That he only had an animus, that there was no corpus. SDSS representative club, Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26726	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. I don't need 10 minutes. These proposed amendments to the Law on Foreigners are estimated to be more liberal on a population basis, which means that they determine a more liberal attitude towards foreigners who come to the Republic of Croatia, and we also assess that they are more practical about the various life situations involved in this event. That is the basic reason why the SDSS club will support this proposal. Although numerous propositions and in this law are actually an obstacle to what counterpart Roncevic said earlier, the free movement of people as one of the main human freedoms. Another thing I want to add here, it seems to me that in these exceptions it would be good to add that without a work permit, or business license, I can, therefore, get a stay if it's already being arranged here and the parties doing seasonal jobs in agriculture. We've heard a number of situations from the field that say that it should also be classified here as an exception, I'm not much of an expert on it, but it seems to me that if I call for practical life situations, and this would be worth intervening, and it would be worth installing this because it has in some way the same categorization as these other exceptions that you enter into the law. The third thing I want to comment on here is this proposal to establish or regulate a more favourable relationship with refugees who have this problem of staying. I respect that, and I know that there should be appropriate rules and that it can't go beyond what it will be, but my colleague Lucin here earlier today talked about a number of people who aren't citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but they've tied their life biography to the Republic of Croatia for decades, whether they've worked there, they've gotten a job internship, that's where they and their children went to school, that's where they acquired property, that's where they made friends and so on, so focused on life in the Republic of Croatia, then the war came and it ended all together and now they have, and you state secretaries, you know, big... from the status of a permanent stranger, and in the end they reach citizenship. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I repeat, I understand the proposition of the law that speaks of foreigners, but this life situation here has been given a discount and I see that it is a way to meet them, but here I am particularly talking about it because in a civil appearance or in considering individual cases when it is solved does not show sufficient sensitivity for the drama of these people. I repeat, in this place and this time, I admit that what is written here is a discount or a good proposition for that category, but I would like to ask that, in solving these individual cases, this drama is in mind and that it is sort of more quickly solved, solved with a feeling, a human feeling of higher rank, and that it simply comes out to people when it's clear what it's about. When all this, I say add up, we will support this law. Of course, I would like it to be, since it is about fundamental freedoms and since it is about sensitive issues for people to also show a strong sense of sensitivity in such cases. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26727	Thank you. HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26728	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I don't think we should repeat everything we've heard before. I can only say, perhaps in a few words, that we are all pleased with the fact that many proposals have been made in the previous debate. The law amending and supplementing this law, a proposal to amend and supplement this law that I have now in my second reading is incomparably better than what we had before and what is particularly important, you have now brought into line with European legislation, there you have probably noticed yourself so that they still had a series of objections to the first text. I think it's all settled now. We at the HNS club would still ask you to try to agree on about three amendments. We'll give them to you during the afternoon, so you don't have to write. I'll just take it out here where we think we still need to make some slight shifts. The first amendment is, we have a technical nature, and the second and third concerns students and young people who volunteer in Croatia and especially in the context of various European volunteering projects. So I'm going to beg you here. Look, the first amendment refers to the following. Namely, the Croatian legal system knows the expression of a person with disabilities and a person with special needs, so it is to assume that people with disabilities and persons with special needs and children also need the help of an authorised proxies. It could be a parent or a guardian. For this reason, we suggest that in Article 12, which is added in Article 48, paragraphs 4, 5 and 6, paragraph 3 is now the first paragraph of the sixth indent. We propose to delete the word "invalid" and add the words "child, person with disabilities or special needs". I'll give you this text and you'll see that that part of the alignment with the legal system, or the terms that we use in other laws, should be done. Furthermore, the second amendment concerns civil society associations that organise international work and education camps and similar programmes involving volunteers from abroad. For the work of this type, no fees are paid but accommodation and nutrition are provided, as well as special programs for meeting Croatian culture and tradition. Such programmes generally last from 10 to 90 days, so we suggest that Article 44, which amends Article 139 in paragraph 1, adds point 9 which reads: "students who, in the organisation of Croatian associations or institutions, come to volunteer work in work camps and similar work programmes". It's like another addition behind point 8, that would be point 9. And finally our third proposal is next. In particular, the European Commission supports and implements specific volunteer exchange programmes. The most famous in which EU member states and non-member countries participate, including Croatia, is the European Voluntary Service programme under the Youth in Action programme. The person who decides to participate as a European volunteer chooses the project and activities according to its capabilities and abilities. This "European Voluntary Service" is not a tourist visit, so it is not a tourist visit to a country at the expense of the European Commission. A person who decides to become a European volunteer appears as part of a programme at a volunteer post within the country where he will spend a certain period and is tasked with participating in the implementation of projects contributing to the specific local community. They have the right to participate young people between 18 and 30 years of age, and the programme itself lasts depending on the project between 2 and 12 months. The project itself includes all costs of accommodation, nutrition, transportation and allowance of volunteers. For this reason, we propose that Articles 139a and 139b be added in Article 45 to which Articles 139a and 139b are added. In Article 139b(1), point 9 adds another point, now point 10, which would read: "youths performing civil society organisations in the framework of the international exchange programme and the cooperation of volunteers of the European Union". Here therefore, these are our three I would say a smaller requirement, but surely will significantly improve the text and clearly involve young people. It seems to us that you've dropped these European projects that I've just been talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26729	Thank you. HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26730	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here in the first wave when a man looks at and lists this Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Law, then it would be said that it is very precise, very thorough and that it went from every item to item and put forward this final bill which is really very precise. I personally don't understand why this law isn't wearing an E. tag, it's just P.Z. So, although in other countries and countries of the European Union, we slowly go depending on Slovenians 'el, we adopt laws that bear a name, or mark P.Z.E. Therefore, it might be easier for us to apply the items set out in these European laws to our legislation that we do not have to change them again for some time when it is current, our entry into the European Union, if there are discrepancies between the provisions of this final bill and these European laws. I personally may not know enough about this issue in European legislation, but here I am saying because of this possible possibility of discrepancies that, after some time, we must put this topic on the agenda again. However, I didn't want to talk about it first of all, but that in the last year, on several occasions we discussed here for this pay phone and the kidnapping assembly as it was written in the public media, it was in electronic notice that it would take import to say so figuratively, imports of labour from nearby or further countries in our area. The figures of 10 thousand, 20 thousand etc. were discussed, and you see that you are state secretaries and you are here and since you are well aware of the problem my predecessor Ivan Bagarić spoke about, that we have about 20 thousand, precisely about 20 thousand requests for Croatian citizenship, people of different profiles, education, various professional profiles that are very slow with a lot of rigorous to say about exercising the right to citizenship, so I would say medically on the hood, slowly get those citizenships. Which, in my opinion, would be some improvement in the work of those who decide a single volunteer, a well-meaning in this, to help import labour force be significantly less. Especially from surrounding countries. In fact, when I say so, then we must bear in mind the constitutional provision, that Croatia is the state of all Croatians and clearly Croatian citizens. If Croatia is the state of all Croats, then it is also the Croatian state and the Croatian state that live outside it. In fact, we talk very often here about having another entire evicted Croatia. So, when we talk. Later, you will have the correction of the incorrect allegations, Mrs. Anticevic, of the law. When we talk about it, we sometimes boast that we have almost the same number of Croats outside Croatia as in Croatia. Therefore, I think that when it comes to work permits, Croats outside Croatia do not have to have or insist on Croatian citizenship sometimes, but in order to facilitate their work, so that they can obtain a work permit more easily than others. That's what we're talking about. So it's not entirely my intention that I originally said that these people know mostly both language and culture and all that is required in the issue of work permits, that they have the ease of obtaining work permits in the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore an interest of the Republic of Croatia to make it easier to enter and hire members of the Croatian people who want to come and work for a certain period of time or to study in the Republic of Croatia. In any case, our employers will welcome this, too, because I say they know the language, especially the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so it is easier to get a work permit. Many of them who would work to say for a certain time in Croatia also have a number of relatives in the Republic of Croatia, and then it is easier and have a place of residence or residence. That is why I will personally submit an amendment in this sense that will be here soon with the promoter. When referred to in Article 70(1) in connection with potential victims, the identification of victims carried out by the ministry, when it comes to the victim of a minor, the ministry is obliged to cooperate with the ministry responsible for social care and may cooperate with civil society organisations. The civil society organisation has an association of over tens of thousands. There is a certain competition among civil society associations. It is neither specified nor defined with which associations the ministry will cooperate in identifying the victims of minors. Furthermore, Article 95 of the Old Law states that protection is being addressed because of the belonging of a special social group and that is not defined by specific social groups. I would not like to specify direct copies or examples but is not defined, special social groups. Furthermore, when it comes to requirements for the issue of work permits, it is said in Article 121 that this is the permit issued by the Ministry of the Interior. The work permit is completely unsatisfactory to issue the Ministry of the Interior and not the ministry responsible for the work. Business or work permit as far as I know that, therefore, the need for a number and type of work permits should be cared for or cared for by the Ministry of Labour and not by the Ministry of the Interior. Furthermore, I also have a comment on another Article 139 which discusses the stay of representatives of religious communities for 30 days to carry out activities that are exclusively related to religious service, which can therefore remain without a work permit or business permit and work in the Republic of Croatia, so if they do not stay for more than 30 days a year. We know that according to the definition, the religious community represents at least 500 members. Does this mean that even representatives of smokers will also be able to stay from other countries here in Lica for the same month in Wigwam without a work permit and without any permission from the Ministry of the Interior? But let's put this joke aside. First of all, I appeal to the experience of other countries, namely regarding the issue of work permits and the achievement of citizenship, as regulated by some other countries in the world and in Europe. It can also be seen in Germany, Israel even more so that I would like to highlight this problem, to potential for Croatians, so Croats who are outside the country and that they do not fall under all the basics until they have achieved Croatian citizenship according to all the provisions of this new proposed or final bill rather than have certain opportunities for faster obtaining work permits in the Republic of Croatia because there are both elements in knowledge of language and in knowledge of culture and in relation to family ties in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26731	Thank you. An individual debate. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26732	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As a whole, this bill of law is good. In fact, it's hard to be a stranger, the Croats, and otherwise the citizens of these political areas know well. Unfortunately, it took a long time to see us just disappear. The World Health Organization predicts in 50 years, now and less when it is predicted, so 40 and something that will simply halve the number of inhabitants in Croatia and these are amazing results. Of course, there's a way out of that phobia and fear of strangers. We realized that we needed foreigners, even for our own sake. But that's usually good, because like our people, because of different opportunities, that's the trouble they went abroad, there's different and opportunities, and there's no chance of bringing strangers into our country. Some more liberalisation in terms of when it was seen that even the existing law was an obstacle for foreigners to come to our country, to do certain jobs, to live with the family, so it is corrected. And that's certainly good. However, here is the occasion to note that we really should see what is happening that people have long concluded in Croatia marriage, that they have already grown children with our citizen or with our citizen and that they are foreigners. There are several examples and Macedonians, perhaps it is safe and familiar to you, simply if and there is an administrative barrier that must not happen. If they're already here 40-ac, 30-ac, 40-year-olds, maybe more. And that they don't have citizenship. Their spouse has citizenship, their children have and he's a stranger in his own family. It just can't be, there's no barrier that can take such a condition. Of course, these people worked here, too, and now they're retired. This needs to be seen, several citizens have spoken to parliamentary deputies. However, I am particularly drawing attention to this provision of Article 16 which is simply inconceivable to our legal order. First of all, Croatia is a much more advanced country in status issues, and it has always been more than almost any country. A few years ago, 5, 6 years ago when the world international seminar on status issues was declared the best country in Croatia. It's a little bit of a know-it-all. Croatia has said and preceded this as part of the former state, it has continued to do so. Now it can't happen to exist to the provision of an article on the 16th and not an existing 57th that speaks of the dowry, please. The doraz in Croatia in these rooms 45 has been abolished as a serious shame for a woman, that a woman is simply being sold. The customs, they cannot, whoever wants to do these practices, do them, but there is no place for them in the law. Therefore, everyone who comes to Croatia has no excuse for dowry. Doraz simply disappeared from our legal order. And now he can't go around with strangers entering our country. Those who come here must learn the order of the house that rules here, more so when it is more advanced than from the country in which they come. It can't be, it's a grave shame for our legal order and how this has been squandered that it's left and yet it's still under way. Just to visit, therefore, but when the motionary intervenes in this provision, here I propose it by amendment, and now verbally in my speech to delete this amendment. He just absolutely said that he's on the side of our legal order, that marriage is a community of the lives of a man and a woman, that he's regulated by family law, that there's no law that can mess with such relationships and meddle. This is not done by any bill nor by it, nor by this law. The existence or absence of marriage, the reason for the futility of marriage. There is one reason for nothing if marriage mates have concluded in advance knowing that they will not, that there are no communities among them, it is very difficult to prove before the court but it is precisely and in law regulated who can do so in Article 25. Family law has been decided who can intervene in this way. It can only be one of the spouses, a person with legal interest, it has to prove to the court, the welfare center, a police officer is not, he can possibly inform the welfare center, if he has such knowledge. But it's all done under the Family Law, not by this law. And who is this, please, a police officer who will take over the role of the court. So we had a few situations that we even inherited from the earlier legal order where the centres instead of courts were doing some of the jobs for which the European and our Constitutional Court also stood at the point of view that it could only be in the domain of the court. And these jobs have never been to the police, they're not police business. Better yet, the police are snooping around the families. I'm not saying they're not good intentions, but that can't happen. Here, I especially appeal. And let’s see how rigid and outdated this provision of Article 57 also speaks about it, and the existing norm that needs to be changed or thrown out, and then it says: “The circumstances that can indicate that marriage is beneficial are: marriage mates do not maintain a marriage union."so it's against marriage law. Because the marriage law says that marriage mates will agree where they will live and where they will live, if they have agreed. ... And you let go of your consumption, leave it for sacraments, not for civil marriage. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And speaking of the subject, then it's very interesting, after five years, No, no, I can answer that, and I'd be happy to, that there are greats, of course, only greats who haven't eaten for five years, as you say, but they're just greats, are they able to look for zeroness in certain places, and otherwise I agree with you, the one who's somewhere, that should also consider, perhaps already on this occasion, and I believe that you'll all be interested in this topic, but even though it's the theme of family, where you've concluded marriage, there is also looking for an annulment and divorce of possibly the table and bed. [[Intruder: You have lost your text.]] By the way, the civil marriage was unusual, so the church marriage only ends, but the color of divorces did not reduce anything. And then this is how this big pompous marriage is done, and that's what we do next to the alleys of some kind, to the court or the matrimonials, that is, first of all, at the social care center, and then at the court, a secret divorce. It doesn't seem like much, but it looks like our two-faced morale, it certainly does, but it needs to be revealed, and it needs to be cleared up, a more comfortable life, it's going to be easier for all of us, I'm saying this out of the best intentions. Now, marriage mates don't speak a language they both understand. These are not elements of whether marriage exists or not. Well, we have the perfect marriages for both the murky and the deaf. I know a few people, both spouses are deaf, their children are perfectly healthy, and by you, that would be a suspicious marriage. Then onward, for marriage, you say they haven't met if they haven't met before. And do you know how many marriages are made so far away in America, in South America, in Dalmatia, these were common marriages. And they were even successful, but let's let it go now. So let's let a man and a woman decide, but if they really manipulate the government to draw and some certain rights, it can all be so, but then there's a court, for that there are authorized persons. Here, I believe you will consider this, that this provision will disappear so as not to throw yourself out to the executioner... by the Constitutional Court, because the Constitutional Court, such as with a large march and barbecue, solves SDP's lawsuits, and soon, also publicly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26733	Thank you very much. Consider, in particular, these deaths around consumption. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26734	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues [[I apologize.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26735	My colleague Miljenko Doric has a replica. I'm in this grill.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26736	I volunteered for the replica of my colleague Anticevic for several reasons. First of all, I want to support her in her attempt to point out the complexity of this matter and the connection of this law to the Family Law, the Labour Act, with a demographic policy that we should clearly at times more complex and more comprehensively analyze, etc. I am reacting because here I have only heard half an hour of different thesis, among other things, that if we lower the criteria and give a hand and a drop of citizenship to Croats in the world that we will address the issue of labour shortages, etc. I don't agree with that at all. It's just another problem we need to talk about. But colleagues and colleagues, here, take the Czech Republic. As early as 10, 12 years ago, the Czech Republic had 100,000 foreigners working in progress, I would say, an independent state that started then after the separation with Slovakia. And clearly, these 100,000 are already more than 100,000 people working today, but it was known by which criteria these people were given work permits, what the Czech Republic needed, etc. Therefore, much more systematic analysis of the real needs of the country has occurred, what I keep stressing. When it comes to foreigners, we always forget one of the strongest weapons in this area, which is the scholarship of young people. We educate them in Croatia, teach our language, adapt to our culture, to ourselves and do so to all the countries on this planet, and then offer these young people citizenship, assimilate them. It's rough and hard to talk about sometimes, but it's a reality and we never use that "arm" that I think is the most efficient, painless, most effective. So, with all these laws to be sure to react to, which should be connected as a whole, I think that we must once try to start a debate in the broadest context on this subject, because only then will we have real shifts in demographic policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26737	Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26738	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I will begin my debate on this bill with a quote from an old book in which the author wrote that "new ideas are always daughters of the past, mothers of the future, but also slaves of time". In the last term of 2007 when this law was on the agenda, the MP in the Croatian Parliament at the time, Nikola Vuljanic tried hard to convince the party through the amendment to approve a permanent stay, but also in the Law on Citizenship there must be a provision that they must know the Croatian language, the Latin letter and the Croatian culture and social order. At that time, his proposal was declared xenophobic in the assembly. Now, in the Government's proposal, Article 27, which refers to Article 83, states that foreigners who want to stay permanently in the Republic of Croatia, among other things, must know the Croatian language, the Latin letter and the Croatian culture and social order, which I think is an extremely good thing for Croatia to finally put such a provision into its law, because it has long been established by other countries. And for that I thank you on behalf of my colleague Vuljanić. There, it was supposed to be a certain time. He suggested some things too soon. And what I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary of State to help me understand better, and if I'm right, he'll probably accept the need for one more sentence in the bill. In particular, the temporary stay is regulated in Article 46, which may take up to one year, especially if the request for a temporary stay approved up to one year applies to Article 51(2), so the stranger in Croatia wants to work. In order to obtain the conditions for the submission of a permanent residence authorisation application, it shall have at least five years of approved temporary stay. That's article 78, and that's all right. We now come to Article 83, which regulates the conditions under which, which is Article 27 of the amendment, which is why the conditions of that stranger should be met in order to obtain a permit for a foreign stay. Well, among other things, he must know Croatian, he must read Latin, Croatian culture and social order. That's good. He says he has to have a secure apartment, and that's good. But I haven't found a provision that a stranger proves a secure residence, so what document is valid for the police to be believed to have a secure residence. Hotel, rental, contract, so anything. Perhaps it would be good to specify what evidence of a secure apartment is sufficient to issue a permanent residence permit. In addition, newspapers are introduced that people over the age of 60, if they are not in a working relationship, do not have to take the test from the knowledge of Croatian language, the Latin letter. Why 60? The general pension condition in Croatia is 65. If they're over 60 and if they're not in a working relationship. If this remains "and are not working relationship" then we should adapt it to the general pension conditions in Croatia. He's 65, not 60. So, I suggest that the deadline here is 65 years, not 60 years. And I won't write the amendment. I assume Mr. Katic and the secretary of state understood why I'm proposing this. But now there's one problem further. The issue of work permits shall be subject to Article 114. For the issue of work permits and temporary stay, foreigners do not need to know Croatian language, they do not have to read Latin, they do not have to know Croatian culture or social order, social order. And tell me whether it is important for someone who, therefore, is talking about the persons of foreigners who have requested permission to stay in Croatia under Article 51(2) with the intention to work in Croatia. Does it matter that someone who comes to Croatia knows the Croatian language at least the basics as this law requires. Is it important that a foreigner who comes to work in Croatia can read Latina and knows the basics of culture and social order. I think so. Now we have one absurd that from the one who has been in Croatia for five years and five times received permission for temporary stay we send for the test, the one who first comes with the intention to work no. For example, if there is a provision in any law that employers must write to foreigners a labor contract in their native language or write in Croatian. And in order to work and get a work permit in Croatia, he has to sign a contract on work in Croatian, and he doesn't have to know Croatian, he doesn't even have to read Latin. Although under European rules, this is not necessarily the largest number of members of the European Union, they have introduced a provision for foreigners who come solely because of the work of Article 51(2) and remain longer than 6 months, they must fulfil the conditions laid down in Article 83. So to know the language, the letter, the basics of culture and social order. It is precisely to be less exposed to abuses and misunderstandings. An example of another. What about work protection? A stranger who can work in Croatia for up to five years without being able to read, Latin and know the basics of culture. He cannot even read a warning sign on the site, since he knows neither Latin nor Croatian. And not to mention, I will remind you that the largest number of foreigners receiving a work permit or a business license comes from Bosnia and Herzegovina. I suppose everyone knows the Latin and the Croatian understands, but there's China in second place. The second number of work permits issued in Croatia is China. Behind that is the Czech Republic, Austria, Italy, Serbia, Macedonia, Slovenia, Germany and Russia. So, at least half of the countries I've read to you, and some even basically don't have a Latin but some other letter, and I can't write an amendment for this because they don't, because these amendments don't change articles that would allow you to write the amendment. And I suggest that you include this good solution in Article 83, and 27, of the amendment, and provide for the approval of a temporary stay if it is longer than six months, and pursuant to Article 51(2), so point 2., with the intention of working in Croatia, it would not affect as much as some think it would prevent foreign professors from giving lectures, doctors from performing operations or experts of other profiles because, according to Article 139, such profiles would not affect foreigners, experts, artists, masters, doctors do not need work permits. Therefore, they are a special category of articles that are now even expanded by these amendments if I am not mistaken in this Article 139. Therefore, this would not prevent one particular elite or part of professions that can significantly contribute to development and progress, all the progress of Croatia, because they are neither intended for work nor business licenses nor would affect cultural exchange, European integration, youth cooperation, the work of students, experts and all that some fear. This proposal and request has been established, I believe, based on current experience. If you don't believe me, ask the Labour Inspector for information on the injured foreign workers on construction sites, factories and craftsmen. Because what was that about? So, we have situations, we have experience, and we know that would be good, so I only suggest one sentence, one item is enough to fit it in. For the purposes of Article 51(2), a temporary stay of more than 6 months shall comply with these conditions referred to in Article 83. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26739	Thank you. 16,07 minutes, time for the 10-minute hearing to be filed. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26740	Honorable Vice President, ministry representatives, MPs. In accordance with the Act on Foreigners, the Government of the Republic of Croatia lays down the annual work permit quota on the proposal of the Croatian Employment Service, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce and the Social Partners on the Economic and Social Council, and normally takes account of the situation and needs of the labour market. But the fact is that in recent years more and more foreigners have been employed on the domestic labour market. So in 2005, 2428 work permits were issued, in 2008, 10242 work permits were issued which is more than 4 times higher compared to these few years. And it wouldn't be so worrying if it wasn't worrying data that the growing and growing number of unemployed in the Croatian Employment Service records. How the Croatian Employment Institute, as I said, participates in proposing an annual quota of work permits for foreigners, as well as records of deficiting interests in certain economic activities in Croatia, I think that this institution should take far more responsibility and have a greater capacity to pay more attention to co-financing with existing co-financing of the co-financing and education of deficits. At that time, the number of unemployed in the register of the Croatian Employment Service would certainly be reduced and more and more work permits for the employment of foreigners should not be issued year after year. In Croatia, for example, the Croatian Employment Institute has been monitoring and recording for a number of years that every year the most working permits for foreign employment have been issued in the activities of construction, so that since 2004, around 8,856 permits for work for foreigners, shipbuilding from 2004 to now 3,801 permits have been issued, in tourism from 2004 to today, 1,738 work permits and so on, not to mention other activities. It means that throughout all these years, in cooperation with employers, targeted investment was made in education programmes through retraining, retraining for these activities that are deficiting, today the employment office would have less jobless around 14 395 for these 3 activities alone. This is why I stress because since 2002, when the Law on Employment Intermediation and Rights has been lifted during unemployment, the obligation for employers to publish their job vacancies to the Croatian Employment Service is unfortunately not fully reviewed in relation to the needs of the labour market. Unfortunately, information is also lost, which is often an indication of the image of the employer, especially of those employers who have frequented the fluctuation of workers, especially here I think of entrepreneurs in catering and trade. I therefore appeal that this 2002 error should be corrected, and that I should appeal to the Ministry of Employment to provide information on the name of the employer from the country where the worker comes from so that they can monitor these deficits and other migration features, because it is obviously one problem that since 2002 they do not have enough information from the Ministry of Interior related to which the worker is coming from and which the employers are looking for foreign labour because I say, this obligation has been lifted by the employer's obligation, and I think it would be a good thing that somehow this co-operation with the Ministry of the Interior would be better, that they would receive such a record and that they have it on record. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26741	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26742	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the motionary. Just a few sentences that I would actually try to update through this debate through some of the comments we had and through the discussion on different committees. First of all, I would like to ask the Proposer once again to respect the amendment of the Committee on Gender Equality which is obvious, I hope, by an unintended error of Article 22, to provide for certain amendments in Article 70, and that Article 70 speaks about who determines and identifies victims of human trafficking, when the status of the victim is lost, but also what is very important, it sets out and includes a programme of assistance and protection, so it says it includes health and psychosocial protection, safe accommodation, translation and interpretation services, legal assistance and a safe return to the country of origin. As currently foreseen by these amendments and additions, this item would practically change completely, i.e. delete. It is obvious that the amendment of the Committee requires that this paragraph 3 of the existing article of 70 remains to know exactly what is going on in the victim’s aid program. Furthermore, on several committees we also discussed the demands and remarks of the Ombudsman for children who warned about the problem of entering and leaving minors from the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, in Article 1 of these Proposals to amend and supplement the Law on Foreigners, Article 8 is proposed, and this Article 8 reads: "A minor stranger who enters or exits the Republic of Croatia without the escort of a legal representative must have the approved consent of a legal representative." It has been explained that this erasure is because this article has been kind of transferred to the State Border Control Act, but I have looked a little bit at what it looks like now, it is now Article 32. The Law on the Control of State Borders and the killing is one sentence that says in this whole article that when carrying out border control, special attention is paid to minors, whether they travel on an escort or without a legal representative's escort. Personally, I tend to maintain the provision of Article 8, but in the form proposed by the Ombudsman for children, so even something, not something but strengthened and sharpened when it comes to minors who say that during the course of border control, attention must be paid to minors, whether they are accompanied or not. In addition, a minor who enters or exits the Republic of Croatia without the escort of a legal representative must have a certified consent of a legal representative and, if the minor referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article travels within the framework of school trips, excursions, sports or art associations, or under other organised arrangements for entry or exit from the Republic of Croatia, the travel organizer must have the prior authority of the parents, i.e. the legal representative of the child whose travel organiser is permitted by the organisation of the travel of minors abroad. I personally believe that this formulation would be much better and that it should actually, regardless of this Law on State Border Control, be left in the Foreign Law. I'm gonna take this opportunity to point out something else, I guess it's the same thing as some law. I don't know if you've met with this, but minors can travel neatly outside Croatia to get out of Croatia without the authority of parents or legal counsel, guardians, for example, for shopping trips. The agencies organise, usually during the weekend shopping trips all day to neighbouring countries, either in Slovenia, Hungary or Austria. And I met with my 16-year-old daughter saying I would go shopping with my friends. How are you gonna go shopping? I guess someone needs to give you power of attorney. No, everything's fine. It's organized by the agency, without any parent's signature. The kid just went out to buy a nice ticket and went out shopping. So that's something I don't know if it's a question of this law, whether it's a question of some other law, so I'm warning myself about minors. And what I would also like to especially emphasise, but also support. We also discussed on the Committee on Shell Rights, it seems to me, on the Committee on Labour, the observations of the unions that were brought to certain legal, or amendments to the Foreign Law. It is therefore primarily related to the part where it is intended or not to be issued, the issue of a work permit to employers who violate labour regulations and health and pension insurance regulations. In fact, it remains completely unclear to me why Article 40 of this proposal of the law is amended in Article 123 of the current speaking one. In fact, Article 123 of the existing law states that a work permit will not be issued if the employer violates the rules on labour, health and pension insurance or if the stranger violates the provisions of this law relating to the entry, stay and work of foreigners. The proposed changes now say the police station may refuse to issue a work permit to the employer who violates labour regulations and on health and pension insurance. So far, if the employer had violated the rules on work, health and pension insurance, it was explicitly stated that no work permit would be issued. It is now said that a work permit can be refused. So we're actually getting much more flexible when it comes to it. In fact, the proposal for the current amendments and the addition of the laws also proposes that if, and in fact, everything is linked to Article 58 which speaks of the current article and the amendment of Article 199 as it turns out this way. Therefore, the employer is first told that he will be granted a temporary closing measure, or a ban on working for 30 days, and then it is said, if within 2 days he pays an amount of 30 thousand kuna, it will no longer be worth it. Namely, I agree with the dilemma that our unions have. Does that mean okay? You can break the Labour Act, you can unsettled health, health and pension insurance obligations, you can pay 30 thousand kuna and you'll still get a work permit. This means, then, that the employer may eventually renegotiate regulations so the Labour and Pension and Health Insurance Act, but it is enough that you each pay 30 thousand kuna and you will still get a work permit. So, please and I would like to warn you, especially this applies to Article 40, where I now claim that in a much more flexible way, employers who violate the Labour Act have been treated, because so far it has been explicitly and strictly said that no work permit will be issued, and now it is said that it can be refused, because there is enough to pay 30 thousand kuna. And the fact that someone may not have made a contribution from retirement and health insurance for months is obviously less important. And, of course, it remains completely unclear who and how and how police officers or offices will issue or will not issue permits, in what way and how they will have information on whether or not an employer has violated labour regulations. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26743	Thank you. Mr. Representative Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26744	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. I will support the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Law, because I believe that a better quality way of solving the conditions of entry, movement and residence and work of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia. The fact is that various shortcomings have been observed in the application of the existing Foreign Law and that the intention through these amendments to the law is to correct the shortcomings. Croatia as a tourist country, a country where millions of foreigners live annually, including a transit country in traffic terms, but also a country where more and more foreigners are temporarily working, must have quality regulations that will regulate their stay in the Republic of Croatia, but of course the issue of employment. This bill therefore introduces or brings a whole series of improvements from which I would point out, and this is certainly a simplification of the procedure for obtaining a temporary stay and temporary work permit for certain categories of foreigners who are often and disabled in Croatia such as not knowing scientists, professors, lecturers, and at the end of the line of students and they will be able to resolve this issue of stay and work in Croatia on the basis of a new proposal much simpler. The entry and exit of minors into the Republic of Croatia is more regulated and regulated, which was often problematic in the tourist season because of the very laws. More quality is solved and temporary stay for the purpose of joining the family as a member of the foreigner's family on temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia. The law also provides for categories of foreigners who can stay and work for a period of time without work or business permits. So, the whole series of improvements I would say after certain illogicalities have been observed in the existing law and I believe that this new proposal will therefore regulate the issue of foreign living and working in the Republic of Croatia in a better and better way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26745	Thank you. And the final secretary of state, Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26746	Thank you very much. Mr. President. I'd say at the beginning that the situation is complex. The law is mostly supported but there were a lot of questions and open thinking. I'll try to maybe answer briefly to what I can give answers and what might require a little more serious analysis or consulting other laws we'll deal with after this debate is over. I'll start with what Mrs. Sobol asked questions about Articles 123 and 199. We went on purpose to change Article 123 in terms of easing that sanction because we had one case, I will tell you specifically. It was the shipyards. Shipyards have a lot of co-operatives, mostly foreign workers, since there are not enough welders, installers, and some of these deficiting professions. We had a case where a shipbuilding cooperative hired about 600 foreigners. In inspection, two workers who were employed on that day had no regulated status of foreigners and work permits and therefore had to be questioned by the entire company with all those 600 employees and we had the intervention of the shipbuilding union that the company was not sanctioned because of the fact that the work and jobs of Croatian workers had come as well as the question of deadlines for the delivery of ships. It's a particular case that led us to go with this kind of formulation because it really has different and weird situations in practice. And we have even here, I said I will not say which union but interventions of domestic trade unions not to punish rigorous foreigners because they will be questioned then deadlines carried out by the obligation to deliver and thus come into question the jobs of Croatian citizens. Here, that was one of the motives. This Article 199 of these transitional provisions, which discusses sanctions, also includes the State Inspectorate. So, the State Inspectorate has such a possibility that if each foreign employer pays 30 thousand kuna fines that they will not close that workshop or employer. We will still consider this, but we believe that in some of these situations it would really not be a good idea to apply the rules if, as a result, domestic jobs and domestic companies were to be questioned. And this is, in any case, the goal of what Mr. Kunst said is that this law but not only does it carry out one consistent policy of hiring those missing persons in Croatia. Nor should we be too liberal to allow anyone to enter Croatia but not to be defended by domestic employers so that they can carry out their projects when necessary and with foreign workers. And there was also talk about that we should review and consider the Law on Citizenship and the Law on Asylum, and it will surely have to do so because the Law on Citizenship presents problems for us, and that is also the same thing that Gajic's representative said some specific cases and examples, and we really have a lot of problems about the application of individual institutions and the Law on Citizenship as the citizenship of emigrants, so the question is, who is the emigrant, whether these are overseas countries, whether they are from some other European countries. I'm saying, mostly that's really one complex problem. In all this, we should be one of the key documents and strategies of migration policy practically which should be the main document which should then be imported by the Law on Citizenship and the Law on Asylum, and the Law on Foreigners, since Croatia definitely needs to start leading a consistent long-term, migration policy because it is clear to all of us that every year we have a growing demographic deficit, that more and more people are dying than they are born. And that is why this document, the Migration Policy Strategy, will certainly be one of the important fundamental documents. And these laws, and between them and this Foreign Law, will certainly be one of the implementing rules that we will have to come up with and ensure that good long-term and sustainable migration policies are implemented. What the same representative Grubisic asked about Croatians who do not have Croatian citizenship, it was the same observation from the Household Committee. We had previously in the Law on the Employment of Foreigners a provision where it is said that Croats who do not have Croatian citizenship can work without a work permit. In practice, however, we do have cases that the Constitutional Court has annulled some of the ICJ's solutions on refusing to accept citizenship because we asked the party to prove that he is a member of the Croatian people. There have been several rulings of the Constitutional Court where it has been said that the sense of belonging to a particular people is subjective and that we have no right to seek documents, evidence of that belonging, so we really face different problems. It is certainly our same interest and aim to change this Law on Citizenship and the Law on Asylum in a way that it is in accordance with the Constitution, to be in line with the European acquis, not to let solutions fall, not to lose disputes either constitutionally or administratively, but to actually implement one designed, good policy on migration and regulation of foreign nationals in the Republic of Croatia primarily for the benefit of all of us in those areas where we lack domestic labour. What Mr Doric said, unfortunately, we will have to amend this law again because, after we have referred it to the European Union procedure, it has adopted new directives that we will have to implement again in this law, and so we have agreed with the European Commission since this law has adopted a large majority of the remarks that were based before the adoption of these new directives. In any case, Europe has the same issue of migration, movement, residence and work of foreigners on a daily basis, since this issue is one of the very important issues for the development and survival of all EU member states, so we are aware of the sensitivity of this. And finally, I say one part of these remarks that you have made, in particular these few amendments, I think we will adopt it, and these questions concerning the definition of marriage, which concerns some other laws, we will certainly check how it is regulated in other laws that we propose in the law really the most qualitative solutions that will be in line with other laws that apply in the Republic of Croatia. And I hope that this law here, along with the amendments that are proposed here and some of our interventions in terms of government amendments, will propose in the final vote a good law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26747	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We are going to vote on certain points, discussed agenda points. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 138 The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted amendments. In accordance with Article 166. Rules of Procedure. The amendments tabled must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Who's in favour of having a debate on the government's amendments? So who's okay with us having this discussion? Please, who's up for it? Thank you. Do you mind? Thank you. There isn't. So we accepted the amendment debate. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Amendment one to Article 65
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26749	The government therefore proposes amendment one to Article 65, which reads: "The Minister responsible for Home Affairs will lay down rules on the expulsion and banning of the entry and residence of residents, the way in which the short-term stay of foreigners is reported by electronic means, the way in which official checks are carried out. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Recital: this amendment resolves the objection of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee to laying down rules on how to carry out these official checks, as proposed by the provision of paragraph 2 of this Article, is not in accordance with Article 17. The Law on the System of State Administration, where it is prescribed that the Ministers and Directors of State Administrations shall adopt regulations, orders and guidance for the implementation of laws and regulations. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The current paragraph 3 shall become paragraph 2 and shall be nomotechnically arranged.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26750	Okay. Thank you. I'm opening a debate on an amendment to a government. Any interest? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I am putting this amendment one to article 65 on the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. One government amendment was accepted by most votes. 102 votes for and 2 abstentions. We move on to the second amendment of the Government to Article 67.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26751	The amendment reads: "In Article 67(2), number 30 is replaced by number 15 and paragraph 3 is deleted." Reason: this amendment shortens the time limit for the submission of documents relating to... issue, consent for the issue of business permits between competent offices, state administration, competent county chambers of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. This will speed up the time limit for the start of granting consent for the issue of the business authorisation referred to in Article 41(2) and Article 42(2). Foreign law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26752	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the second amendment to the government. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am putting this amendment two to article 67 on the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that Prime Minister number two's amendment has been accepted by most votes. 103 votes for and 2 abstentions. We move to the amendment of the third Government to Article 70.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26753	The amendment three reads, "In Article 70, the 'thirty' is replaced by the words 'eighth'." The proposed provision reduces the period until the entry into force of this law from 30 to 8 days from the day of its publication in the "National Journal".
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26754	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the Third Amendment of the Government. I'm closing the debate. I am putting this amendment of the Government to article 70 on the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that the amendment of the third government has been accepted by most votes. 102 votes for and 3 abstentions. Thank you. Oh, yeah, you've got to make a statement about the other amendments. You've been sent to the bench to review the other amendments. I ask that the Government's representative plead. First Amendment of the Representatives Gordana Sobol and Milanka Opačić to Article 1. Final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26755	The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, the treatment of minors when crossing the state border is already prescribed in Article 21. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Control of the State Border, which reads: "In the course of border control, special attention shall be paid to minors, whether accompanied or accompanied by a legal representative". This provision is fully in line with the provision of Appendix 7 to point 6. Regulation No 562/2006 of the European Commission. The European Parliament and the Council of 15 March 2006 on shengen border code, which is under way to develop a regulation on the MUP on how to monitor the state border, which will further elaborate on the protection of minors crossing the state border without parental escorts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26756	Thank you. Mrs. Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26757	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, that this issue of minors' problems and their crossing the border has been resolved by your understanding through the Borders Act, however, the exercise of border control, but this amendment has in some way wanted to warn me and my colleague Opačić of what she has warned and the Ombudsman for children, because compared to the solutions that have been so far, so you have read them. One sentence speaks of how control is carried out, so special attention is given to minors when carrying out border control, whether they are accompanied or accompanied by a legal representative. We believe that what has so far been written in the Foreign Law, that it should remain, because he had another one besides this item. This is that "a minor who enters or exits from the Republic of Croatia without the escort of a legal representative must have the approved consent of a legal representative, and if the minor in paragraph 2 of this article travels in the context of school trips, excursions, sports or art associations or other organised arrangements, the travel organiser must have the prior authority of parents, i.e. the legal representative of the child" etc. So we believe that as we have suggested, so that Article 8 is not deleted. Foreign law, a much better way to keep records and care for minors. Here, since it's not accepted, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26758	I'm putting this amendment of Mrs. Sobol and Mrs. Opacic on a vote the government doesn't normally accept. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 2. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, to Article 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26759	The amendment shall be accepted in part. Given that the words "invalid" and "persons" are written in subparagraph 3, paragraph 4, it is accepted that instead of the words "invalid physically immobilised person" are replaced by the words "persons with disabilities". The amendment in the section relating to the addition of the word "special needs" is not accepted. Namely, the term "person with special needs" is not in line with the Croatian legal system which knows the term of persons with disabilities. This term is in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which the Republic of Croatia has assumed and is binding on us. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The rule on the status and work of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia is prescribed that an application for the authorisation of a temporary or foreign stay for a minor child is submitted by his legal representative. This Regulation shall enter into force on the The final proposal for the Amendments and Supplements Act provides for exceptions when the application for temporary residence may be submitted by the authorising officer and it would not be logical to place children in exceptional situations as parents should, in that case, verify with the public notary. Therefore, the amendment is accepted in this section.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26760	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26761	We accept the explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26762	Thank you. He's giving up the amendment. We move on to the third amendment of MP Ingrid Antičević-Marinović to Article 16.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26763	The amendment is not accepted. Explanation. In accordance with Article 16 of the final proposal, the official MUP does not have the right to file an action for the annulment of marriage, nor can they deny the fact that marriage is concluded but can verify whether the marriage which is legally concluded is concluded, concluded solely for the purpose of the spouses' intention that one of them and one who is a stranger is granted temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia in order to join the family, avoiding the need to request temporary stay for another purpose and subject to stricter conditions. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on foreigners, which mentions the giving of dowries, does not introduce the Institute of Dowry into Croatian legislation. That provision, as well as all the points of paragraph 2 of that Article, merely points out the circumstances which may indicate the suspicion that in the complete case it is a marriage for the benefit of which the formulation was taken over from Resolution 97.c 382/01 of 4. 12. In 97 on measures to be taken to combat marriages in accounts. It is about giving dowry as a custom in a foreign country and not in the Republic of Croatia, and this is the institute that is unacceptable does not introduce the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Marriage from use defined by Resolution 97.c 382/01 of '97. the years on measures to be taken to combat marriages from an account which is an integral part of the legal property of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26764	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26765	Mr. Secretary of State, it was never so that an MUP employee would be an authorised person or an official of the MUP, therefore, in even the darkest times he could not decide whether marriage really exists or does not exist. So, from which motive is it concluded. Whether a marriage exists or does not exist can only be decided by the court in a litigation procedure. The law defines exactly who are the authorities who could file such a lawsuit, so besides marriage mates, legal interests can also have a welfare centre. That's how you could handle it. Such authority, whether there is a marriage in an account or not, and from which the motive is concluded, would then be one reason, that would then be one of the reasons for indifference, this is determined in a court procedure in a divorce, i.e. in an action for the annulment of marriage and the existence of marriage. And it can't be the police, so we don't live or start forming a police state even in family relations. This is something that is legal precedent, and it is never in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, and even when it was in some other forms of state-owned, state-owned law never existed. Please vote. And otherwise, if I do, I'm also warning of the counter-constitution of this provision. And please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26766	Thank you. I am putting this amendment to article 16 on a vote that the government does not normally accept. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 4th Amendment to Article 22 The Committee on Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26767	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26768	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Amendment 5 of the HNS agent to Article 44
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26769	The amendment is not accepted. By adopting the amendments, the whole concept of the Foreign Law should be amended. The issue of a work permit, i.e. a business permit related to the regulation of the temporary residence of foreigners carried out by the Ministry of the Interior. It is therefore necessary to amend most of the provisions of the Foreign Law by adopting this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26770	Thank you. In the name of the club, Mr... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26771	I have to say, I can't believe I heard right. Namely, if volunteer work is not allowed to differ in work camps, and if this is under way and no exemption is allowed, then you will bring the Republic of Croatia into a very awkward position when entering the European Union. So this amendment 5 and Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26772	No, this is some kind of misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26773	I apologize, then I am.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26774	This is about Article 44. HNS's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26775	That is how it is added "students who come to volunteer work in work camps and in similar work programmes" in the organisation of Croatian associations or institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26776	I apologize, amendment to article 44. The club of the representatives of the HNS shall be accepted. I have a different numbering list here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26777	It's a misunderstanding. Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26778	The amendment is not accepted. For example, in Article 118 of the Treaty on the The law on foreigners has already been prescribed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia lays down an annual labour permit quota that includes the employment of foreigners in seasonal affairs. In accordance with the provisions of Article 124(2) of the applicable Foreign Law, seasonal employment is prescribed to be carried out for a maximum period of up to 6 months in accordance with the government's decision to lay down the annual quota of work permits for the recruitment of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia for 2009. For seasonal employment, 410 work permits have been granted, out of which 400 work permits have been paid for employment in agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26779	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26780	Thank you, Mr. President. I understand that it can be solved with numerical quotas. The idea was to simplify the solving of practical life situations. I'm not sure that's settled with this argument, so I suggest we vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26781	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26782	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26783	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 8 amendments to the representatives of Bora Grubisic in Article 121: "In the request referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article the Ministry of Labour shall decide."
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26784	It is not accepted because it would change the concept of the whole law. That's what I was getting myself into.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26785	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26786	Mr. Secretary of State, there is not a single European country in which permits to work are issued by the Ministry of the Interior, but by the Ministry of Labour. You and I both know well when this change occurred in the Republic of Croatia, when in fact the ministry responsible for working or acquittal went to the Ministry of the Interior, so there was that time of Bechtel and those workers from Turkey who were supposed to have an emergency permit or work permit procedure. Therefore, this practice is unique and unique in the Republic of Croatia, so the Ministry of Interior issues work permits. I really don't know where else we can find it. Thank you very much. I'd like a vote on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26787	Who is to propose this amendment to Mr Bora Grubisic, please raise your hand. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendments 1 and 2 of Bora Grubisic have not been submitted in accordance with Article 163(3). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and we do not vote on them because they refer to articles that do not change in this law. Thank you very much. I therefore vote on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Law. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The law was adopted by a majority of votes, 70 votes in favour, 26 abstentions and 7 votes against, along with the amendments accepted. We move to: - Proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2009 - Appendix A to the national programme of the Republic of Croatia for accession to the European Union – 2009 The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 129. Rules of Procedure. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Information, Information and Media, the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mr Davor Bozinovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26789	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is my pleasure to have the opportunity to present in the Croatian Parliament a new national programme for the accession of the European Union for 2009. The meeting of the Croatian Parliament will, somehow, begin every year with a debate on this important document, which is another proof that the Government continues to work with unlimited intensity and in this year to achieve the strategic objective, to adapt legislation as one of the fundamental assumptions of membership to the European Union. During last year, the dynamics of work on meeting the obligations arising from negotiations with the European Union have been further intensified. In 2008, the Croatian Parliament passed 121 laws that we passed on to our legislation the best legal solutions resulting from the legal gains of the European Union. I would like to point out that 267 so-called "the 2000-2007" total was adopted in the period 2000-2007 period. European laws. We are pleased that our progress has also been confirmed in the latest progress report, the accession process, the accession that positively assessed our achievements in meeting the criteria for membership, political, economic, to the obligations arising from membership. Croatia particularly welcomes the publication of so-called ... An indicative timetable for the end of the negotiations by the end of 2009. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So far, as is known, we have opened a total of 22 negotiating chapters of which 7 have been temporarily closed. In addition, Croatia submitted negotiating positions for 9 chapters, and documents confirming the fulfilment of the closing criteria in three chapters. But progress in these 11 chapters was unfortunately not possible because of the Slovenian blockade at the last intergovernmental conference. However, the government is determined to continue the strong implementation of internal reforms and to meet the membership criteria. This year's national programme and the proposal for a coordination plan are the final stage in the process of approximation. The government adopted a national programme at its session on December 29th and, following previous practice, sent it to the Croatian Parliament to provide full and timely information on all the concrete activities we are planning for this year. Given the key role of the Croatian Parliament in the debate and adoption of legislative proposals, the Government proposes to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of Appendix A to the National Programme containing a list of all laws to be taken over by the legal property of the European Union in 2009. The new national programme provides for a further continuation of activities under all membership criteria and negotiating chapters. It includes the most important topics, meeting politically conditioned criteria, economic adjustment, commitment and membership capacity. The national programme provides for the adoption of a series of strategic development documents, individual sectors such as agriculture, public procurement systems and competition. Further strengthening of the legislative framework is also foreseen to ensure the successful implementation of the reform of the judiciary and state administration. And this year, we will adopt a number of laws, sublegal acts, as well as a series of implementing measures to ensure effective implementation through strengthening administrative capacity. All obligations arising from the closure criteria are contained in Appendix A of the national programme and are particularly highlighted. As regards the statistics of the coordination process in the current year of the national programme, the adoption of 57 laws, 251 sublaws, and 165 implementing measures are foreseen. Most of the necessary legislative reforms will be implemented in the right half of 2009 and, accordingly, the commitments are allocated as follows. In the first quarter, we envision the adoption of 20 legislative proposals, in the second further 28, adoption of 8 in the fourth quarter and the adoption of one legislative proposal remaining in the fourth quarter. Our determination to implement reforms in a number of areas is visible from the figures mentioned above, and the ministries that will perform most of the work in 2009 will be the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Health and Social Care. In conclusion, but not less importantly, the issue of providing financial resources for the need to implement all planned activities, Appendix B of the National Programme reflects the financial perspective of all activities, projects and programmes to strengthen existing institutions necessary to meet the criteria for membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, by presenting a new national programme for the current year, we are assessing that it confirms the readiness of the Republic of Croatia to deliver priorities in the convergence process through the implementation of concrete measures. It represents a very important step towards achieving the strategic objective of full membership in the European Union. In order to achieve this goal, it is of course necessary to make every effort to meet the priorities arising from membership. the takeover and implementation of the acquis. Finally, I would like to reiterate that all the efforts, all the reforms that we are making, are not focused on some dates or on the European Union itself, the accession to the European Union is a project that we have entered into for our own sake and we are convinced that this is actually a better future for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26790	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26791	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS club will certainly support this plan, but we must express our suspicion of whether or not we will be able to realise it. Last year, the Croatian Parliament discussed and harmonised over 120 laws. We often received these laws for a day or two before the debate. Of course, we were unable to take this seriously, analyze, and help to shape a final, final form of law because of the lack of time and the possibility of consulting and to participate more seriously in the process. My colleagues and colleagues, I'm sorry that almost nobody answered this point, but if you looked, I think a very small number of people answered, and I asked, and I think this is a very important question. You've seen that in the first quarter we have a plan to comply with 20 laws. My colleagues and colleagues, have you wondered how many laws we've gotten so far? So far, as far as I know, we've only got one law, it's the Noise Protection Act. The other 19 I haven't even seen in the form of a proposal. So I think we're going to get back to the time narrow, we're going to be working fast again, we're going to be unable to consult with colleagues from certain areas, and that's certainly not good. What the HNS Club would further clearly want to point out here, that we are glad to hear that there is one positive mood in Brussels, that through technical consultations there is much that we can find out in which direction we can work in adapting and those laws that we have not yet adapted, because these technical consultations have enabled us to see exactly what areas we need to coordinate and therefore, even in the area of these 11 chapters that we have not yet opened, I think we know what we are doing. Therefore, we believe that the government and all of you working on it should certainly take advantage of that good mood, and we of the Parliament will certainly give you support, help, but I certainly say, I repeat, do not put us in a position to do so in an hour, two, three. It's not possible and it's not a serious job then. What we would also like from the HNS Club to tell our colleagues from the Parliament is that this job is waiting for us and after we comply with all the laws and after we enter the European Union, this work of harmonisation and with future amendments, the additions of the directive await us as a permanent business and permanent commitment of this Assembly. That's why we recommend that we leave now, I don't know whether the Parliament's presidency has already discussed it or not, we go clearly into restructuring certain of our services. Our Committee on European Integration should certainly become a Committee on European Affairs. We should certainly try to get involved in a series of experimental, I would say, actions that the European Union is doing. For example, Kozak had opportunities and even offered candidate countries the opportunity to participate in various actions, initiatives. You know, colleagues, that in the future, when we become a member of the European Union, we will already be able to participate in the development of these proposals in a way that we will have 8 weeks, it seems to me, a time to get space to analyse these proposals, to analyse these proposals through the Committee on European Affairs or our parent committees, to report to Brussels and to inform which things are acceptable to us, and where we are looking for certain changes. We are certainly not in this direction, in terms of clear reorganisation and our services and our work, doing anything for the time being, or proposing, I think we should not wait for us to enter the European Union, and then start to think further, but now to prepare ourselves for that second phase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26792	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26793	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State. The legal property of the European Union is the legislation of the European Union which makes up a large number of legal acts of primary and secondary legislation, i.e. contracts, regulations, directives, decisions, recommendations, opinions and judgments of the European Court of Justice. The harmonisation of legislation is a continuous process during which, in accordance with the adoption of the new rules of the European Union or with the amendments to the existing ones, the provisions of the Republic of Croatia which are incorporated into national legislation need to be brought into line. The Republic of Croatia has so far achieved a very good dynamic of the process of harmonisation of legislation, especially in relation to last year when the Croatian Parliament adopted over a hundred laws that we have brought our legal system closer to and aligned with the regulatory and best practice present in the European Union. This is the assessment that stems from the European Commission's progress report in 2008, and I believe that the successful process of the contained negotiations on full membership during last year is also a clear indicator of Croatia's progress in taking over the legal gains of the European Union. This year's national programme and the proposal for a coordination plan are the final stage in our approach to the European Union. Although the national programme primarily speaks of planned legislative activities, it also provides for any other measures necessary to effectively adapt the entire legal system to the European legal system. In fact, the statistics themselves on the transposition of European Union rules into national legislation cannot be the only indicator of how compatible our system has become with European law. It is also necessary to stress that the quality of our laws is not a security mechanism for full membership in the European Union. Full compliance may only be spoken of when full application of the harmonised rules is achieved. the effective application of harmonised laws shall be ensured through the establishment of an appropriate institutional structure in order to strengthen the administrative capacity of the implementing bodies. I would therefore particularly like to point out that this year's National Programme provides for concrete measures to strengthen the institutional capacity to implement harmonised legislation, which is actually the basis for the full implementation of European regulations. That is why we support this year's National Programme and the legislative harmonisation plan and encourage the entire state administration to implement it fully. Our consistency in its implementation will guarantee not only the fulfilment of all the criteria for membership in the European Union but also the improvement of all our citizens and economic operators, whom we thus ensure the functioning of the rule of law and the market economy according to European standards. The process of harmonisation of legislation, i.e. The transposition of the acquis and national legislation is a lasting and irrevocable process, i.e. any candidate country for membership shall come out. But also every country on its path to membership in the European Union, starting from its national legal heritage, has the right to choose ways to transfer legal gain to our reality and practice. I am convinced that today's results show that Croatia has chosen the right model and therefore I support the adoption of a legislative harmonisation plan for 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26794	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26795	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. On the occasion of this proposed plan, only three observations, perhaps even an appeal to the promoters. From the list of laws that the Parliament should coordinate during this year, for example, the Consumer Protection Act, the Drug Act, the Law on the collection of parts of the human body, the Law on excise duties, the Water Law, the Law on the financing of the water economy, the Law on Courts, the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, and I'm jumping to the Regional Development Act. All these laws in the House were backwards two, three years of change and addition, changes and additions. For some, this will be during the time of my fifth alterations and additions to Parliament. In an explanation, on average there are three, on average from the European package each law has experienced at least three amendments and additions after adoption, and this is not against the fact that there is no introduction to any law stating that these amendments and additions must be made because of Directive EC No. In 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 the law was in the Parliament in 2007, 2008. So now I have a question for Mr. Buzinovic, Mr. Secretary of State, how many directives older than 2007 and the laws that were in the Parliament last year, so in 2008, he will have to come up for repair because the promoter did not install all the necessary directives in time. It was 2006, 2005, fourth, third, second. Why does it happen to us that the four, five, six-year-old directives do not build on us, but when the law comes to Brussels or the European Commission's office in Zagreb, they must warn us that we have not done something. As a rule, the need to amend and supplement the directive is at least five years old. And, as a rule, this must be done because the European Commission has warned that even the last amendment and supplement has not been made. I believe you will agree with me that the better law is to bring two weeks or three weeks later, but to be complete, not three, four, five times changed. Furthermore, look at these laws and numerous amendments and additions not to publish the consolidated texts of these laws, especially laws relating to civil and human rights, social, pension, labor, whatever you want. So it's already hard for me to read and follow the laws and regulations that have been changed, let alone those who don't have a professional job. Secondly, I also want to believe that you will agree with me that the very production of the law and the sealing of the law is not the goal. One way and the mechanism is yes, but not the ultimate goal because I do not believe that these legal rules of Europe exist only because they exist, but that they are applied and respected. The speed we're working on prevents the system's institutions from adapting to new rules. I don't know why. Do we not have enough education, preparation, education, insufficient quality of administrative capacity. But I would like to say that after six months, you are the one who comes before the Parliament and gives us at least one first analysis of the impact and implementation of the law in the European package. Because when it comes to controversial tones in this assembly, the main argument is that we have implemented the harmonisation of the law with the acquis of the European Union and then we are counting how many laws we already have, which is in the process, how many more we have to do. And we say now we've made our own. I would say we have just begun our work by passing laws that have no value or benefit for the citizens of this country, and because of these laws, citizens will not vote to enter the European Union unless they are practically implemented or citizens do not feel the consequences of this law, only when restrictions, when European rules prohibit, impose or reduce already acquired rights. I think it's the final moment, and we've brought over 200 such laws so far over the last four years and instead of fighting the number of laws and competitions when more than the first such analysis comes before the Parliament. What's better for Croatia now, changed? How do these laws go? Where are the black holes? Where's the most resistance, misunderstandings, misunderstandings? Where is administrative capacity not enough? Where are the laws interpreted differently that have remained unclear or are in great conflict with other regulations that we have not changed because they are not on the European package list? I think that would be very important. Not because we're criticizing someone, not because we're being politically outwitted, but because we're helping those in charge of making things better together. And you, and that's my third observation, mentioned negotiating positions. Each of these laws and their frequent changes and additions are the consequences of negotiating positions. I don't know if you do, but the Parliament doesn't know what the negotiating positions of the Croatian Government are. And now, why does it matter? There comes a bill or amendments and amendments to the law, we discuss here, we write amendments, we try to improve by not knowing the negotiating positions and what the negotiating team has finally agreed on. In any area, mining, for example. And now that the Mining Act comes, there may be fifteen, twenty amendments that will have to be rejected because it is already in the negotiating position, ours, that is different, or perhaps already negotiated differently. And that is why there are often polemic tones, misunderstandings, and even beyond what we should do in Parliament because we do not have negotiating positions. We do not know what, for example, in the financing of water, the water economy, the Croatian Government wrote down from the negotiating positions, or in the meantime already negotiated that part, so we need to change the law. So maybe, and why I mentioned it, it would be very good to appeal to your associates, to everyone else who writes the explanation of the situation and the assessment of the situation. It is immediately the first, second, third page, sometimes only two, sometimes fifteen of them to write these amendments to the law are the directive of the number, both that and that, but also the adult consequences of the Croatian Government's negotiating positions or agreed negotiated positions, so they were the European Commission's negotiating positions and were the negotiating positions of Croatia and as a product, as a result of the agreements these changes have to be neither left nor right, nor millimeter up, nor down. If we don't torture ourselves here and don't outwit ourselves, we're writing amendments because I understand what's been negotiated, what's agreed, or what's past the negotiating positions the government itself has identified, that you can't accept and it's normal that you can't... Because we don't have them in advance, and we don't have them after that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You will get both quality and speed, and many misunderstandings will be avoided. All the laws of P.Z.E. We should have that note. It is at least a minimum that legislators should give to us parliamentarians, if not in a negotiating position package, then in a concrete law. It's very simple. You agree that it's not a problem to enroll in the reasons of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26796	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26797	Thank you, Mr. President. A fellow Lesar, just one brief intervention. In fact, I agree with you that the government should also give us a regular assessment of the harmonisation of the law. It is particularly important to implement these laws, to assess where the problems are, where they are puzzled, what has to be done, because we can, at least indirectly help to resolve them, but if it is an assessment of the implementation by an independent observer, if they are independent, probably are, the European Commission regularly gives us a report on Croatia's progress. This latest report that we received two, three months ago gave us all the weak points, and they are very, very many, therefore you and I can read a lot of things, but I agree that it can be complemented by the attitude of our side. And as for the negotiating positions, the National Committee has them, the National Committee, because there sits the presidents of all clubs, can intervene every member of the National Committee, and therefore, we still have as parliamentary representatives, at least indirectly through our colleagues sitting on the National Committee to influence the negotiating positions and all that matters. Well, that's what I had to say, so I agree with part of your exposure, but there are some things we can do now.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26798	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26799	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleague Doric, I agree with you and it is true that the European Commission is reporting on Croatia's progress and other potential candidates for full membership. And they really follow very well, not only when we pass laws, but how we apply them later, but not that I don't trust the Brussels bureaucracy, not that we don't believe them. I'd like our government to do that and she's reporting us. Why would I trust these in Brussels more than neighbors on the other side of Mark's square? So, instead of this progress report made by the European Commission, I would like a report on the progress made by the Croatian Government in the context of the implementation of the laws proposed by the Parliament. You know, 'cause when it comes to these strangers, I always have to wonder if there's a score or a point in their report standing or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26800	And Mrs. Representative Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26801	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It seems to me that for the third or fourth time on this subject, I'm going to have the same debate, and it's pretty sad because it shows that over the years absolutely nothing has changed. By supporting the debate, especially colleagues of Doric and colleagues of Lesar, I would like to warn you of one more thing, which is what happens to these European laws when they come here to the Croatian Parliament. All these laws bear the label P.Z.E. And they get it as P.Z.E. It's based on a list that we're going to adopt today or Friday. That P.Z.E. the label according to our Rules of Procedure means that these laws go into debate in an emergency procedure and it is kind of unwritten, so to speak, since 2002, or 2003, that these laws are generally adopted more or less unanimously, i.e. there is a high degree of consent around them. And what I want to warn you about last year is the fact that this P.Z.E. the label is very often misused. When I talk about abuse, I mean the following. So here's what I'm going to tell you on one particular example, so you just know what I really want, what I'm warning you about. The Law on education and education in primary and secondary schools, in the 2008 legislative harmonisation plan, said that, I don't know, in the second quarter, we would amend the Law on primary and secondary education from the programme of joining the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, that was a visible reason, so the reasons were to address the issue of schooling of migrant children and foreign citizens and such things. What happened in practice is that the Resort Ministry of Science has completely changed the whole law. Absolutely all the provisions in the law. In another way, regoverned the issues of school committees, plans not to talk about this discussion that we had this summer, and in fact this European part was only about that, or these two articles were about European provisions. Nevertheless, the whole law had a P.Z.E. mark. and we discussed everything as a European law, although 99% of the text of this law was related to the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. I am not just saying that because of such an accelerated procedure, we have really worse laws, but we are also giving our citizens the impression that we are doing worse, unpopular measures because of this evil and terrible European Union, and that is not a good message that we from the Croatian Parliament should send here. More than I think there are consensus of parliamentary parties on the issue of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. And that shows the results of the last... research that shows that indeed the vast majority of citizens, as time goes by, for these or those reasons, increasingly differing over the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In particular, 38% said that Croatian membership is not good or bad, 29% thinks that the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union is good and 26% estimates bad. So, I'd kind of like to appeal that when we bring the laws in this plan into line with the legislation, so what we're reading in our procedure is P.Z.E. The laws are then, indeed, set out in their content and in some way limited only to those of the content and relating to the amendment to the regulation that is necessary to comply with Croatian legislation with European Union legislation. For these reasons, many laws as European, but ultimately they are not and ultimately do not get the support of the majority they would otherwise get just because they are often wronged by things that would otherwise be very difficult to obtain in the normal process in Parliament. It's just not good. Secondly, in part, both counterparts Doric and counterpart Lesar spoke about it. It's pretty hard for us as agents to get a list like this, to see what to actually say behind the hill is good, all over the story. What's that supposed to mean to us? And it seems to me that this adoption of this legislative harmonisation plan should still be a little more than just a formal obligation that follows from some of our documents, or agreements. I absolutely agree, it seems to me that fellow Doric mentioned it, about the superficiality in the very procedure of passing these laws. Partly due to the preparation of the ministries, the other part because of the procedure that was in parliament. One case, there were several of them. Law to prevent the spread of infectious diseases among the public. Last year, at the 7th month, we changed that law, like P.Z.E. Even though we're the law as P.Z.E. brought somewhere in early 2007. From January 2007, when we passed the law, until July 2008, when we changed it, absolutely nothing new happened in European legislation. No new directive has been adopted, nor any mandatory instructions have been adopted. Absolutely nothing happened. And we're just our law. To be clear, neither the consultations were conducted in the meantime, nor the chapter was opened. So absolutely nothing happened in this area, and we had one more law to amend just because, even though we voted it fully in line with the European Union in 2007, someone failed to do something about those previous directives. And these cases are very common here. I repeat, it is really hard to follow, but it is not good for Parliament or for the seriousness of the acts that we bring here in Parliament. And a third. I would really argue that apart from this very list of the names of the laws, it kind of happens to be what I would say, that every name of the law has a short definition of what it actually refers to in two, three lines. Because let's say, I remember this patent, stamp and topography protection bill, because those were the first laws to be found on this list, and we totally aligned them in 2003. And we've been harmonising those laws, and I think, like, three times as far as I can since 2003, because maybe there's a real reason for that. Perhaps some new, some new directives have been adopted, some new rules that we need to comply with, and I would simply like to vote in favour of this list of measures on Friday, so that I simply know what these laws apply to. Because, knowing the practice I mentioned at the beginning of the debate about, so to speak, the abuse of that P.Z.E. beating. sealing on laws that are and are not, then we can very well ask ourselves whether, in fact, under the company of change and harmonisation with European legislation, it is something that it is not. I don't know, this Law on Electronic Media, I guess every year the Law on Electronic Media. A little, not each other, but each other. So let me get this straight. We won't have much more of these lists I hope to adopt. I know that the appeals that I say I repeat from year to year will remain well and in vain, because this job is slowly moving towards the end, but it really wouldn't be bad if we got some more information about the harmonisation of the legislation itself. One question concerning the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. If I am not mistaken a few years ago, we, as the Croatian Parliament, adopted the communication strategy of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union, or so it was called. He's had quite a lively debate here in Parliament. Here I would be personally interested, because I hope that the time itself is slowly coming to an end, and that these results of the public opinion survey say that we haven't gone too far to increase the support of Croatian citizens to join the European Union, and that, as some kind of report or just as information to the representatives, we get a report on the implementation of this, I apologize for not knowing the exact name, but it seems to me that the national programme or action programme, or somehow, a plan to inform citizens about the accession of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26802	Thank you. And in the name of the government, State Secretary Mr. Davor Bozinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26803	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to try to answer like this in general, because there's really been a lot of individual interventions that I think are well-intentioned and in line with the intensity to advance this whole job. First of all, this year's legislation. So, the process is under way. So far, two laws have already been passed in the government and are being sent to the procedure at the Croatian Parliament. This week if I'm not wrong on the agenda of the government session, it's six laws. So the dynamics will take place. What seems important to me to point out, and perhaps I also cover a large part of the individual interventions, which is that this year the number of laws is smaller and is much smaller, but you noticed that a large number of sublegal acts and measures. So, this year there will be fewer laws and maybe even these experiences that you've been talking about, and the emphasis will just be on implementation. And of course law enforcement is the ultimate goal, because when the laws move into life that's their purpose, and then the best way to measure to what extent we've really adapted the whole legislation to the conditions that, living conditions. I also thank you for these remarks on compliance with the directives. What is today's subject and therefore these 57th laws, and I can assure you that this is a alignment with the new European Union directives and that I would not agree that it is or that it will be some kind of billing. This is when this year's programme is about harmonising with what has been created in the meantime, and most of these new directives are actually going to be dealt with this year. I think Mr. Doric has partly answered the question of negotiating positions. This is institutionally settled in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, all negotiating positions are referred to the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations where they are also discussed in accordance with the procedure. So, the Parliament is involved in that segment. When you tell Mr. Lesar that you prefer and trust the Croatian administration, I thank you for that and I expect it. Otherwise, this report, which the European Commission makes every year, is produced on the basis of an instruction called Self Assessment, which is actually one material that serves them for the basis and then on this material about the assessment of certain achievements that were envisaged at that time as the European Union's position, lasts talks and consultations. So, it's a formal report from the European Commission, but we've been in the process from the very beginning, although if you want to and for the most part, the first most important part of the job so the instructions to the Commission are ours. That's it. I'd just tell Mrs. Lugaric, we know about this research. However, I am not saying that this research is still showing that most Croatian citizens are for membership in the European Union. And this research if you want to trace a public change study in the countries that have become members in the previous round of enlargements that were at this final stage. So, usually your support is 80, 90% when I don't know the country or start negotiating. Later when these negotiations come to a more advanced stage, when we face the demands of this or that kind, of course citizens become both more conscious and critical. But I would say that it is a criticism of those, therefore, criticism of an organisation that is already experiencing, in this case integration as its own. So that's what I would say one internal criticism of the European let's say some practice that we experience as our own, and in that sense, Mr Lesar, I am sure that Croatian citizens will vote in the majority and vote membership in the European Union for what they know, and we will, in the implementation of a communication strategy that has also been discussed, and I hope that all MPs will convince them that this is for their own good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26804	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26805	Proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2009, Appendix A to the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for Accession of the European Union 2009. I'm voting on the proposal for this plan. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. Score. Unanimously, with 108 votes in favour, bring the proposed plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26806	We move to: - Proposal for a National Development Cooperation Strategy of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2009 to 2014 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government submitted this proposal to Article 6 on development cooperation and humanitarian aid to the abroad. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. Do the proposing representatives want to further explain? Yeah. On behalf of Proposer Davor Bozinovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26807	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Before you is the Proposal for a National Development Cooperation Strategy of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2009 to 2014 which came from the Law on Development Cooperation and humanitarian aid adopted in this Parliament in December 2008. The international cooperation policy is an integral part of Croatia's foreign policy and its objectives are equivalent to those of the European Union and are in line with the objectives of relevant international organisations. The European Union is the largest provider of assistance to developing countries, therefore the largest aid donor in the world, and therefore taking into account the future membership of the Republic of Croatia in the Union and taking over the new role of the donor country, it is necessary to define the policy strategy of international development cooperation. Since the Republic of Croatia only recently began its transformation from and the recipient country to help the donor country at international and regional level. It was necessary to formulate a systematic development aid policy in line with our capabilities, with our economic, political objectives at the same time taking into account the objectives, guidelines and political decisions of the European Union. Our willingness to participate more actively in the world peace process and to achieve the goals of the United Nations Millennium Declaration has decided to confirm and increase the contribution to UN programmes and activities that will systematically increase in the coming years. Over the past decade, the Republic of Croatia has provided development assistance to Bosnia and Herzegovina's largest work mainly to rebuild houses to returnees of funding, education, cultural, health, scientific programmes and projects for financing visiting professors from Croatian universities. Development cooperation policy is one of the complementary state policies that involve good networking and cooperation both state institutions and private and non-governmental sectors. The government is the country's main political body for international development cooperation and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration is responsible for co-ordination of international development cooperation policy. International development aid also includes the provision of humanitarian aid, with the government working closely with partners such as the Croatian Caritas and the Croatian Red Cross. I would just like to take a brief look at the main elements or content of the strategy. The basic principles according to which Croatia will be led in selecting the priorities of the recipient countries are the effectiveness of management of the official development assistance programme, transparency of the allocation of funds and the view of the comparative advantages of Croatia and the guidance of assistance in areas where we have specific knowledge and experience. Due to limited and human and financial resources, development aid should be limited to a number of priority countries, primarily by regional co-operation in which Croatia has a strong political and economic interest, i.e. the region of South-Eastern Europe and countries which are the priority of the development policy of the European Union. The areas in which Croatia could transfer its knowledge and experience are the transfer of experiences related to the political and economic transition, the reform processes related to the harmonisation of society with European Union standards, the experience from the accession process to the European Union, the transfer of experiences resulting from specific circumstances of war and pornography, so demining, forensics, physical and psychological rehabilitation, assistance in education, scholarships, training of experts and technical staff through seminars, donations, scholarships to study or stay in Croatia, technical assistance. The forms of implementation of international development cooperation will be bilateral, trilateral and multilateral. Bilaterally, of course, consists of technical and financial support to the receiving countries. In the area of multilateral cooperation, mandatory and voluntary contributions through international organisations are expected and the possibility of trilateral cooperation with other donors or multilateral organisations will be explored in order to exchange experiences and increase efficiency. In addition to the Development Cooperation Act and humanitarian assistance abroad adopted in December of last year, rules establishing policy and planning official development assistance are the national strategy and implementation programme for each year in question. The implementation programme to be adopted by the Government will establish a plan of activities in the field of official development assistance for each financial year. This strategy brings together the legislative framework for development cooperation in the Republic of Croatia. It certainly fulfils the obligations set out in the 2008 National Programme. Also in the closure action plan of Chapter 30 — external relations. We therefore propose the adoption of this strategy proposal in order to define the principles and guidelines of Croatian official development aid, its territorial and thematic priorities and to identify the institutional, financial frameworks of international development cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26808	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Policy, Mr. Mario Zubovic is the chairman of the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26809	Thank you very much. Mr. President. At the 17th session held on 29 January 2009, the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a national strategy for the development cooperation of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2009-2014 submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 8 January 2009. The Committee on Foreign Policy discussed this proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a home working body. Since the Republic of Croatia, as a future member of the European Union, will have to assume the new role of the donor country, it is necessary to define the policy of international development cooperation, which is also an integral part of Croatian foreign policy. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has therefore formulated a systematic development aid policy in line with Croatian opportunities as well as its economic and political objectives and in line with the European Union's declared objectives and the Millennium Development Goals of the United Nations. The members of the Committee on Foreign Policy in the debate stressed the importance of the interest of the Republic of Croatia as future members of Euro-Atlantic integration as well as of the wider positioning and influence of Croatia in the International Community. To systematically improve the policy of international development cooperation and therefore decide to support the proposal for a national strategy for the development cooperation of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2009 to 2014. It is pointed out that the Republic of Croatia can take on a stable and development-enhancing role primarily in South-Eastern Europe but in a wider international context. In the debate, support for the participation of the Republic of Croatia in international activities aimed at achieving sustainable development and removing potential factors of instability in the world on the basis of bilateral and multilateral cooperation. Following the debate, the Committee on Foreign Policy unanimously supported this proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament a proposal for a National Development Cooperation Strategy for the period 2009 to 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26810	Thank you. Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, Honorary Representative Ivan Bagarić, Chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26811	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia discussed at the 11th session of the National Development Cooperation Strategy of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2009-2014 which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 8 January 2009. The proposer explained the proposal for a national development cooperation strategy, inter alia, as well as the government's commitment under the Development Co-operation Act and humanitarian aid abroad. Starting with the fact that Croatia, a future member of the European Union, will take a new role, the donor country needs to define its policy of international development cooperation in a way that is consistent with the European acquis. The international development cooperation policy is an integral part of Croatia's policy that is already now, and will contribute even more in the future to stabilisation and development, particularly in the countries of Southeast Europe. In the past decade, the Republic of Croatia has been providing development assistance to most Bosnia and Herzegovina, and through projects implemented by the resolution ministries are related to reconstruction, the health sector, culture and education. Croatia also contributes to security and development in the wider international plan, primarily through its engagement in peacekeeping missions, and based on the vast humanitarian experience of the Homeland War and the general resolution of the consequences of the war. The Republic of Croatia has also made voluntary contributions within the United Nations, international organisations and peacekeeping missions, including training and development projects. The debate highlighted the importance of this strategy in general, as Croatia can offer the world primarily an important contribution to the knowledge needed to improve the humanitarian area, but it also talked about projects relating to the support of countries in which our countrymen live, which is of particular interest to our committee. The importance of formulating a systematic development aid policy is highlighted in general, but also those aimed at institutions and institutions of Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia, which are not the subject of this strategy. This National Strategy for the Development Cooperation of the Republic of Croatia in parts of the assistance to the countries in which Croats live, as well as the sustainable development strategy of the Republic of Croatia, should be complemented by the Strategy of Systemic Relations towards Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. The team will be completed and effective and effective support for our countrymen living outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia, which is not only our constitutional obligation, but also economic, demographic and any other interest, both the Republic of Croatia and the Croats outside. The importance of our Catholic missions and missionaries that can be included in the relief system is also highlighted, especially in the poor countries where they operate. It is concluded that support is given to establishing a system of assessment of the results achieved in relation to the funds invested, as well as the keeping of the register, everything the Republic of Croatia is doing in the field of development and humanitarian assistance. Finally, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly a proposal for a national strategy for the development cooperation of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2009 to 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26812	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. They're clubs first. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26813	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm reporting on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club. In the beginning of December of last year, we discussed and adopted the Law on Development Cooperation and humanitarian aid abroad. In accordance with Article 6 of that Law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to developing the National Development Cooperation Strategy of the Republic of Croatia for the five-year period, until 2009 and this proposal is before us today. The adoption of this strategy is therefore an obligation arising from the law is part of the obligations of the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. As set out in the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union for 2008 and in the Action Plan for the closure of Chapter 30. - External relations, however, I believe that this strategy, i.e. the general development cooperation of the Republic of Croatia, is an important instrument of foreign policy, regardless of the obligations we have towards the European Union. The implementation of this strategy can be a long-term good investment in good relations, positioning and influence of Croatia in the countries where we provide assistance. The text of the proposal for a national strategy quite clearly explains the context, current state and objectives, as well as the territorial thematic priorities and mechanisms of implementation and the strategy in the five-year period ahead. I'd like to point out a few aspects, though. It is commendable that this strategy recognises the region of Southeast Europe as a priority area to which the Republic of Croatia will focus development cooperation. Of course, there is no need to exclude the need to help other parts of the world within the limits of our possibilities. I am primarily referring to the Millennium Development Goals of the United Nations, reducing extreme poverty and hunger, stopping the spread of AIDS, ensuring general primary education for all and enabling the poorest access to clean water by 2015. Our country began a transformation from the recipient country to the grant country at international and regional level several years ago. By joining and accepting the United Nations Millennium Declaration, the Republic of Croatia has made a commitment to meet all objectives within the deadline of 2015. For our country, this is of particular importance, as the achievement of the Millennium objectives is partly in line with the priorities related to the accession process of the European Union. Our country should be, of course, within the limits of its capabilities, ready to help others, especially in conveying developmental experiences. Our experience in approaching both NATO and the European Union can be precious to our Southeast neighbours. Experiences in using the Pre-Accession Assistance Programme can also be very useful to those of our neighbours whose programs are also being opened now. It must not be forgotten the possibility of passing on experiences and knowledge related to war and postwar periods, demining, forensics, mental and physical rehabilitation and others. And in this forum, I would like to remind you that we in the Croatian Parliament both in the Committee on Foreign Policy and other parliamentary committees that have international cooperation are already actively contributing to this cooperation. Last year we shared our experiences with colleagues from Kosovo, colleagues from Montenegro and Macedonia, and in December we also hosted the Committee on Foreign Policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina with which we also discussed the experiences on our path to the European Union. I hope that by summer we will have the opportunity to talk here and with Serbian colleagues, help them, their faster progress in Euro-Atlantic integration and the adoption of European standards is important for us too because it guarantees us a safer and more democratic neighbourhood. In view of all of the above, the Croatian Democratic Community believes that the National Development Cooperation Strategy of the Republic of Croatia should be supported for the period 2009 to 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26814	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26815	Mr. Vice President, distinguished government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will support this strategy, but we want to say immediately here that from this strategy some things are not clear enough, i.e. insufficiently underlined, and we will say a few words about it. I would start with one personal finding that I disagree with the secretary of state in just one sentence you said, which was when you said and spoke about areas where the Republic of Croatia could convey experiences. If it is a strategy then it should be very clear, then these are areas where the Republic of Croatia will convey its experience. Not pro futuro, but right now, we're talking about her exactly what and how. What I particularly like in this opening argument and we discussed at the club is this sentence. By formulating a systematic development aid policy in line with Croatian opportunities as well as its economic and political objectives. That's a great line. It is a sentence that should guide us through this strategy and to which we must bind our strategy. Unfortunately, we often do not have a strategy in various areas, that it is not clear, so clearly we cannot even implement it, and many other economic operators should have a local, regional community leaning on it, etc. So, this systematicity, this approach, the strategic approach we often miss often seems to me now. What is also not sufficiently highlighted here, and I think that is one great opportunity and one advantage in the coming years, and that is what they call in Europe seems to me to be the Euroen Neighbourhood, the EU's Neighbourhood policy. Therefore, policy towards countries at the external borders of the European Union. We'll be at those external borders for a relatively long time. Europe is deeply concerned that very clear economic flows, traffic flows, political co-operation, etc. are being established in these areas. And we think that there should have been a lot more emphasis on that area, because let's end up being honest and honest. There will also be certain assistance from the European Union. They will also financially support many projects and programmes in this area and should certainly take advantage of it, and clearly underline it here. If you take the priorities that we received on page 2 and page 4 of this material on the other page you have 4 points. The first Millennium Development Goals and the last policy of the European Union's development cooperation. We think that even the reverse order should have gone in the first place if it was priority at all or simply a set of tax objectives. But we think that we should think constantly of our colleagues and colleagues for our economic and political goals. Namely, if you give someone or donate some technological help, then you make them dependent on your technology, so I guess that's our economic goal. If you've given someone a machine, then you've made it dependent on your spare parts and on these and such appliances. If you trained him then he adheres to your principles, your principles. It clearly participates, thinks, develops in the way you've learned it, and so we think that we should very clearly separate some of the things that we've already heard in these last ten minutes. A colleague, Bagaric, spoke of Croats in the world as one of the main objectives of this strategy. I think it's just one whole, that it's the first, the second or the third. No, and you don't have to talk here and try to compete who's gonna help this group or that group more, but certainly you do. But if it is Euroien Neighbourhood policy then clearly we will not include the primary Croats in it, but we will speak in a broader context. We at the HNS are even convinced that we have never made a list of countries that we are economically interested in conveying to them our economic, political and other experiences. Is that the area all the way to the Black Sea? I believe so. Is that the Mediterranean area? I believe so. Are there many previously unclassified countries? I believe so. But I've never heard anything concrete in either strategy. I think we need to begin to clearly define what the objectives are, above all, land, technology, areas, etc. Okay, I won't be much longer because I repeat we'll support this strategy. But we certainly pray that, in any further step that we will take towards the realization of this strategy, we must be much clearer, much more concrete and that we must plan for the long run. I repeat, Euroen Neighbourhood policy will refer to a period of five, ten, fifteen years. But we need to develop a long-term strategy that will cover even a much longer period, but then we need to clearly refer to other countries with other objectives, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26816	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Honorable Representative Davorko Vidovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Another respected representative is Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26817	Dear Mr. Vice President, secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to start with one finding that today two and a half billion people in the world live with less than two dollars a day. One wonders whether it is possible to allow a conscience that is deeply disturbed by constant greed for profit, which necessarily turns this terrible number of people into slaves. We know well that the lack of income from employment, almost always goes with lack of access to education, health care, drinking water and other basic services, as well as climate change and environmental destruction most often affect the poor, so poverty reduction becomes the primary goal of the donor community. And we all know that just recently, as the Republic of Croatia has been said here, has started its transformation from the recipient country to help the donor country at international and regional level. The international development cooperation policy is an integral part of Croatian foreign policy. The territorial priorities have already been mentioned and the Republic of Croatia will focus its efforts in development cooperation primarily on the region of Southeast Europe because it believes that acquired knowledge and experience can be for the receiving countries. For example, in the past decade, the Republic of Croatia has provided development assistance to most of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Certain principles that the Republic of Croatia will first address will address the priorities identified by the recipient countries, their development strategies, based on the principles of sustainable development, good governance, democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. The international development cooperation policy is an integral part of Croatian foreign policy. Its objectives are coherent with policy at European Union level and are in line with the objectives of the international organisations of the United Nations and its agencies, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and others. The European Union is the world's largest provider of assistance to developing countries. The United Nations provides a universal format for international development co-operation within which important issues are discussed and negotiated. As for the implementation mechanism, the Republic of Croatia will provide humanitarian assistance in the event of disasters or prolonged military conflicts. It may consist of helping war refugees and helping after natural disasters, earthquakes, floods of droughts, which include food. When responding to such crisis situations, the government will work closely with partners such as the Croatian Caritas and the Croatian Red Cross. And something about thematic priorities through this action. First, the transfer of experience from political economic transition means the establishment and transfer of democratic structures, the creation of conditions for the market economy, the application of democratic other criteria. Second, experience from the accession negotiations to the European Union, such as negotiations in the chapters relating to social inclusion, then the creation of a precondition for pre-accession IPA assistance and the social care reform system for society as a whole. Furthermore, the reform processes for bringing society into line with European Union standards. Fourthly, the transfer of experience from specific war and war circumstances that we know well, means demining, forensics, physical and psychological rehabilitation, reconciliation. We move on, education, training of experts and staff, as has already been said, healthcare, environmental protection and energy efficiency. As regards co-ordination and management of official proportionate assistance, it should be strengthened in several areas. So a, in addition to strategic governance and coordination, needs to strengthen national programming capacities. So, defining programs and projects in recipient countries based on agreement with the truth. Sub b, implementation of official proportionate assistance. C, project cycle management to achieve greater efficiency and transparency. In this area, cooperation with other donors and multilateral organisations is possible, the promotion of research and analytical work on development cooperation by sending Croatian experts to practice in international organisations and other donors, i.e. the implementation of pilot projects with other donors. And in the end, one final thought that seems very instructive to me, and this is how I'm going to end up. Commendably and sublimely if we try to become a good or better human being, but in such an undertaking you ultimately cannot succeed unless there is a shift of consciousness because it is still part of the truth of dysfunction and... the form of improving itself and the growing desire to strengthen man's mental identity and his image of himself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Good, you can't get good if you're trying to be good, but only if you discover the kindness that already resides in you and let it surface. But in my opinion, it can only happen if, in your state of mind, there is a fundamental change. In line with what I last said, I support the proposal of the National Development Cooperation Strategy of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2009 to 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26818	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26819	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Very short. Comrade Kundic, I agree with most of what you said, but I just don't agree with you, and someone has mentioned Caritas before. You know, Caritas can be a strategy of the Catholic Church. And it should be, it's a very successful system, very much helping citizens, but here it's talking about the strategy of the Republic of Croatia, our Government. I wouldn't confuse it, and I don't think we have the right to go after each other and cover ourselves with Caritas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26820	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Stjepan Kundić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26821	Mr. Doric, Caritas was mentioned in this strategy, he was mentioned. And secondly, I have to remember the Great Gora and the wartime when this particular Caritas saved 7,600 refugees from the horrors of the church and of northern Italy, so I can never forget it, so I think it fits into this system.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26822	Thank you. And the announced debate, it hasn't yet, but I have to point it out, one minute. Here you are, dear representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26823	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, I'll try to be really quick, but he offered me a debate, so he encouraged me to argue with fellow Doric. Which is very important, I mean to say, and about this document, this strategy. So this strategy is not addressed directly, so it is not her target group of Croats in the world. So I don't think anyone could understand it. In particular, he could not understand, or I did not make it very clear and eloquently read it from the conclusions, or from the discussion of our committee, but rather the following. Therefore, given that the strategies, i.e. the activities of the Republic of Croatia, relate primarily to the countries of South-Eastern Europe, among which there are also still countries in which Croats make a significant number. There is, for example, I don't know both Vojvodina and Serbia as a whole, that I'm not talking about Kosovo, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, in one system, I fully agree with you fellow Doric, in one creation of a complete support system, let's say the Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, but not only support but also the interest of the Republic of Croatia in establishing a single system. So, co-operation with the general Croats in the world, then we should consider this segment. Simply, therefore, have this segment, so with all the other segments that it is actually one whole endeavor, one whole statement, I do not know the Republic of Croatia towards that part of its people. On the other hand, when you mentioned here I don't know Caritas, I even mentioned here Croatian Catholic missions etc. In this case, they can only be channels through which, among other things, Croatia will help the world and those who need them. For example. Croatia can plan tomorrow's support I don't know about developing a hospital for AIDS treatment in Africa either. And now who better to tell about the problem, or who can better convey the problem and in a certain way represent the representatives we have down there, among other things, are missionaries. I'm closing up. I apologize for being more than a minute, with the support of this strategy, especially the knowledge and experience we have and with which we can very well tell the world to perform relevantly and to help others prevent a humanitarian crisis, how in general I do not know how to prevent war and genocide, etc. Generally, because unfortunately we have enough experience in our own history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26824	Thank you. And on behalf of the promoter, Davor Bozinovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26825	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to thank all the honourable MPs who took the floor and supported this strategy and give only two comments. European Neighbourhood Policy, therefore, European Neighbourhood Policy is a policy which, of course, refers to countries that are outside the borders of the European Union, but which are not candidates for membership. The Republic of Croatia is part of, we can say, enlargement policies or part of the process of enlargement and stabilisation and enlargement in which other countries from this region are, so much so that we will never be covered by the neighbourhood policy. The moment we become a member, together with the other members of the European Union, we will implement that policy. And if I'm allowed to paraphrase the Assembly dictionary, I would correct my claim and I would. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26826	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26827	Proposal for a national strategy for the development cooperation of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2009 to 2014. I give the vote the conclusion: "The proposal is accepted." Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 105 votes for and 1 abstentioned accepted proposed strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26828	We move to - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the Declaration of the Western part of Medvednica Park of Nature, second reading, P.Z. No. 140 The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on Environmental Protection. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Zoran Šikic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26829	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In session 3.10. The Croatian Parliament discussed and adopted the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Declaration of the Western Part of Medvednica Park of Nature. I will point out that in 1981, the western part of Medvednica was declared Nature Park, but the institution that was founded for management was founded in 1999 and began working in 2000. It is also that the 1981 decision was made without an expert basis and without public insight, which would mean that the decision itself was not precise, it was not in the spirit of the standards we are implementing today, and that means precise definitions, meaning public insight and the very professional basis for which we have today also a national professional institution such as the National Nature Protection Institute. All of this resulted in the fact that the area covered by Nature Park was unaccounted for inaccurately, and thus beyond 1981 until the establishment and means the start of work of the facility was partly the result of devastion and unplanned construction. In order to correct this and to really access the quality management and quality valorisation of park management and to make the park truly what it deserves and through the revision of the existing protected areas, through the commitments that are now under way, and especially when it comes to joining the European Union in defining the main instrument of nature protection for the European Union, which is the European ecological network, or what we call the Natura 2000, it has been more precise definition, and ultimately, public insight has been organised where citizens could make observations and most of these remarks is positive and responsible. At the end of the day, the border is more precisely defined in a way where it was possible, that it does not pass through half the pitch of a cadastral particle or the object itself, and here we have come to this, that this area, relative to what we had in 1981, is shrinking. This was the main reason for the debate and, in some ways, the stumbling block to be placed in relation to the reduction of the protected area, which we finally see through the competent ministry, and also the government has accepted the fact that we still need to define that border and surface more precisely regardless of what it means to reduce this particular protected area. This took some time, in fact, even here for about two years precisely for the reason that the analysis was approached, and finally the analysis was accessed after the debate on the first reading here in the Croatian Parliament to determine whether there is a possibility in the same area, means here in the immediate environment of Zagreb to compensate the area. The only area where this could be compensated was the Green Area, however, by analysing all the criteria and settings we have definitely come to the natural, purely natural value, not thinking of the economic value of these forests does not meet the basic criteria of protection in any category, especially in the category of nature park. Furthermore, Croatia is also a country with exceptional biodiversity, with a total of over 12% of the protected land area now in one of the 9 categories of the Nature Protection Act, as well as a declared national ecological network, and indeed in a significant high percentage of 46%. We are now engaged in defining future natural areas, and given Croatia's size, we have definitely come to the realization that we can't make up for it in a narrow area here, in the Green area, but that it is possible to make up for compensation through these other protected areas through this increase that happened in Croatia over the last five, six years from somewhere 8% of the protected land area to now 12% and with significant areas of the ecological network and many of which are also here in the surroundings of Zagreb, i.e. Zagreb Mountains "Medvednice" and this whole move to Žumberk and Samoborsko Gora. The discussions we had on committees, and in particular the parent committee, the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, also made certain remarks. However, it should be noted that the definition of this law is a prerequisite for making and means the procedure for adopting a spatial plan. Exactly what we have discussed on the Committee on Spatial Planning and the measures that are being suggested are elements that are important for the next step. Definition of the specific characteristics plan means defining the purpose of the surface and also more precise and better implementation in cooperation with all other inspection services, especially in that part of the border, i.e. the contact zone. We definitely accept this through implementation and through certain agreements with other inspections, and the competent ministry of preparation and adoption of a plan of special features, a spatial plan that will clearly define and provide elements, assuming that other plans, such as the City of Zagreb counties' spatial plan, will also have a general and urban plan of the City of Zagreb which we have an impact on through the regulation of conditions and measures of nature protection and ultimately the issue of prior consent will definitely affect everything that is important in relation to nature protection. And after all, that's how we acted. And when it comes to adoption, it means when the changes and additions to the county's spatial plan are made, and through the discussions for GUP, we definitely had to avoid the reduction of these green areas in that area, which is now remaining under this new proposal outside the borders of nature park. All of these are enough for us to identify ourselves here for quality protection, for what real management of the protected area means, and for all other entities to play a relevant important role through the jurisdiction of their own part, to take over when it comes to illegal construction, when it comes to spatial planning and when it comes to the work of other inspection services. For all this I ask that this means that the final bill is supported and eventually accepted, and that it will definitely not be questioned by the strategic decree of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to continue to protect its natural heritage and its natural resources which one of them is here and the Nature Park "Medvednica". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26830	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? First Legislative Committee? No, I don't. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction? Yeah. Honorable representative Jerko Roshin, president of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26831	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. At the 12th session held on 4 February 2009, the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Declaration of the West of Medvednica to the Nature Park, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 5 December 2008. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 13(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as an interested working body. In its opening statement, the representative pointed out that the text of the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the Declaration of the Western part of Medvednica does not differ from the text of the draft law. The final bill proposes to reduce the total area of Nature Park "Medvednica" from 22,000 826 hectares to 17,000 938 hectares, thus excluding highly urbanised border areas from the protected area. The proposer also referred to the committee's proposal presented in the discussion in the reading process related to the contact area of the nature park. Respecting the existing status of the Medvednik area, i.e. the emergence of highly urbanised border zones with inadequate construction in the discussion on board, the adoption of this law and the exclusion of those areas from nature parks are supported. Also asked for clarification on planned areas of protection, which would make compensation for the reduction of the Nature Park "Medvednica" in the City of Zagreb area, i.e. the County. The proposer's representatives clarified that this compensation was achieved through the ecological network of the Republic of Croatia, and took the obligation to submit it to the Committee. Meanwhile, the promise has been fulfilled and we have been given the argument that compensation with other protected areas in relation to the final bill in question has been reached by a regulation declaring the environmental network "National Journal" No 109/07. In addition to the cartographic representation of the national ecological network, such an ecological network has been delivered with one graphic contribution. The impact of urbanisation on the reduction of green areas has also been discussed, and the role of spatial planning in their preservation. After the debate was held, the committee decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the Law on Amendments to the Law on the declaration of the western part of Medvednica to nature park.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26832	Thank you. And on behalf of the Committee on Environmental Protection, the Honorable Representative Mariana Petir, chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26833	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. At its 18th session, held on 4 February 2009, the Croatian Environmental Protection Committee discussed the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the Declaration of the Western part of Medvednica to the Nature Park, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 5 December 2008. The Committee on Environmental Protection, on the basis of Article 84 and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, discussed the final proposal in question as a home working body. In its opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the final proposal for a law is identical to that referred to in the first reading. The proposer concluded that the opinion and proposals were presented in the previous debate concerning the built areas in the so-called area. the contact zone, as well as the enhanced work of inspection services in the area of consistent application of the law. It is noted that compensation for reduced surfaces cannot be achieved by including the eastern part of Medvednica in the boundaries of nature parks because there are no conditions in nature protection, and that it will be achieved by declaring other protected areas in other parts of the Republic of Croatia. The inspection services will require consistent law enforcement to prevent unplanned urbanisation. It has been pointed out that preparations for the adoption of changes to the Nature Park "Medvednica" were long lasting, and that through the process of drawing up a spatial nature plan "Medvednica" opened the procedure for amending the law and that consultations, public insights and public debates were carried out, resulting in the need to reduce borders because more than 33 thousand inhabitants live in the area of the park today. Nature's borders are illogical because they intersect the settlements and accelerated urbanisation and illegal construction have permanently devastated the area. Following the opening explanation of the committee members' representatives, the debate highlighted the need for coordinated and stronger work of inspection services in order to effectively protect nature parks from further devastation and integrated protection through spatial plans and management plans, based on both the strategy and the action plan of the biological and landscape diversity of the Republic of Croatia. The debate also stressed the need to reach a consensus on the effective protection of the remaining parts of nature parks. Furthermore, it is noted that compensation for reducing the coverage of nature parks should not be implemented in a way that declares protection for protection and not for natural value on the basis of an expert assessment. It is also pointed out that it is necessary to adopt a spatial plan of Nature Park Medvednica which is the basis for the adoption of a park management plan without which there is no effective protection. At the end of the debate, it was warned that construction pressures on green zones within cities and that changes in the boundaries of nature parks should not affect the expansion of the construction zone. After the debate was held, the committee decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the Law amending the Law on the Declaration of the Western part of Medvednica to the Nature Park. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26834	Thank you. And we're moving on to a debate. They're clubs first. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative, Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26835	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. The Club of Representatives and Representatives of the SDP was abstention when voting on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Declaration of the Western part of Medvednica by nature park in the first reading, which, as everyone knows, is changing the boundaries and significantly reducing the area of Nature Park Medvednica and we will unfortunately have to vote on this proposal withheld. Why? Because, unfortunately again, the promoters of the Ministry of Culture remained cold at the argument that we from the SDP club were passionately representing compensation by this bill of law of an exclusive area of park with an area located on the eastern side of Medvednica. We believe that the explanation of the applicants who are trying to convince us that on the eastern side of Medvednica there are forests of small natural value but therefore private property, which seems to be more important than the protection of nature in Croatia. If exactly what the promoter of the Ministry of Culture claims is that experts claim that forests on the green side have a small natural and biological value for protecting the landscape value of the park that compensation in the forest area on the east side certainly brings is not sufficient reason to compensate for the exclusive area. After all, we would like to remind this occasion that the Brijuni National Park, although it has a higher level of protection from the Medvednica Nature Park, also does not deserve the status of the national park by its natural and biological value, and yet no one is and does not question the status of the national park that enjoys it. Why does the Proposer in Nature Park Medvednica show professional puritanism when it is not held in other cases. We fear not for professional reasons but for political reasons, or for the upcoming local elections. The argument that the proposer is going to compensate but not within the Park of Nature Medvednica but in some other parts of Croatia where a new protected area will be declared as part of the ecological network is absurd because in the case of Nature Park Medvednica it is a protected area of nature near the largest Croatian city of the million metropolis of Zagreb whose population certainly does not deserve to be reduced by 5,000 hectares. And this time I repeat that we at the SDP club do not object to the adoption of this law because the park space is reduced by 5 thousand hectares on the west side of the park because we are aware that the area where around 30,000 people live today is in such a state, or so devastated by building and exploiting the stone that the remaining area is under the protection regime provided for in the nature parks is still meaningless. In this sense, this bill is indeed a verification of the existing situation, or we should say a harsher recognition of the unpleasant truth by a state that has not been able to protect this extremely valuable area of nature. The SDP Club does not object to this exclusion of urbanized space from the scope of nature park because we are a socially sensitive party and as such aware that these provisions of the law will significantly facilitate the life of 30,000 residents living in the area but also facilitate the work of the Medvednica Nature Park, which is located in a rather unpleasant, frustrating, i.e. a schizophrenic situation, because according to existing law, something that is impossible to protect because of the scale of devastation. In this sense, the SDP club does not want to impose unrealistic demands and insist on keeping this area within the scope of nature parks and so cheaply politicise on this sad example because we are aware that it would make life more difficult for many of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens. However, we also believe that most of the inhabitants and residents of the area who will soon be excluded from nature park would be passionately advocated to compensate for this area by a green and intact forest area located along the eastern border of the park. Day-to-day contacts with associations and interested public assure us that most citizens and citizens of Croatia, just like us from the SDP club, believe that a line must be drawn somewhere and said not to further devast protected areas of nature whether it is nature parks or national parks. Although we understand the ambition for economic development and profit and the desire of the population living near such areas and has real estate in these areas to achieve the material benefits of the state must bear and have responsibility for protecting our most valuable resources and these are the areas of nature that are the wastes of our biological landscape diversity. Therefore, in support of this law, we see great danger and even the opening of Pandora's box according to all future demands aimed at material exploitation and thus devastation of the most valuable areas of nature as the parks of nature and national parks because the fact is that this bill represents a sad capitulation and a visionary manifestation of the unacceptable inability of the state to protect our most valuable resources and this SDP as a responsible political party cannot support and therefore we will be abstentioned on this bill. In the SDP club, we believe that the abandonment of applicants from the replacement of exclusive areas of nature parks from forest areas located east of the borders of the present nature park or forests of predominantly private property, which are located in the rabid area, is another example of the regrettable cowardice of the state administration body, the manifestation of the calculant behaviour of the strongest parties of the ruling coalition in the period ahead of the recent local elections, because the owners of the forest in question on the eastern side are voters who would fully justify including space on the eastern part of the Medvednica in the area of nature park could indicate that in the upcoming elections they do not round up those who, in the long-term and strategic interest of the state, would make such a decision and make such a law. And it is precisely the responsibility of ruling decisions, which are in the long-term and strategic interest of the state, rather than laws protecting the particular interests of a few and defending political survival. Therefore, it is particularly unacceptable to argue that giving up compensation is justified by the fact that these forests are privately owned and that Croatia has an extremely large area of nature in its entirety under some form of protection. I repeat, in this bill we are talking about a very specific nature park, a nature park whose area of this law will be reduced by nearly 5,000 hectares, representing a fifth of the existing Nature Park "Medvednica", which is not exactly a negligible area. In this regard, we believe that the position of the promoter was that, if, because of objective circumstances, it is going to change the borders of this nature park, it is doing so to compensate for the exclusive areas on the west side of the park forest area on the east side of the park. In this way, to express myself vividly, it remains a rather bitter taste in the mouth when the promoter in Pontius Pilate's manner who, as if in the area of nature park fell from the ecosystem of Mars, washes his hands from any previous, present, and we can safely establish future responsibilities for the constant reduction of nature space in Croatia, as well as the tragic poverty of biological and landscape diversity that should nevertheless be firmly protected in protected areas of nature. Now the authorities of the quasi-objective position are telling us about this case as if they had absolutely nothing to do with it, and of course no responsibility for inappropriate and inadequate construction and non-planned urbanization that the west side of the park was so irrevocably devastated. It's just such an incredibly indolent attitude of a state that refuses to recognize its responsibility, which is irresponsible and powerless to enforce the laws it makes itself. In this very incompetence of the state and failure of state institutions in the first order of construction inspection, we see the greatest danger of this law. We are afraid that the state institutions have not learned any of this sad case, so the next thing we know, we will not be surprised when in a month or a year in Parliament we will discuss changes to the borders of another nature park, most likely the Park of Nature "Vran Lake", on which things will be built golf courses or perhaps by ruling even changes, read: reduction of borders, some national park. In order not to happen today, we appeal to the authorities of the state administration to wake up from a self-satisfaction trance and finally start implementing laws that they only propose and write.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26836	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26837	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. Unfortunately, due to the systematic devastation of the western part of Medvednica over a long period of time, despite the law of established protection today, we must pass a law that changes the boundaries of the Nature Park "Medvednica". The bill changes the boundaries of Nature Park "Medvednica" by reducing its area to 17 thousand 938 hectares, and excludes highly urbanized settlements with inadequate construction. The intensive neplanska urbanisation is the most pronounced in the Prigorje zone, along the inner edge of the Nature Park "Medvednica" towards the city of Zagreb. The situation is unfortunately impossible to fix, but it is necessary to protect the remaining preserved part of the edge zone of nature park quality and efficiency. From the point of view of nature protection, as well as from the point of view of the management of the protected area, it is considered justified to exclude an area of inappropriate content from the borders of the Nature Park "Medvednica" so as to change the boundaries established by the law of the 1981 declaration. The reason for changing borders is not only devastation and illegal construction, but also the illogicalness of the borders themselves. In fact, when the Law on the Declaration of the Western part of Medvednica was passed by nature park in the total area of 22 thousand 826 hectares, its borders were established without consultation with the profession, so it happened to cross certain settlements by half. If we paint ourselves, the border of the nature park passes through people's backyard so they're half their house in the park, and half their house isn't. It is indisputable that borders should be changed, but we in the HSS believe that the area to be exempted should certainly be compensated. Compensate. We are not just for protection, but we advocate that this area that will be protected must meet the conditions of nature protection. In the first reading of this law, there were proposals to protect the eastern part of Medvednica, which contains mostly private forests and which have no such value to enter the protected category of nature park. We believe that it would be counterproductive to declare a protected space that has no special importance in terms of preserving biodiversity, because each protection brings certain restrictions to the local population, which can be compensated through its products or services, which, because of the value of the protected area, have added value and can be made more. However, if an area that cannot objectively create that added value, which is the case with the eastern part of Medvednica, therefore added value in terms of the development of eco-eco-tourism, eco-tourism, then such protection does not make sense, and the declaration of protection to the local population would make it a bear service. Today, there are 33,000 inhabitants in the nature park, which is also not in line with the principles of sustainable development, so these changes and corrections of the borders in the nature park will keep up to 7,000 inhabitants, which is also important from the aspect of the preservation of the rural landscape. Through a public debate on the spatial nature park "Medvednica" which has not yet been adopted, the State Nature Protection Institute conducted a survey of the local population and collected 750 remarks, most of which concerned exactly border changes requirements. It is certain that the opinion of the local population is also an important reason for changing the boundaries of the nature park which has not yet received its spatial plan in 27 years and thus not even a management plan, which is a prerequisite for protecting the protected area, but also developing it. We at HSS are of the view that, in the next period, a coordinated action plan should strengthen the activities of construction, but also all other inspections so that there is no inadequate, inadequate construction and unplanned urbanisation in the area of Nature Park "Medvednica". The activity of the inspection as well as the spatial planners is expected in the adoption of all spatial plans and GUPs which unfortunately have fewer green areas in their maps and more buildings and residential areas. We would not like to facilitate the expansion of the construction area by changing the borders of nature parks, as well as new changes to Zagreb's GUP on 18 December 2008. Attention should be paid to areas of protective greenery in the sub-Semen area, from the Sub-Sidence to the Sesvet, which unfortunately enables construction. For example, Kulmer’s courtyards are located in the protective greenery and there is unfortunately allowed construction, as well as in the area around the church in Remeta and the church in Vrapac, which have greenery around them as a postcard frame, i.e. in the traditional landscape. The GUP writes, quoting that "complex residential buildings with the accompanying content of an extended housing standard can be built exceptionally". It will be interesting what the landscape in Zagreb, around the mentioned churches, once traditional, will look like tomorrow. Along the street Čret, the western side of Dotrške is already cut down the protected park forest, it is not about Medvednica, but it is about an important green belt in the town of Zagreb. So the real problem is that green areas disappear in cities, so we feel that an urgent response is needed by the model “better to prevent than to heal. ” There is no adequate protection of the environment without space protection. That is why in HSS, we believe that there is no need to take new space in urban cities, but it should be more rational to use the existing and preserve the green surfaces that are the lungs of our cities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26838	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Honorable Representative Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26839	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In the light of the law in the assessment of the situation as a reason for the reduction of the area of nature park, I quote: “unsuitable and unauthorized construction, as well as intensive non-planned urbanisation in the prigorje zone along the inner edge of the Nature Park “Medvednica” towards the city of Zagreb.” The end of the quote, which so far says that despite the Internal Order Act and the prescribed process of establishing building permits in the protected area, the construction of objects and urbanisation was carried out. Looking at the area that is now exempt from protection and which is now to be legalized is obviously a long-term, even systematic violation of regulations. This reduction of the protected area in which the protection is invested and taxpayers' money is certainly given to others the right and possibility to legalise illegal procedures in nature by changes in borders and areas of protected areas. We're all witnessing a large number of buildings built on the Adriatic coast and in its nearby hinterland. We also know that most of the particularly valuable and protected areas are located in that part of the Republic of Croatia, and the adoption of such a law gives us opportunities for all others to act in this way. This could have long-term inconspicuous consequences of both biodiversity and landscape diversity, the sustainable development of our tourism as well as the perceptions of Croatia as a destination with untouchable nature and an environmentally-oriented future member of the European Union. In practice in the European Union countries, the practice is to protect at least 15% of the total state territory, and we are reducing our 10%. And not only that, we're creating a negative precedent. We're sending a very ugly political message. Somewhere like Medvednica in the capital of Croatia, someone can do anything, and somewhere the boggers will shamelessly tear down built cottages or houses, i.e. that inappropriate and unauthorized construction. The fundamental question is what it is, I quote again the legislator of the law inappropriate and inadequate construction and intensive non-planned urbanisation on Medvednica. From the qualifications used, it turns out that there was all the guilt and guilt of the citizens and the guilt of the public service. I am interested and ask the answer now that I have not already received it at first reading the law, whether these cottages, houses and villas for rent on Medvednica in the area of nature park were built illegally without a building permit or legally with a building permit. If they were built illegally, who was it, and why was he closing his eyes in front of that? If they are built legally with a building permit then it is a matter of wild construction with a sin of administration, which is by issuing building permits, but by being inextricable or conscious of the failure of certain professional activities that leads to the implementation solutions of construction facilities in the space. So, wild construction is legal but its product in space can be catastrophic. It does not fit the space according to the criteria of the location of the accommodation, the gauge, the material used, the aesthetic appearance and the like. Many bear fairies are just like that. If they were built legally with a building permit that should not have been issued or should not have been issued for at least a part of the building of a special villa that certainly does not fit the traditional environment with aesthetic appearance we have all the responsible persons from the state administration signed on the papers. Why did they do that, i.e. signed the permits. Who was protecting them? Why? Did any of them answer for that? Is there any action against them at all? Houses aren't birds. Each has its own buried foundation, its name and last name, address, license number, the person who issued the permit with or without rights. I bet most of them were built in the years of independent Croatia, so we can't blame socialism for that. Of course, there were certain forms of economic activity and housing in the area of nature parks before the declaration. It's probably in '81. the established border of nature park was unrealistic, wrong without the necessary analysis and consultation with the profession. But the main function of nature park is to protect the natural area from greater, further concentrations of economic activity or excessive housing, and we allowed it to create a single work size of Koprivnica. It is clear that this law solves the final act, repairs the damage done. But surely we will not be clapped by those with whom we have solved the same final act or we will be dealing with the baggers. The extent of the damage done is enormous. More than 30,000 inhabitants live in this protected area of nature park to date. There are streets, buildings, neighborhoods where there is no longer a nature that the nature supervisor of the “Medvednica” Nature Park should protect. The only question is, was that how it was supposed to be? Who is responsible for the reduction, further reduction of green areas and forests for reduced air quality and permanent destruction of landscapes. He's here on the part of immature democracy syndrome. Countries with yet underdeveloped institutions of environmental protection and spatial regulation, i.e. the failure of the rule of law. Badave gives us the best laws if they're not practically implemented. In fact, the public is already quite sensitive to environmental problems, but the debate and reaction based on harmful influences and actions from those who are paid to control and prevent them are usually too late when the procedure in the area with negative influence has arisen. Such behaviour in the environment can be, for example, when picking mushrooms, so we wait for them to pop up and then go for them, but not in investment construction procedures with thousands of tons of concrete. We can't wait and watch them grow, build sometimes for years and decades, not react, and eventually cover ourselves with ashes on the head, reconcile with the final act and with all its negative consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26840	Thank you. Well, we have another club. Let's go, Kresso, the esteemed representative of Kresimir Gulic, on behalf of the HDZ club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26841	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I'll be as short as I can, the game's ours, and then we'll hurry up a little bit. But that doesn't mean you shouldn't say a few words. And what I want to say at the beginning of the Croatian Democratic Community club will in any case support the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Declaration of the Western Part of Medvednica Park of Nature. The park of nature “Medvednica” was declared in '81. A year. I think it is also important to say that there were about 20,000 people living in Nature Park. And that line wasn't as real as my colleague Vincey said. So I think it's the beginning of the problem, because if it were then thought, that most of the construction area of Zagreb and the municipalities that were on the Zagorje side don't put them within the construction area, I don't think they would have such problems today. So I think the problems started in '81. The year when the unreal majority of the building area is in the nature park which is now here with this final bill we'll be evicting from the park already was in the park. And who's to blame? Well, let's not go looking for the culprit now, but we need to be aware that spatial plans in cities and municipalities mean bringing units of local self-government. So we're the ones who sort of determine the boundaries of the construction area, normally finally with the consent of the county and the ministry and so on. But what I have to say and point out is that the borders and the devastation of the park didn't happen on the Zagorje side. Gentlemen, I live in a park on the Zagorje side and I must say that it did not happen on the Zagorje side, it happened on the Zagreb side. So it's my responsibility that local self-government has, because when we do spatial plans, we have to make sure that the devastation doesn't happen, to just protect that landscape if it's in our best interest. So here, what are the shortcomings of existing borders? The current borders include an urban zone along the edge of the park that lost its natural values, and I say it lost them already in '81. In Nature Park Medvednica I think it is a specific park because it has over 33 inhabitants, so 35 thousand people, when we know that we have 11 parks in Croatia, means in these other 10 parks you live somewhere around 3 to 4 thousand inhabitants, and in the Nature Park Medvednica, 35 thousand inhabitants live in so that it is impossible and monitoring and the work of the supervisory service in the public institution of the nature park is impossible to follow here such construction as it was. The settlements were naturally cut at half of the mentioned borders, so you had the Nature Protection Act on one side of the road, so on the other side of the road, the owner had to have a plot 20% bigger than the one on the other side of the road, which was so far not logical. We had unfortunately in the park in the '80s issued construction permits, which I think is the same thing, here's a failure of that time that you have gas stations in the park, that you have concrete stations in the park. I mean, I don't understand who gave them the building permits. Here, public institutions, because of their legal obligations, are forced to address municipal problems of borderline urban areas that do not fall within the domain of nature protection, are not in line with the objectives for which the institution is established. Such densely populated areas have generated the need to issue large numbers of solutions from the domain of nature protection, especially the conditions of nature protection and burden the work of management and protection of nature and inspection services. In this way, the inhabitants of the park are placed in an unequal position in one way. What positive consequences will happen by changing the boundaries of nature parks? So what's important to say is that from the protected area of the existing nature park, inappropriate facilities of intensive urbanized building areas will be thrown out, burdened with inappropriate construction, and will be transferred by a solution to municipal problems to the state, meaning from a state-run nature park institution to a local level, meaning municipalities and cities. The regime of using space in settlements that are currently, so in the nature park will no longer be unnaturally doubled given the border of nature park that passes, as I said just before, along the road. It will cease to be valid for the existing conditions of construction and arrangement of the space prescribed for the nature park, meaning the size of the plot and so on. In this area, citizens will be simplified the process of obtaining permits for construction and other activities, and detailed conditions of construction and arrangement of civil areas will be regulated by the spatial plans of the lower order, meaning county, city and municipal. And a unique nature management regime for the natural mass of Medvedniks will be provided. Well, I think what's already said here, what's important is that the Ministry of Culture has reported public and organised public insights, and in the proposal to amend the Nature Park Medvednica and presented cartographic documentation. Public insight was also held in Zagreb, both in Lower Stubica and in Bistra and most of the objections made during public insight were accepted and accepted. Here, due to all this, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the Final Bill on Amendments to the Law on the Declaration of the Western Nature Park Medvednica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26842	Thank you. It would end today's session. We'll be back tomorrow morning at 9.30. The first was announced for the debate by the distinguished representative Gordan Maras, then the distinguished representative Zdenko Franic, and then so in turn that someone would come in line. Have a nice and pleasant night.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26843	Thank you very much, Mr. Lesar. Don't abuse. You have no right to talk about it now. You can say that when you talk about it. This is a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I gave it to you because I'm democratic, so I give it to everyone. But don't abuse it. Please, nice. And then we'll wonder why we'll be working next week. We'll work Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday. And tonight we'll be working late. Because from 50 and a few points of the agenda, we're just one 15, 16 past. And we've been through it for all sorts of reasons that we talked about the last time. And if we're saying that in principle or in general we're going to work up to seven hours, that doesn't mean it's the Bible. You can work longer if you need to. And if we do that every minute we answer for something, then we're gonna work, I don't know how much. Please, we're going to be going past seven hours tonight, I don't know how long, because we're behind on the agenda. We keep supplementing the dots, and we're not done announcing them. Therefore, gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have to finish our part of the job. Regardless of whether he has opinions like this or not, it is the same in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Be assured that the Rules of Procedure will not be harmed. We cross and continue with the agenda point Final draft law amending the Law on the Declaration of the Western part of Medvednica Park Nature. We have a few more discussions and we'll continue with them. The first is Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26844	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, let me join your debate. I suggest we work Mondays, not just on Tuesdays. If the whole of Croatia works from Monday to Friday, so can we. Here's a few words about this law. We had already had a debate in the seventh month it seems to me in the first reading of this law, and what then caused a very great deal of interest and debate many MPs had discussed and all more or less sought the same, to compensate for one part that would reduce nature park with the other part, on the other part of Medvednica, i.e. on the Zelinska side. Unfortunately, here's from yesterday's opening statement, and this proposal shows that it wasn't done myself in this situation as well as then saying that I won't support the amendments to this law for a few simple reasons that I'm about to repeat. First, I was talking about Medvednica as a representative from Zagreb and as a child of this city, as the lungs of the city and something that is certainly on the heart of the Zagreb people. This is, in my opinion, an operation in the lungs of that city that will once change the law will reduce the area of the nature park by almost 25%, i.e. 5 thousand hectares from 22 thousand 800 hectares to 17 thousand 900 hectares. I simply cannot be satisfied with the fact that it may be compensated by a surface somewhere else in Croatia, which the promoter will say is constantly increasing the number of areas protected by some form of category of nature protection. The fact is that today, that is, when we adopt this law 5 thousand hectares, it means 25% of the surface area of nature park. I can't accept it, and even with all the arguments we've heard, and that's that in the last 20, 30 years, if there's been a problem there that's created a lot of people and settled down, it's about 30 thousand people, their problem has to be solved, but if there was a good will by the government, I believe it could have been compensated superficially from the Green Side. What we need to point out, which is that Croatia is lagging behind the European standards it protects, means categories of protection. Nature Park is just one of six categories of protection and it's one of the weaker fifth of six. If they were ranked as important. And it's not such a big category of protection because in that park of nature, for example, so far, it's possible. Hunting, having quarryes, working to cut down forests, etc. When we look at the average in Croatia, yesterday the secretary of state spoke 12% of the territory. I found one coming from the State Nature Protection Department where it's 8.7%. This percentage may have increased to 12 in the past but the fact is that some minimum in the European Union is 15% and that Croatia is lagging behind on nature protection for European standards and this average is rising to 20% in Europe. So we're far behind, and this certainly isn't a trend to reduce the level of surfaces that we're going to protect by one law even by 5,000 acres. On the other hand, I believe that this amendment of the law will certainly please not only these people who need to be solved by their problem that has settled there but will create certain new zones that will benefit because it is a very attractive part of the city and the area that is likely to be exploited by construction. There will be new houses, and very easily and attractively will be sold that space that we are resuscitating today or that we extract from the protected area, it will no longer be a nature park and it will be able to be built there and in some way enter Medvednica even deeper. What I think is not good is what we got in the material, and I've already noticed before, this map of 1:25000 is very difficult to analyze there, so let's just say it so that the villages that were in the city of Zagreb and what else of that attractive land will be attached to it, so they're not because you can't exactly make a border around the houses. There's probably still a part of the land that I can say later to change purpose and put into building land and later exploit and build the part that maybe shouldn't have. Here, in the end I won't talk much because we've already been through it in the first debate. I will not support this law because I am not satisfied that we are going against the standards that have been applied in the European Union to reduce 5,000 hectares and could be compensated on the second part of the Medvednica, regardless of the comment of the promoter yesterday who said that this was not possible because there are many private owners, etc. These were more or less of a less valuable forest. If the state had shown initiative and interest, it could have been resolved and then of course we would have so-called. Wine-win situation where we solve people's problem on the one hand and on the other hand we don't reduce nature park. This is why my support for this law will not be obtained because I believe that only one move of feathers reduces 25% of what I said and paraphrased the lungs of the city of Zagreb cannot get any support from any representative whose heart is the Medvednica which is a treasure that very rare cities and metropolis in Europe have at all can afford and if we already have that wealth, then we do not need it like this to say brutally and change it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26845	Thank you. It's Mr. Zdenko Franic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26846	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Recently, I had the opportunity to gain insight into one of the World Bank's reports relating to the state of space in the Republic of Croatia that around 2030 will be owned by Croatian citizens and Croatian states only about 30% of Croatian territory and this mainly refers to areas of large cities and national parks and nature parks. Here we see that they were quite optimistic because here we are with one move of feathers and tomorrow by voting this law in Parliament, which I have no doubt at all for 25% to lift the surface of Medvednica Nature Park. The arguments that the areas of nature parks or national parks will increase for that area elsewhere in some other areas of Croatia do not exactly stand because it did so to say that the ministry has said that you see that we see it, so now we are also reducing this urban construction and illegal construction of the devastated area of the ministry and the government would gain credibility, but this is all futur. Unfortunately, the devastation of Croatian space is terrible. The pressure of the construction mob is simply unsustainable. We are witnessing reduction of surfaces, green areas, for example in Split on Marjan, then Park in Pantana, Ornitological Reserve where there were suddenly nickeled plastics and greenhouses on the very edge, protected zones of pressure on Neretva, Vransko lake etc. And the citizens of Zagreb breathe here in Zagreb, they have no lungs anywhere on Neretva, Gorski kotar or anywhere else and not near their home town. The arguments that you cannot compensate at least partially for the area on the northern green side are absurd. The arguments are for a guy that the forest isn't the special quality. So what? Well, these are trias and yura deposits, the crickets they are, the forest there, and it can't be what quality it is, but the fact is it's intact and it still serves its function as the city's lungs. Interestingly, the second argument is that it is mostly private forests and private properties, and it is interesting that this constitutional category did not prevent this House when we passed the Golf Act and which allows the outreach of large complexes of private ownership for the purpose of greater interest i.e. building a golf course. The question arises whether these 5,000 acres that we are now about to surrender to large capital, whether golf courses are going to be built there too, and the remains of green surfaces that will remain in these decomposed areas. Unfortunately, the management of the Croatian space went downhill in the beginnings of conversion and privatisation when the Urbanist Institute of the Republic of Croatia was as a state institution that cared for the Croatian space, simply deleted from public institutes was privatized and from the once respectable institution remained remains of the remains. It is rare to find an example of a country in our rope, or even a wider environment that does not have a state institution that manages its own space as the most important resource it even owns. All honours to the Ministry of Construction and Business Planning, but they are a ministry, they are a administrative organisation, not an professional, scientific institution dealing with spatial planning problems. The country that tolerates it and which actually initiated it can only be masochistic, crazy or kletocratian to give space to large capital. Yet our predecessors who lived in these places, the old Romans knew very well the values of the Bear, they worshipped her as some sort of deity. And they certainly knew how to master these favours, and did not think of wild building on the slopes, nor did God give it to the bearer herself. So, Mr. Secretary of State, I'll be free to read a quote from the beautiful book of Panon that your ministry co-financed. It's a trip to the Roman Family Medvednica: "The forest strawberries and raspberries were intoxicated. The smell of forest shadows under the hat of fragrant pears, and with the scents and the lahor, now from this corner, now from that corner, warm, now fresh, but always joyful and friendly forest spoke, whispered, crackled, whispered, this story was joined by sounds of scissors and bodies that were accelerated through leaves and grass, titrated by birds. Those even cadences would get some loud and concealing the cry of predatory birds. They would come behind or above the green covers that were titrated with gold in the sun. The beams were penetrating through that shiny nettle. All that life dancing, shaking, calling, deeper, deeper into the forest world. It's inconceivable how many lives have been poured into such a tiny space as those that involve the sense of a human being in the woods.". And it's in the woods whether it's on this Zagreb side and on the green side, the forest we're about to devastate its remains, the remains, the green areas that are left. Exposures, as I said, to large capital, and to citizens of Zagreb who are the wave for the expansion of this unique treasure that have to be exposed to further pollution and lower air quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26847	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Well, I'm sorry, there's only one correction. Excuse me. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26848	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, I must correct the incorrect allegations of Mr., fellow Franic, who said that with one feather, that by one move the feathers said had changed the borders. I'd just say, Mr. Franic, I don't know if you know it's '81. the years when the spatial was brought, when the boundaries of the nature park were established that it was just then with one feather, that no one was asked what kind of boundaries they were today, and for these changes to the boundaries of the nature park, I think you are aware that the Ministry of Culture has taken everything, i.e. Public insight has been made, both in Bistra and Zagreb and in Stubica, and all the comments made by the citizens who were on this public insight have been included in this amendment. And I must tell you that citizens on the Zagorje side today and on this Zagreb side are very happy to finally change the borders. And what I still have to say is, what you said to the birds' cricket, the smell of wild strawberries still feels very, very good about us on the Zagorje side.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26849	Thank you. Mr. Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26850	Thank you, Mr. President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. So this reduction of 5 thousand hectares of Medvednica Nature Park and by 25%, the park will be smaller, not only is the capitulation of the rule of law that is not only tied to this current government so there is no confusion at the same time and something worse. It opens up opportunities for further cases of reduction of other protected areas, nature parks, national parks and others. And when it's said that we're reducing this area of Nature Park Medvednica because of the devastation, the unplanned construction, we'll agree. It really was the case in the last 20, 25 years. What wasn't supposed to happen happened. But to be called that in 1981 when the Nature Park Act was passed, that there were no these standards, that there was no public insight, which means, indeed, it was then, that means that any nature park or national park, we can reduce under that reasoning because they were all created 10, 20 or 30 years ago. And then there was, I suppose, a procedure. No one, probably didn't come up with the idea of drawing boundaries that way, just like that. But probably the standards that exist today weren't so precise at the time. So we can also expect interested entities to come forward, to cut the surface of Nature Park, say, Kopachi's ass. I already know who might ask that for 40 or 50% Nature Park Kopački rit is reduced and would have had that justification, because indeed in certain areas, the edges of that park were made a devastion. Not in this way, but through agricultural production and the like. Or, for example, the Park of Nature “Lonjsko polje” or let us not doubt that around national parks on the Adriatic Sea there would be interested, primarily large capital that would be very happy to build marinas, hotels or not. We have open speeches here and a reduction of the surface of Nature Park “Vransko jezero” is announced. Also because of some other content. We often swear when we talk about these topics in the Croatian Parliament in order to preserve natural resources, and then we speak with the right that Croatia is indeed a beautiful country, that we have a whole series of natural resources. The Adriatic Sea is certainly one of the most beautiful seas, for us the most beautiful sea and we speak rightly. However, these discussions should support the same day as we talk here in the Croatian Parliament about Croatia's economic development strategies, economic strategies, energy development strategies and the like. And then they'd see how contradictory we are, because where would those miles of railway lines that were spoken of yesterday, hundreds of kilometers of highways, then the parallel roads along those highways, and then the thermal power plants on coal, then the hotels, hotel complexes, and marinas, and those 50 golf courses we're talking about should be built. So where do we build it if we swear to protect our natural values first? Croatia has that 56,000 km2, no 560,000 would say unfortunately and there are 4 and a half million inhabitants. And that's how much we slave to this megalomania. The more steel and concrete the project is somehow more valuable and expensive. These are the remaining plantings from some of the past times that are present regardless of party belongings and are dominated by this House. And this is how we like to say that protecting nature is on our hearts. But when that protection of nature conflicts with how little economic interest that economic interest will overcome what we like to point out is our priority. It will be particularly interesting to see, when I say interestingly, perhaps it is not the right word, that is, we will look at this time of crisis that is going to occur, which will not be short-lived because members of the ruling party themselves say it will last at least ten years. And how this will reflect on the system of nature and the environment. Because at the same time, there is likely to be a reduction in the pressure on the environment, we will give up a whole series of infrastructure projects, and that may be some kind of good side of the crisis. This is how I have information from Croatian Waters, Croatian waters cannot be entrusted on the international market to finance that famous economic failure and ecologically harmful channel of Danube – Sava. There will be nothing from the river River – Zagreb railway. There will probably be a drop in pressure on concreteisation and apartmentisation of the Croatian coast. But at the same time, the dangers that this crisis will bring with it and what the Government would have to take into account in particular, which is probably an increase in the illegal construction that we are currently facing on this particular example, regardless of whether it is socially illegal construction or entrepreneurial illegal construction. Also, there will be a reduction in investment in nature protection, and we are hearing from entrepreneurs now that one of the first measures the government should introduce, which is the release, their release from paying for the ecological rent. The government has not yet met them in that direction and that's good. But we'll see if that rent is paid and in what amount, with the second question being how that money is spent. So we all like to say that nature protection is nice to us, that it's kind of nice to us. But when she faces the interests of large capital, when it conflicts with interests in the upcoming elections, she always loses. And because of that, and when we speak specifically of this bill on the reduction of the area of Nature Park “Medvednica” I am for reduction but with that famous compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26851	Thank you. At 9.55 p.m. last time we checked in. We have a replica, Mr. Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26852	Dear fellow Pancic, you have correctly noticed that this is about the capitulation of the rule of law before large capital. But unfortunately, it also seems to be the capitulation of this House of Highs before large capital because yesterday we had the opportunity to hear the debate on behalf of the ruling coalition's clubs asking the inspection services to follow the law. Well, they're a legal state institute, they have to do their job without us Parliamentarians and the Assembly asking them to do their job and oversee the situation of wild construction. Furthermore, we had heard from fellow Gulic who said that the devastation on the Zagorje side did not occur. It was said in a debate on behalf of the club, and now you say that birds' cricket can be heard from the Zagorje side. Or a colleague of Pancic's, that's absurd. Then let the protection spread to that side when it's already preserved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26853	Mr. Pancic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26854	My colleague Franic, just before you read that excerpt from the book, I can tell you that the Panon died a long time ago, because if he hadn't died, he probably would have seen how today the masters of this area of torment would have died. The problem, the main problem is what the government says here's what happened. We didn't take care of it. The state institutions didn't do their job, but that's what we're gonna do. But from now on, we hope that state institutions, inspectors, will accept their jobs. Well, he won't. Of course, this line that we have now withdrawn is only a question of when it will be exceeded. I'm very interested in what's going to happen to that first person, regardless of who it was, whether it was SDP, HDZ or someone else. What happens to him when he crosses that line and says, "Here I am going to build a new villa?" Knowing from experience, nothing will happen to him. Best example of what could happen to Sljemen in about 20, 30 or 40 years, we have an example of Marjan forest in Split. As a child when I came to Split, Marjan was a concept. Now that I'm passing Marjan, I see more houses than trees. That's how things are now, and the Bear is on that path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26855	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Kresimir Gulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26856	Well, I have to correct a fellow Pancic who said that there was a state of law capitulation. I completely disagree with that, and that's not true. What I said last night, I repeat today. In '81, Mr. Pancic, 20,000 inhabitants had already lived in a park of nature. Why '81? Whoever drew the boundaries didn't make the boundaries where they were supposed to be some kind of edge of the forest and so on. And not that the borders were within the settlement, that they share these borders today through the road, one on the left has the right to build like this, those on the other right have such, are special conditions. So the capitulation was on me in '81, not today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26857	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26858	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, I agree with each other, so it's '81. when cartoon boundaries are done in a part of it may be awkward, but if it wasn't, maybe at the place of the Red Landing, we'd have urban villas. So it's good that a certain degree of protection happened then. And what I said in the first debate, I also now support and there is no man who will not support it, so to make life easier for people living in the area of nature park today, and tomorrow they will not live to solve their existential problems. War, war migration, problem of illegal construction, problem of control and illegal construction, i.e. means different life stories and fates, as well as the problem of those people who lived there before the announcement of Nature Park Medvednica should somehow come to a solution and should allow those people to live normally and in this sense I think there are no representatives in this assembly who do not support it and who does not think in this way. But what we have suggested is precisely because we do not want to derivate that culture and the natural heritage that we have is to replace the 5,000 acres of that forest in the eastern part. And it was a taste of debate both mine and in the first, so in the first reading, and I was hoping that at least part of those, let's say our proposals that came here from the ranks of SDP representatives would be adopted. Our percentage, so this more restrictive nature protection is somewhere below 12%, the minimum that the European Union prescribes is 15%, and the average at European Union level is 20%. There are now two classifications. It's a classification on the national-environmental network, that's more than that. But I am talking about this more conservative degree of protection. We too must strive to reach this European standard, meaning that we are declaring that, by a higher degree of protection, we are covering those areas that may not be today, and they have potential and on this trail is our suggestion that 5,000 squares enter the nature park on the eastern side of Medvednica. Otherwise, the public debate lasts for 5.6 years, meaning on the eastern side of Medvednica and there were no obstacles that you placed at least 1000 squares on that eastern side of Medvednica in the nature park. So that would be some kind of a sign of goodwill, that would be a sign of where we take something and give it, means that in some way we compensate the park of nature because it's not good to leave the public, and also in some way it's a practice to take a park of nature without being compensated anywhere. In that sense, even if you had proposed certain changes and a certain increase in nature park in the rest of Croatia and that we were also watching in the package, we would have supported this proposal, but since it was missing, since it was missing, I don't know why. Sometimes I feel like we're talking about the woods, so let's just say that the trees are talking about the woods. So there is no reason that you have at least respected one part of these remarks and at least 1000 hectares, not 5,000 acres as a sign of goodwill, as a sign that we will not derivate our protected landscapes declared by nature park, or put in that nature park. And for these reasons, for reasons to make life easier for people in the area where he was difficult because they lived in a nature park, but because we haven't compensated that part on the eastern side of the Medvednica, at least with a symbolic gesture of goodwill, we, and myself personally, will be restrained for this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26859	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first is Mr. Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26860	My colleague, we'll agree that 20,000 people are too much inside the park and that's why the reduction. So it's not at all questionable that too many people suddenly found themselves inside the nature park. With that being since '81. And until today, there's been an expansion of this expansion of people inside the park, but it doesn't matter. But to avoid confusion because it is often repeated as an argument that the surface of other parks of nature or national parks should be reduced, which is the claim that the nature protection system excludes the possibility of people living in that area, which is simply not true. It means the system of protection, whether nature parks or national parks, also enables normal lives of people within their borders. So they can live, they can work, only these economic activities have certain limitations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26861	Answer Mr. Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26862	So I agree with you, my colleague Pancic, that I think it is also ongoing and that there is an ongoing debate on the declaration of nature park Neretva, so where is the same problem about the inadequacy of informing citizens who live on the opportunities offered also in the nature park itself. Of course, the illogicalities that are part of the historical heritage need to be corrected, but what is repeatedly repeated is that we must not derrogate, that we must not go towards reducing the surfaces and not offer an alternative. We are reducing protected areas and we are not offering alternative protected areas. That principle is simply not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26863	Thank you. Replica Mr. Kresimir Gulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26864	Well, here's a replica of my colleague Bernardic, who also mentioned compensation in previous discussions. I'm asking you, is compensation to make up for something or because it's worth something? Are we going to compensate the eastern side of the Bear just to compensate these five grand we've taken now? Well, I don't think there's any reason to ask for compensation if that forest isn't worth it and it doesn't have a purpose. In any case, I'd like to say that whoever increased the boundaries of the construction area within the nature park. Well, gentlemen, they've increased local self-government units. So we, with our spatial plans and documents, we, within the boundaries of the building area, increased the construction area and then what happened to us happened to us. And I'm saying from these 15,000 residents of '81. To date, 13,000 has been increased in the City of Zagreb and only 2 thousand for the Zagorje side. Well, then you'd better figure out who was doing the devastation of nature parks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26865	Answer Mr. Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26866	Dear Representative Gulić, I did not talk about who was doing the devastation, but I was talking about the need to protect people who have a variety of circumstances, the acquisition of war, the war migrations came to the Zagreb area, settled down, made their houses and have their families, and it is necessary to enable these people to live a normal life. You know it as well as we do in Zagreb on our Zagreb side. But when you talk about compensation, I can't get the impression that I don't know if maybe you didn't understand. So the story is about that, you said there's land being added somewhere, so maybe it's but it's not worth it. The woods are worth it. And that's the value I think we don't need to argue about and about which we all have the same opinion, if not the same, that the forest is worth it. And it's not a good principle, you take it somewhere, you don't give it. And that principle is bad. So when you take somewhere you have to offer an alternative and you have to compensate for a certain part elsewhere. Why? Because this is in line with what we as a candidate country for the European Union have drawn in line with the direction we are going, and the direction is 20% of the average of the protected areas at European Union level. So tomorrow in Croatia. And that's the direction we just have to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26867	And the replica of Mr. Vlatko Podnar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26868	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Bernardic, when you talk about the value of the forest, surely the forest is worth the same regardless of property. However, the problem here is that these private forests are probably not managed according to the Law on Forests, i.e. the Regulation on regulated forests, and the other problem is that, under the Nature Protection Act, compensation must be made in the event of a restriction on the right of management. So, for this reason, it probably didn't spread that part of nature's park to private forests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26869	Answer Mr. Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26870	A fellow Podnar in the part where you gave your expert argument, of course there are certain justifications. What's important is to say those commercials that I can see on television from certain ministries, the tree is first. I think it should be a pattern of 'let's say our behaviour as citizens of the Republic of Croatia, since we are also witnesses not only to get in the hot summer months of a large amount of our forests in the coastal area above and that is something that is not good and where together we should work more to protect this natural heritage that God has given us. And the other thing is that the forests are the wealth of Croatia. Croatia has 83 inhabitants per square mile. So one of the less populated states and the only big resource we have is that natural resource and we have to start acting like good masters.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26871	Thank you. And finally Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26872	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. Yesterday I spoke on behalf of the Committee on Space Planning, today I would like to say a few words on my own behalf. In the first place, I would like to support the proposal to amend the borders. For reasons not to make the borders less protected space smaller, but as a support to one hypocrite that lasts in which we protect something, and at the same time we allow things to happen the way they do. I think things should be said the way they are and tried to bring them into a real framework with them no matter how favourable or unfavourable they were. But I must also say that I agree especially with my colleague Franic and all his speeches on the importance of protecting space, as I do. I can agree with his quote he read about the smell and everything that happens on Sljemen, on Medvednica in general, because I also personally experienced all these smells and I think it's worth keeping such a single space on an ever greater surface. But four years ago, at this time, I was the president of the government's council on state spatial planning and one of the fundamental activities of advice and desire and the struggle to face some problems was the battle against illegal construction. In order not to talk abstractly about illegal construction, we visited Croatia where we arrived at 4 years. Among other things, we were on Medvednica, and we saw Kozari hip and all that together, and we really faced one picture that was inappropriate for a Medvednica's ambience, and in the end it was inappropriate for the setting of one of the capitals of a state, a Suburg that existed there. And our reaction was very strong. We have made it clear that such a practice cannot be supported and that the battle with illegal construction is being fought for a number of reasons. One reason is the very legality of building to respect the laws of this country as much as possible. So, let's try to follow the laws. And secondly, to objectively preserve something that is extremely valuable and that is Medvednica, at least the part that we thought was protected. However, the Zagreb mayor's reaction was such as she said it was social cases and not large capital. That it is social cases that need to be protected because other means of securing their own roof over their heads and that it will personally advocate that all these illegally built buildings are in some way preserved by legalization. Of course, it hasn't happened until today. It can't even happen so legalized. But with this I want to tell you that my personal direction and everyone else who is here on my side at least the room is preserved as much as possible and not to go into one hypocrisy that just doesn't stand. In this case, it is practically just a regulation of the situation as it is on the ground that what is valuable would be preserved and what is not. In order for an urban environment to be better regulated and not to be subject to the rules of the game in which the elements of space protection and the elements of necessary urbanisation are mixed. A fellow Pancic mentioned Marjan. Of course, I know more about Marjan and I have experienced him much earlier than Medvednica and Sljema, and of course I personally remember a time when there was not so much construction on Marjan. Of course, I do not return at the time of the arrival of the Croats on the Adriatic when.../The speaker does not understand./... because society is developing and so is being built. But I can tell you that Marjan is largely devastated and has fallen into the problem of overlapping the zone of protection and the area that, as a general plan, is allowed to be built. So in one space, Marjana had surfaces and parcels that were with two different criteria, which were legally based criteria treated, and that all of this was based on the 78th plan from famous general villas and forwards, and that only now, by a new general plan, such a hypocrisy or such a single misunderstanding was corrected. So we remain behind the fact that we need to keep the landscape, that we need to increase the surface under protection, that we need to increase the green surfaces and that they are not protected but are only as good as green surfaces but that what you told the emperor once is naked, what is dressed. And as things stand, I think this law has tried to regulate it in the only real way. And how much we agree with the need to make that happen, we pay the bills of some who were before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26873	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first is Mr. Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26874	Dear colleague, you talked about the necessity of legalization of illegal construction when you mentioned in the context of the mayor of Zagreb that it was about social cases and then you mentioned large capital. Look, the intensity is that people who have moved to Zagreb for various reasons over the decades, who have built their houses and founded their families and certain buildings that they have built illegally. Why? Because at this point they did not have because, especially in the 1990s, it was not easy to build a house and it was easy for people to live somewhere, there are many such areas in the city of Zagreb and also in Croatia. And it is necessary that we do not drive these people out of our homes, that they keep their homes and that is why legalization and certain illegal construction by a certain date will simply become necessary in Croatia because otherwise we will send a message to people you must from your homes because your houses are not legal and we will tear them down. And that principle is not good, and all we're doing on that trail is protecting citizens who live with their families in their homes that they built under these or those circumstances under difficult or less difficult conditions. But the fact is that there was adequate surveillance at the time, the fact is that there was an easier way to get to building permits and build to make these people do it for sure. But since it is not so we must not send a message now you will have to move out of your houses, we will tear down your houses because it is simply not good and therefore we advocate to protect those who really have no place to go and these are in Croatia and also in the city of Zagreb a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26875	Thank you. Mr. Jerko Roshin's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26876	Thanks, buddy. I see your replica as a confirmation of what I said. In fact, I've found that the thesis that's said to be doing this in order to benefit from large capital is not because that space is bigger than socially endangered people and that's why I'm saying that it's not right for large capital. And as for the social building category, I understand. Many at that time could not come to an apartment based on a list of work tips and others, so they built an illegal building over the weekend to reach a roof over their heads. I totally understand that. We'd have for blocks and cement and we'd have nothing more. However, a city like Zagreb knows the frequency and amount of arrivals in the city and reception of people who come to the city looking for some of their better solutions had to be organised and urbanized. Therefore, what was happening on the side of Kozari did not happen as a deliberate action but as an action of every individual for which the city was tolerated. And I'm not going in, and I don't want to get into the discussion of it. I have only remained in the debate within the limits of reasoning and logic why one hypocrisy or one condition should be registered and told as it is. And whether it will be legalized, when it will be legalized. Is that also a promise that cannot be fulfilled will show time and whether by plan it should in some way react to it? So, I thank you for coming in as a confirmation of mine, at least that's how I see it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26877	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26878	Thank you. As far as illegal construction is concerned, it seems to me that basic hypocrisy stems from what the law selectively applies and when we apply it. I mean, nobody's up for illegal construction, but the fact is that there are different guys who are talking about illegal construction here, that you have this so-called. the social lawless construction of those who have been threatened and who have sought a roof over their heads but there is also the illegal construction of a villa of multimillionaires, rich people, etc. It would be a good one to make an analysis of who has collapsed when the whole problem that it has been provoking is, in the perception of citizens, that it does not collapse, but that it collapses others and does not collapse others. Why these and not those? These are the constant problems in Dalmatia that have arisen. And that's the problem. The hypocrisy of me comes from that if a man is not equal under the law, if the law applies to one another, he does not apply to another. Or, or we take it all down, or we legalize it all, or I don't know what we do, or from now on, let's stick to the law that's going to be the same for everyone, but you can't bring each other down and you can't, and neither of us is illegal. And it's not all the same to which the sea falls, it has to be said. As far as Marjana is concerned, when it comes to Marjan and in the 1970s, we can go backwards, etc., but we would really be interested in what has happened since the Croatian state existed and whether something happened in the mandate of this city government in Split right now, re-purpose the space for allowing residential construction where it was inside Marjan Forest Park, where it was not allowed before and which administrative changes happened, through which individuals were rich overnight. Bought one, sold ten, because space was re-purposed or housing was made possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26879	Thank you. Mr. Jerko Roshin's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26880	Mr. President, it can easily be that there is something wrong with me because a lot of what is said on that side I have to agree, because the issue of illegal construction is absolutely a big problem, but I have the impression that a debate from Medvednica is walking towards illegal construction rather than this. Of course for Split that I can answer because I know him well, I actually know him better than Marin because I'm a little older than he is, so I've had a longer chance to participate in this, and illegal construction is certainly something that is inappropriate. But what my colleague Jurevic is talking about are fairies and fairies. This is one of the categories in which I was in my discussions when I was a representative of the government council and in the newspaper, the smaller problem of illegal construction, but the bigger problem of construction that is covered with all the papers and not suitable space. It's the thesis that I said at first, and we're going to make it easy with illegal construction, because we can legally regulate it. But who made a mistake in granting consent to some inappropriate buildings, that's a big problem. However, one more thing is very important, and before I said, the laws many of ours are good, we often do not. But in this practice people work different profiles, party-defined, party-defined. And we come up with a category of professionalism, conscience and ethics. And that's not the subject of this debate here. But certainly Marine, whenever we need to, we'll meet, we can talk about this, and some of those houses on Marjan are covered with all the papers before the '90s and after '90s but they're covered with paper. And now we're talking about illegal construction, that's a different story. But we're talking about the Bear rather than this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26881	Thank you. Replica Mr. Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26882	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Roshin spoke of hypocrisy. No one is of course against solving the problem of people who found themselves neither guilty nor in debt in '81. And all this time until the inspections did their job correctly and allowed these social cases to be built and people were allowed to legalize that story, of course we stand up for it. But I guarantee that this change of plan will enable another part of the space not built at all to be built in the next period, i.e. to enable further construction of Medvednica. And hypocrisy may not be the government's wish to compensate for a space that could be compensated. We had a law that doesn't seem to belong in the order of importance to the owners of, say, the Law on Golf of the Land, or the Forest, etc.. So that's where we put the law so that without anyone's question, people can be exempt. And now we have the government's argument that there is no compensation because these are private owners from the Green Side, etc. So in my opinion, one of the far more important issues about the preservation of a single space was not considered. And on the other hand, when we had golf, here's golf is very important, so we're going to do whatever it takes for people to get forced to sell land, etc. That maybe 50 golfers more on one playground could play. So there may be hypocrisy when we talk about one law and another, or one priority and another priority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26883	Mr. Jerko Roshin's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26884	Thank you, Mr. President, we have this in Split or Dalmatia saying, "I'm in the pits," so I'm trying to stay in Medvednica's domain, and now you're transferring me to golf. Of course, I'm willing to talk golf when there's a theme of golf or anything else. But this time we're talking about the Bear. Secondly, I agree with you and share the fear, I truly share the fear that and when these limits change is whether it means the end of illegal construction or it will continue. But dear God knows, neither you nor I know. But we know we'd like to fight it and we wouldn't be happy to see that happen. Now we have one chance to say we have done everything in our power that we have come to real boundaries that can really exist and that have made a strong distinction between protected and unprotected space, urban space, actually space with houses and space where there shouldn't be construction. Let's try to do this practice together and make it no longer happen. So it will depend very much on the future mayor of Zagreb, whether it will oppose such practice, whether it will use all its potential, that the instruments that the law has made available to him, the institutions that exist, to prevent such a thing. Will the future mayor face it? Neither you nor I know how he will behave. But I hope that one I think would be a good fighter against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26885	Thank you. The replica of Mrs. Christmas School.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26886	Thank you very much, Mr. President, here's listening to my colleague Roshin, an urban expert, and I just had to get back to you because it's also about the city of Zagreb. '81. year, we said since '81. the year that 13 thousand inhabitants were increased on the side, in Medvednica on the side of Zagreb. What does that mean? Of course it went without a plan and no arrangements, and that's what happened. What's going on with these people? These people must, of course, stay, if not the city of Zagreb, i.e. a local unit that was supposed to handle organised but also watch these people come to these areas urbanally, have absolutely done nothing, interpreting that they are social cases and that they should remain. But today, when the law to stay is over, it's not good again. But I would mention the same thing that is very important for the city of Zagreb, just the arrival of people in one way or another in the city of Zagreb, it was absolutely not taken care of by the organisation of the arrival, and also absolutely the city of Zagreb did not create an urban programme to accept all the expensive urbanism. Today we have in the extreme parts of the city of Zagreb, i.e. in the edge areas of Zagreb, an urban mess. A lot of illegal construction, a lot of entry even into agricultural land where construction is great. But certainly no one is forcing those people who came to us to lose their roof over their heads. But indeed, for nine years, the mayor had absolutely not taken care of these resulting constructions that had created a riot in the border areas of the city. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26887	And we have another replica, Mr. Zdenko Franic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26888	Dear fellow Roshin, it is really not disputed that the founding situation needs to be improved and that people must be allowed to live normally because in these 5000 ha that we exempt from nature park is really more a condition so that the criteria of nature park are actually no longer met. However, what could be done is that the government showed at least good will and partially compensated that area on the green side despite absurd arguments that it was a private area, i.e. that it was a forest of poorer quality. No matter how poor the forest is, it is a natural forest in which no one has intervened and I quote a fellow Gulić who said on behalf of the HDZ Club, in a debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, “devastion has not happened on the Zagorje side, and there birds are still chirping.” So let's protect that, if not all 5,000 ha then 500 ha. Show good faith, and then we'll really be convinced that the state didn't kneel to large capital by sending a message that anything here is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26889	Replication response, Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26890	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The replicas of counterpart Franic cannot be seen as some sort of counter. His poetry is very much listened to, and I agree with him on everything. However, I would like to say that at the committee's meeting, we too asked a question about the possibility of compensating lost areas in the immediate environment or elsewhere, and after a few days we received a text and a graphic representation of how many lost areas are being compensated elsewhere. I, I find it hard to believe you know that some profession that has been doing so with some bad intentions about it and that they have probably analysed all the places worth protecting and not being hypocritically involved, but actually involved and there is no personal reason to challenge their finding that such a new protected space cannot be found in the immediate environment because it would probably have been included in that protection before. But one hectare is out of the sleeve again, one hectare. I just don't know how much that was, was it possible? But the question of goodwill has already been shown elsewhere, and I would not say that such a bill is a result of a bad will. I trust them and I believe that's the way it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26891	And the next replica, Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. I also take your debate as a confirmation of a part of my words that I have spoken, which is that we cannot talk about the protection of natural wealth as a national interest of what a Croatian weekly wrote yesterday, where you and your colleague Roshin contributed. And that's really how it's supposed to be. But at the same time contribute to the current and future devastation and that is the main problem. The policy of this administration is based no matter how hard it is for you to admit it because you are part of that administration. It is based on hypocrisy and how these discussions started around Sljemen and about Marjan it will turn out that the mayor of Zagreb is also guilty of the devastation that is currently happening on Marjan. Thank you. Replication response, Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26892	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I mean, it's Bandic's fault for Split, and it's funny for you to say, I don't have to plead against it. I think that's quite clear to you, that it's completely inappropriate. And the second thing you're saying is that I belong to one part, that I'm part of an administration that does something wrong. First of all, since I became a part of that administration five years ago as president of the government's council, things have started to change considerably, saying that this administration that you point to is not negatively speaking, it has realized that some things should and should be triggered. I personally believe me not to feel like something negative in it, but rather something positive. And if I think to myself that I'm positive in this work and if someone around me also thinks it's just an indication that this government is doing better and better. He's doing well, but he's doing better and better. And trust me that the battle with all these problems will be getting stronger and stronger and that the results will be getting better and better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26893	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture Zoran Šikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26894	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First, on behalf of the promoter, I thank you for all the discussions, all the proposals, all the suggestions, and especially those that will contribute to the implementation of this law to a better and effective protection of nature in Croatia. However, in the end, here is this debate just a brief few findings. It is not true that Croatia is on the tail when it comes to nature protection. On the contrary, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, Croatia is at the top. The total protected area of the Republic of Croatia at this time is 46%. What we are talking about when it comes to the European average that varies depending on whether something new is protected or removed or protected is between 15% and 20%, and that includes all categories. They also mean the categories of those national and category today to accept integrated protection, which means ecological networks. So 46% almost half the surface. Therefore, when we take the 15% data in the European framework, it also includes the European ecological network. That means NATURA 2000. Also, if we talk about the stricter ones, means more restrictive or conservative models and protection categories, then I can tell you that 85% of Croatia is in that area, meaning stricter than the total protected area in those strict categories, which means national park, nature park, special reservation and strict reserve. It again says how much Croatia's step is in that part. Furthermore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is led here by a strategy of biodiversity and landscape diversity. The first strategy was adopted in 1999, last year we adopted a new strategy and exactly one of the objectives of this strategy is to carry out a correct, reasoned, professional review of protected areas. So this is where we deal with exactly what's defined within that strategy. Furthermore, no other reasons, other than professional and public inclusion in the proposal, were included in the preparation of this law either economically or otherwise. So we have the irrelevant economic value of the forest and that they are private. In the end, we have national parks like Kornati National Park, which are 99% privately owned. The only reason is, it means the real natural value of that area. The natural forests are mentioned here, but the natural forests of the pastures, and you most of you, if we're going to deal with it, know what it means to be a hive and it's an absolute category that, in the framework of the Nature Protection Act, can't and doesn't deserve any form of protection. Besides, the forest waist has its own categories, which is the protection forest. It means forestry, and if we are discussing others and respecting and introducing integrated protection, we can talk about nature protection through both forestry and water economy and through spatial planning and through many other sectors. No fee here is a question, because actually only running with professional elements and means the element to include this in the public were the only reasons why the proposer was led and ultimately proposed such a final draft of the law. All of this, again, I am keeping enough on behalf of the promoter to ask here and I hope that such a law will be supported which will definitely give a great basis that implementation and implementation of the law can be stronger and more effective and that we will be in line with that percentage at the top of European nature protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26895	Thank you. One correction, Commissioner Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26896	It is simply incorrect because these are facts seen with the naked eye, as Mr. Secretary of State says by thanking the Government that Croatia is the first to protect nature and protect the environment. That's just not true. Croatia is unfortunately the first to do a lot of ugly things that I am not going to do here to spoil this Idyl on environmental protection on these topics, but just tell me and list to me a single country that is planning and when the state allows it to build a golf course next to the Vran Lake.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26897	It's not a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26898	No, it's a correction of nature.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-11-0.u26899	Unfortunately, some things are incorrectible colleagues of Anticevic. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Declaration of the Western part of Medvednica Park of Nature. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. Score. With 75 votes for, 23 abstentions and 10 against, passed this law.
