ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41003	Good morning! Ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, we continue with the session and move on to the agenda point - Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the current and appointment of a new member of the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Government has proposed these decisions pursuant to Article 6 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law on the State Commission to control the procurement procedure. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Ms Tamara Obradović Mazal, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41004	Thank you, Mr. President. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is proposed to resolve the current member of the State Commission, Ante Perdic, given the circumstances summarised in the cited article and at the same time the Government proposes to appoint Mrs. Rožica Goužnje to the new member of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. The same résumé that includes the education of the work experience so far we have contributed to what results from meeting the conditions of the existing law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41005	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41006	Dear Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the government, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We are just ahead of us with a technical item on the agenda that should address one staff issue, i.e. replacing one member of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. However, the issue and the process reveal a whole series of problems burdened the Republic of Croatia, which in many foreign circles makes the Republic of Croatia see itself as a highly corrupt country, as a country whose institutions are unable to resist and not recognise the situation of extremely high levels of corruption. We know that the head of corruption is always at the top of politics. And many warn that we cannot oppose the problem of corruption unless we have an open, clear, firm view of the need for radical cuts at the top of the policy itself. However, the same practice shows that the technology of corrupt behavior is incredibly developed, precisely in the public procurement system. The fact that in several years, the Croatian Parliament has seriously changed the Public Procurement Act several times, says itself that in this space or those who are obliged to propose new solutions or those who pass such a law are not able to comply or perhaps that the system is set up to make it possible to say that everything is wonderful on paper, and in practice, that is, people are who they are, so things don't work out. There are a whole series of examples from the public procurement system that show that when the state compared it to whether it was a controller or a public procurement contractor, there are major problems with honesty. We have recently discussed one issue here, and it is about former Minister Roncevic and Trucks, but I will point to another situation. During the debate, i.e. the hearing of my colleague Roncevic on the Investigative Commission, i asked the explicit question. Where does he get the right to call for an exemption defined by the Public Procurement Act, not only when it comes to the procurement of war equipment, but when it comes to the procurement of underwear, food and all other supplies that the ministry has been contracting in public procurement procedures under that article which provides for exemption from the system which defines the obligation of a public tender? I couldn't believe my ears. The man was completely honest and told all the members of the Investigative Commission that the public procurement system was practically violated, in order to protect the interests of domestic producers. I can understand the urges of a minister who does so, and apparently he's not the former defence minister alone. We see this from the findings of the State Audit every year that come before the Croatian Parliament. But the lack of goodwill to end this favor that is most strictly forbidden and which is why we have a whole series of problems in the European Union, is something that shows that when government members are in the places in which they are decided in public procurement procedures, they do not function pro-Europeanly. The interests of the Republic of Croatia are not working, but with reasonable doubt that they are suitable for certain producers. Because it's a direct contract procedure, it's a guess. We can never determine the damage caused, because we have no parallel indicators, because no public competition has been conducted. And now we still have a case where a member of the State Commission is arrested for manipulating the status of a military disabled. And not yesterday, not two years ago. Someone had to know about the fact that Mr. Perdic falsified the documents, denying that he owned the property and acquired defensive privileges that did not belong to him. This raises the question again, what is in the register of Croatian defenders hidden from the eyes of the public, and how do people like Mr. Perdic abuse the status they have? If we choose people like that in the state commission, then it's no wonder there's a whole series of problems in our public procurement system. How's that commission treating you? Here's a single example. In Velika Gorica, a public tender was held for the design of a contractor for the construction of a new sports hall. The first one was annulled for formal reasons, the second one was carried out according to the last letter of the law. It was implemented long before the local elections, and when the deadlines for signing the contract with the contractor, the mayor was obliged to conclude the contract. The fact that it fell between the two rounds of the elections was later interpreted by the court at the request of a new HDZ mayor as an invalid contract because it violates the Law on Transfer of Authorities. And you know who made and signed that court order? No one but Mrs Vesna Žužić, who has been suspended, or under the procedure, is under strict measures before the State Judicial Council. After that, instead of the mayor signing a new contract if the contract signed was already in conflict with the Law on Transfer of Authorities, he addresses the state commission. The state commission says that because the court estimated the signature on the contract as the last element in the preparatory phase of public procurement before the whole process was carried out, it was not good that it was simply insane because it was done according to all the rules of the profession and by law, it was conducted several months to the last detail correctly. So what happened now? The mayor forgot to officially cancel public procurement, so the contractor sued the city and is now seeking a lost profit on the project. Who's going to answer now? Will the state commission? Will the members of the state commission be responsible for this damage? And the citizens of Velika Gorica will not have a hall for at least a year for which the funds were provided. There's only one example. I'm talking about those examples I know of because I come from that constituency. I hope the promoter looked after what he was doing when he proposed a replacement for Mr. Perdic. It would be a scandal consistent with first-class scandals in this country if this replacement was proposed in haste and not imagined until the end. I do not wish to say a word contrary to the interest of the lady proposed because I do not know the person but I hope they did not follow the same criteria as when they proposed Mr Perdic. It is known that, although the public has little use of the fact that the big remarks made to us by our association to the European Union did not have and there is not only Slovenia, but we are entertained by the case of Slovenia in order to suppress the other plan that the whole group of countries, namely the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, Great Britain and Denmark, have serious objections to the situation in our judiciary in the negotiating chapter - the judiciary and fundamental rights and in some other elements that are primarily related to the fight against corruption. And we're talking about that right here. Why did Minister Shimonovic go to Great Britain? Why is our chief state negotiator, 11.10, going to the hearing before the Dutch Parliament's Foreign Political Committee. That's exactly why. If they participate in the creation of our anti-corruption policy, in creating our personnel policy, in the fight against organised crime and corruption, they do not understand what is the importance of timely and rapid action will be none of the new dates proposed to us. The biggest responsibility is precisely in the government, and it is not the mere fleet of someone from the opposition or some parliamentarian who has to defend this parliament's interests as opposed to the interests of the government. It's not true, these interests can sometimes be identical. In this case they are and must be. There's a huge responsibility in the government, and I hope that on this one, there's no failure in human resources and we know what we're doing. The government has full responsibility for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41007	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, if we start to mention the names of the people against whom the proceedings are being conducted, then we take over the role of the State's Attorney's office and the judge. Presumption of innocence we know what it means, and I'm asking you to avoid it when a procedure is initiated to bring up those names from the pay phone. That's not correct. Please, I'm saying it in general no matter who it's about. Let's not turn a parliamentary pay phone into a courtroom or take over the role of the State's Attorney's office. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41008	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here we came to one point that I thought would take us a minute, but obviously it was used for something else and that something else we had past the opportunity to listen to, and I think we're gonna tell everything that was right in our heart or that's been holding us back for a long time, so then we said that's how it is. Clearly, we're talking about our opinion. The HDZ Club will certainly support everything that will contribute to the resolution of any corrupt acts, including public procurement. I can say that here I was glad that the state commission formed but I can't say from my own experience that we were always too satisfied with that. In fact, the criterion wasn't always the same since there was a time, and people came along because of some merits there, I think it was formed somewhere in 2003. And that's why it's good for certain new members to come along, so it's not always the same view of the same things. I can tell you something else that happened in the State Commission that we weren't satisfied that there were too many cancellations. So, it took some small reason to cancel the competition, and canceling the competition because again I say small and unconvincing reason leads to a clear delay in the work, because you have to call a new competition, again the same story. You seem inconclusive. So it wasn't always bright. But here are the changes and the leadership and the arrival of new people I believe the final experience has come. So, that people have come to understand what a public tender is, how it is conducted, and how it is done. I have to tell you, I'm listening to my colleague Beus Richembergh speaking on behalf of the club and with whom I've spent such a considerable number of hours in one of the committees that I'm sorry he wasn't in the previous commission of investigation. There we had an incredible lot of violations of all possible competitions, because there was a minister whose study we studied and almost a hundred of what kind of contracts to that extent broke the law to get Europe by the head, and it was very much by the head. The minister, on the one hand, was a signator, and on the other hand were the heads of his companies. So, totally coning groups. I don't think we should explain who the minister was. I'll just give you a few examples. That the jobs were divided, and the tender was opened 5 months later, that, let's say, the Coning Engineering Competition was awarded a tender for the renewal of 7 million and anex another 10 million, that there was a whole series of suspicious things. Here we watched yesterday's POS building on Cres. She boasts that it's nice all together, that in an incomprehensible way Coning got there I don't know 29 garages and 3 business spaces without any trace that was a contractor. So, incredibly many examples of a breach of contract. There was almost no contract without at least five, six, seven annex contracts. So one example that would be better forgotten than mentioned. But we can't forget it, because here's the Croatian Parliament confirming what the investigative committee found it sent here four, five years ago to the State's Attorney's office in the hope that the State's Attorney's office will investigate it all together. I believe that colleagues Bajić and his team will find little time to remember those ideal times as well. As far as public procurement is concerned, we have, unfortunately, countless examples similar to those told by a colleague. I will repeat until the end that in exactly the same way as the purchased trucks obtained 210 fire tankers type Mercedes after the cancellation of the tender. So, according to the exact same procedure, that was the only thing that happened in another government in 2003, and as far as keeping our companies' interests, it should be said that the fire department in Maria Bistrica was destroyed. And after that, the company failed. I know we're still here in town, I'm talking now to the personal city of St. Sunday we ordered another fire tank there that was delivered to us in Maria Bistrica, because here we were the most favourable offer. But this was at a secret government meeting decided to buy the highest quality Mercedes tanks. Obviously, I don't mind, but firemen are the best. But why is the army the cheapest? If you buy more expensive military vehicles, it's a crime. If vehicles are purchased for firemen without the cancellation of the tender, so after the cancellation of the tender they are not military vehicles, it does not fall under this at all. So it's something different, yes. Next, we have a fine example of the same as the public procurement of the purchase of tilt trains. Eight sets of tilt trains again in 2003. So, that 2003. A little research was needed precisely for the history of procurement where 30, nearly 37m euros were spent on lean trains without competition. So this is where the State Commission had no business, because there were no competitions. Of these, now let's see the result, of those eight train sets, so almost 37 million euros drive 3 and those 3 are broken every minute. To whom it was in the interest to buy expensive trains, and to the public, that poor remaining line of sight, we know that until the 1990s, the Unika railway was repaired, renovated, electrified and the like. The track was really a stepdaughter who was here after the war only what we had left to the sea, so we had to rebuild both the fleet and the rest. But why buy trains completely inadequate for such a railroad. Whose interest was that? To spend 37 million without competition, the euro, without competitions for inadequate trains that do not drive in Europe anywhere in such relations. I guess these Canadians are some kind of train or something. So, we have something to talk about. Gentlemen, if you want to talk about current examples, if you want to accuse people without judgment, then you were born too late. 'Cause in the end there's a '45 somewhere. On '46. They'd achieve an envious career. It didn't take too many courts there. There was immediately someone accused, finger-pointed and liquidated. That's exactly how, unfortunately, both my dear colleagues and colleagues behave. Let the State's Attorney's office do their job. They're fast somewhere, they're slower somewhere, because they have a lot of lawyers, everybody gets some jobs. Someone pushes aside, somebody rushes away. But we have to trust both the state's attorney's office and the BOOK, because I believe a lot of things will clear up after all. But if we throw ourselves at a rock, then let's remember a little, let's take a look at some of our colleagues, colleagues, our bosses, if they're wrong. Doesn't mean we shouldn't go into this right now, but we're all happy to clear up the situation as soon as possible regardless of the name, last name. But what's happening is actually a lynch. And the lynch in a democratic country certainly isn't me thinking what makes us a democracy. And why we show all the time in our dear European friendly countries. So let's take an example, you have an example of Patrius from Slovenia that's been going on. You have a whole series of other examples. Come on, watch it, read it, and don't just hit your own country, because it turns out that we're reporters, we're the reporters here, so I can say and I don't know the associations, the independent associations that we're funding, and others are funding all the worst stories about their own country, and they forget that the mass of this happens in developed countries. Because, in fact, power and money must lead people into temptation. Not only the citizens of Croatia, but also the citizens of all other countries. Only there are far greater amounts than we have. But also about citizens who don't blacken the whole country by replacing or against someone. But we are not talking about the individual's fault, but Croatia is such and such a country, all Croatia sees that way. My dear patriots, I have had opportunities in the past term as a member of the Committee on the Economy to receive many delegations, here he was, I don't know my colleague Jurcic and the former president, mostly the three of us, where we had delegations from various parties who were probably fighting very hard on their own ground, but here they were unique. So there were citizens of the country, the same country, and they didn't hit each other. We don't do that. We'll, if we have to make it up, tell stories to somehow raise our position a little bit. We'll hit against everything and everyone. How much do we get? Maybe some points, but the further we'll be less convincing because our fellow citizens just know what's true and what's not true. And I believe they remember far better than we all hope. So, I believe that the state commission will continue to do its job both quickly and well and efficiently, that it will no longer look as it is, I can tell you, a few years ago and watch who is calling the competition, from which the city and who is there in power, that it will not cancel the competition if there is no reasonable reason for it, because in local administration in cities, municipalities, counties, however you will, any cancellation of the tender means delaying the job for 6 months, and sometimes for a year and so on and so forth. So you should watch if something is set up or not set up. We all know I mean very well in which for years we've been in municipalities, cities, counties, in which way the competition can be done like this or like this, but it's transparent. It can work, I don't know maybe once or I don't know. But the fact is there's a problem, there's a problem in public procurement and it should be said that we often know which companies can or can't do something. You can't refuse a job to the firm you know will not do it, because it has references or someone else signed it because the state commission will support it further, and it's bad. It's bad because you know what you're getting into, you're giving someone a job they're going to pull, which is going to look for in countless other ways to increase the money that's for that job and stuff. So there's no reason to make such a fuss about a member of the state commission today. And again, I'm sorry, it could have been a long time ago without telling this pay phone everything we read this morning in the papers and the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41009	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41010	Your Honor, Mr. President. There's a whole series of allegations I'd like to correct, even some things I'd like to pollemize with even though I can't. But this allegation that this is about a technical debate about a member of the state commission actually deserves to be denied. This is about the man who was arrested. So it's not a regular and regular situation where we estimate that he didn't do a little bit of good work or his mandate expired, so now we're going to switch. A man has been arrested on charges of serious fraud. And another thing, whenever there are no arguments, he draws the story of Minister Cacic, and unlike us who talk about Rončević, who has been charged, Mr. Cacic has been stretched as a chewer for years and he has never been able to encourage or implement anything against him, and HDZ has been in power for six full years and controls all the members of the executive authority, including the state commission, and the State's Attorney's Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41011	The fact that someone was arrested doesn't mean they're convicted. And when are we going to be able to figure that out in the Croatian Parliament? Or we only understand that from other people, not our own. Please, let's not mention the names of the people from the constituencies as if that's what the state's attorney is saying. We are not lawyers, nor are we judges. We are the Croatian Parliament and stick to what is the task and authority of representatives of the Croatian Parliament. That's all I'm saying. I don't even mention names. That's what I'm saying for everyone, no matter who it's about. The council isn't that place. How would any of us feel if someone called him that, and in the end, it turns out he wasn't guilty. And then what? Who can pick this up from a pay phone and all over the Croatian public? Who can bring that back? Who can come back if you go up to the 20th floor and get your feathers up? Who can pick him up more? That's what I'm talking about. I'm not even talking about whether someone's guilty, not guilty, etc. I'm talking about things that are elemental in a democratic country. I'm sorry, but I had to say this like this and not address anyone, but address all of us. It is Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41012	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm sorry now that I didn't answer on behalf of the club, because Mr. Markovanovic said so many illogical facts when it comes to controlling public procurement procedures, that I simply don't have time in individual debate to correct all this. But let me, I'll do it next time. Corruption begins through public procurement and the issue needs to be resolved systematically. And that was one of the conclusions of the European Commission. And what I particularly want to point out is that today's debate is not just a technical character, it's actually essential. One of the European Commission's remarks, including the people who read this report, was that Croatia should be systematically resolved. Croatia has systemically solved this, and Croatia has no systemic problem if we assume that the system framework is a legislative framework. We are falling for people and today's debate is a key debate through which we need to prove and show that the problem and public procurement and corruption in public procurement will be solved, but also in society as a whole. So in Croatia, the problem of corruption falls on people, our legislative framework in general and for public procurement is excellently solved, here is the only thing you can listen to; the Law on Public Procurement, the Law on concessions, the Law on Public Private Partnership, the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, the Regulation on Terms of Use of the Single Public Procurement Dictionary, the Regulation on the way of making public procurement, the documentation for competition and offers, the Regulation on the publication and registration of public procurement, the Regulation on the implementation of supervision through preventively instructed activities, the Regulation on the content and manner of the delivery of public procurement reports, the Regulation on the list of public procurement obligations, the Regulation on forms of procurement, the conditions, education in the public procurement system, and not to add any further. Our laws, our framework for public procurement, is perfectly resolved and there is no need for improvement but when we get into a situation of public procurement control, when we get into a situation where someone is calling for a public procurement tender, huge problems begin. And that is why the debate on this man, which is indeed a huge mistake for those who have proposed him, came to the Commission to control public procurement procedures, is a key message that only professionals and, in general, public procurement without the integrity of people from local authorities will be able to address the problem of public procurement. In Croatia, public procurement here in 2007 was once again 45 billion kuna, which is 16% of gross domestic product. Last year, about 30 billion people, as a rule, half of the public procurement that people are complaining about, is cancelled, and is moving between 2 billion and 4 billion. Why are public procurement being violated? Public procurement is being violated because in many cases it is wanted to benefit, whether it is a benefit that goes into private pockets, in party pockets I will not speak today, but I would like to stress that without integrity and without condemnation of all people involved in public procurement proceedings, whether they were in SDP or HDZ, we will do nothing. I call on all my colleagues in the Parliament to stop protecting criminal individuals in any party because because of them we suffer most, we are the subject of the mockery of Croatian citizens, politicians condemn us while at the same time corrupt individuals in certain state-owned companies, city companies that are in whatever environment, individuals get rich, drive an Audi 6 and have the courage to tell the people of Croatia why we would drive in Golf, why would we drive in Golf belong to us in Audi A6. So should we, as politicians in this House, allow that and mention that they are right. Everything that happens right now in Croatia in the field of certain state-owned companies that conduct public procurement and public procurement, and in particular I will say without the names of people, Croatian highways are proof that there is too much dirt in these state-owned companies and that all of this together we must prevent. Do not let individuals get rich at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and laugh at all of us. They're laughing at all of us, and they're saying it's our right. The money spent in Croatia is the money of Croatian citizens, all taxpayers, and these money needs to be built highways, not apartments, homes of individuals working in these companies and not to buy cars that end up in their hands on the burden of Croatian citizens. How do you break public procurement? It's very simple to violate public procurement and everything in accordance with the law. The construction of the tunnel in Croatia, the coloring of the tunnel in Croatia, what is it doing? The tunnel in Croatia is said to be painted by a company that has 200 certified workers for anti-corrosive protection. How many such companies in Croatia? Only one and is very coherent and constructive and is called “Build Fund”. No other company in Croatia can meet that requirement in a tunnel painting contest and all according to the law, but this is how public procurement is violated. In the preparation of the tender documentation, it is preferable in advance to an individual future investor, everyone knows it, and they are laughing in our face. Who canceled an additional 8 million kuna tender? What kind of project manager doesn't know in advance that it's going to take 8 million kunas of additional work? She annulled the Public Procurement Authority, which therefore has the opportunity to in advance analyse the tender documents to establish that something is wrong, and that is another indicator that can be reached by individuals who spend our money. How can a public tender still be violated, so in some ministry the Secretary of State invites future performers and tells them you will call them, so much you will make an offer and none of you should complain, but the one who gets the contest will share the papers with all of you. The competition will also include tunnels, the company “Build Fund” will not report, but you will have to give it a job. This is how competitions are broken when Croatian highways are built, and that is why Croatian highways are one of the most expensive roads in Croatia. Therefore, dear colleagues and colleagues, our legislative framework is good, the bodies that are formed and according to the strategic plan of fighting corruption exist but all falls on people, people who abuse their positions and spend taxpayers' money on their personal interests, I think it is time to put an end to it and not to call on it all the time in 2003, colleague Markovinovic why you have not submitted your applications, you have been in power for 6 years, you have been able to file applications, you have established an investigative commission, you have solved this problem, to stop burdening us with this. Let's talk about today's public tenders, about today's money that leaks everywhere, while Croatian citizens remain unemployed, 300 thousand citizens are left without a job, an external debt of 42 billion euros, an internal debt of 20 billion, and a good part because of the corruption and organised crime that accounts for $12.5 billion a year, let's figure out that we can finally show in Croatia that we can actually fight corruption and corruption in public procurement. Let's not protect individuals in all the parties that harm us. Direct contracts, here is Zagreb Holding, its budget is 5 billion kuna, out of these 5 billion kunas 2.5 billion go to public procurement, and out of these 2.5 billion and a half are spent in direct contracts, and direct contracts are a key way of corrupting public procurement activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41013	Thank you. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. Mrs. Susana Bilić Wardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41014	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Jovanovic, who I quote, "Stop protecting those who are committing criminal acts". We leave it to the competent institutions of the system, and unlike you, we do not suspect, we do not accuse, we do not condemn, and we would try and punish because we respect the presumption of innocence that everyone is innocent until proven guilty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41015	Correction, Mr. Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41016	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's the clue to this same correction, only with confirmation of this in one other direction, and that's an accusation already pre- and constructed, so the whole story, the way the secretary of state discusses the competition. Mr. and colleague Jovanovic, is that perhaps from experience you're telling him how it's done? As far as I know as mayor in three terms, no one does that. That's how you might only work if you have a certain experience in that principle.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41017	Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41018	Here's to correct a colleague who claims I'm burdening, I guess here's him and his colleagues and colleagues, with his claims. I just want to say that if we're talking about corruption then let's look at the brightest examples of corruption. And I resent that by misusing my position as president of a National Council for the fight against corruption, my colleague only cries out: "The government should be replaced." Therefore, it does not matter whether there is corruption or not, but only matters how to come to power and that is why they have divided the stakes. One attack I don't know of Calmet, another attack Polancec, the third one, the fourth one, you gentlemen have the election. If you fail in the election, the next election comes, and you know you won't succeed, that's your problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41019	Let's move on. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41020	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to remind you of our parliamentary debates in the report on the work of the State Commission, which each regularly showed us how many complaints they had, how many complaints they adopted, how much they refused and gave the value of controlled public procurement. This State Commission, and also because of the new law that was debated here not for a full month if I'm not mistaken, we all felt together that it was a very important anti-corruption body. Besides, I won't say anything new if I say that public procurement is the most corruption in every country not just with us. So we discussed in the report each year, we passed a new law, which said that the mandate of the current members of the commission was up until the end of the term of office to which they were appointed. The government came before us with a proposal for a member of the commission to get rid of and choose a new one. What does it say to explain the reason for the resolution? Has a member of the commission retired or a peace mission so far? Is it possible for the Government to come before Parliament with a motion for resolution without giving any reason why someone no longer has the conditions to remain a member of that committee? Do we have to assume that the reason for his shift was the fact that he misused status and illegally acquired property? So we have to read the newspaper to understand, understand, and understand why the government will propose or why the government is proposing someone's solution. So when the government already points out that the newspapers show why Mr. Perdic Ante can no longer be a member of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, then I would have to remind myself of another fact that was present in the media, which is that that same member of the State Commission took pictures several months earlier of the media to drive in a car purchased by one company or company that participated in one of the public procurement control procedures. At that time, this media information was not enough for anyone in the government to verify the accuracy of these allegations, and it was then that it started the process of resolution. However, this example raises two key issues. First, did anyone other than the body of the crime investigation know about the acts that this man did? Is there at least a theoretical possibility that all the time that this man was being blackmailed by those who knew about the abuse of status and the illegal acquisition of property and forced him to make a decision in the commission itself? That's theoretically possible. Just like when it came out to drive someone else's car, someone knew about it, someone sent reporters and photojournalists to record it, so someone might have known these other facts about why there was an arrest. And secondly, whether the process of proposing candidates for members of that commission that we have entered the new law is the best. I, in my debate on the law, have troubled the solution, in my view vaguely and incompletely, in which way the government will collect candidacy or candidacy. And now I ask how, by what procedure did the Government of the Republic of Croatia come up with a proposal to appoint Mrs. Rozika Gužvanj as a member of the commission, to be elected a member of the commission? Do these candidates have security checks? Wouldn't this case be strong enough now to say the National Council, the Anti-Corruption Development Council, be empowered to have an interview with candidates before the appointment and debate in the Assembly? By having a public conversation at an open session, let's check out everything about the candidates and find out all about them, who they are, what they are, is there or is there no obstacle to their choice? If the Parliament already has an anti-corruption body authorised to monitor the implementation of anti-corruption measures, the state commission is one of the anti-corruption bodies. Why not protect ourselves from the possibility of making such mistakes in the process of proposing the election of members of that committee? What guarantee does the Government offer to the Parliament and that the newly proposed candidate has no obstacle to the selection of appointments, with which procedure has this been established? Who? When? And where? I don't remember what the value of controlling public procurement procedures was in front of that commission last year, but it seems to me to have been mentioned somewhere around 18 billion. So we're talking about the members of the course that, on behalf of the state, decide on the legality or illegality of the 18 billion kuna procedure. And the members of this committee are elected by the Parliament in a way that is resolved by the Government and we suggest you appoint it. And a couple of shrubs of data, where someone was born, what schools he finished and what workshops he finished. And that's all. I also want to believe that the president of the Anti-Corruption National Council, counterpart Jovanovic, will seriously consider my proposal, that we will propose a joint extension of the powers of the National Council, precisely because one and the other things is given to the Parliament. and by appointing or selecting a member of any body that corresponds to the Parliament for its work, we are practically taking responsibility for the correctness of the decision, and in no way are we involved in previous actions to ensure possible errors of new arrests, new knowledge of actions made before someone was appointed to be a member of such an important body as this state commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41021	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41022	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's colleague Lesar and you've actually confirmed what I've been saying is crucial to the implementation of all our laws, and here in the event of public procurement that staff is the biggest problem. And the process of appointing not only this commission, remember the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, as the President has concluded, shows that there are a lot of problems in the appointment of people who are key to some essential issues in this case of corruption, and we will soon have a debate in this Assembly on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy, so I hope that we can consider this proposal of yours that is certainly going to track down that the staffing here begins to be conducted on the basis of the profession, not the policies. Here I will remind you that we have never received an explanation, why the term of office of Goran Matesic, president of this state commission, has not been renewed, which has been commended by the European Commission for its work and for improving the work of the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41023	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41024	Mr Jovanovic, I fully agree with you in your assessment that we have brought legislation and regulations into line with European legislation. And some in fifth gear, some in third, one, two were even in reverse, but that doesn't matter now. But one harmony we can't make with Europe, and that's when we frame and choose people. Until this moment, we are European-oriented, and when the choice of people to be responsible comes into question, then neither European practice nor European procedures nor European wishes are present in this assembly. And that is why I always advocate, that those powers of the Parliament, when we already have the authority to elect someone we have been given by law, that before and at the moment when the proposal comes from the other side of Mark's square, it is not only a formal debate at the plenary session, but that for every such proposal by the Government in the election, there is a parent working body that will conduct a public conversation with the candidates and only then propose a debate and their choice to the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41025	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the so far and the appointment of a new member of the State Commission for the control of the procurement procedure. The Proposer is the Government. I am voting in favour of the proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the State Commission for the control of the procurement procedure. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find it unanimous with 102 votes for a decision on the resolution of a member of the State Commission for the control of the procurement process. I am voting on a proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement. Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I note that with 94 votes for and 6 abstentions, the decision on the appointment of a member of the State Commission for the control of the procurement procedure has been made.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41028	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and parliamentary representatives. Here is a second reading of the Bill of Protection against domestic violence. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has encouraged the amendment of this law for the reason that there has been a large number of criminal offences in the family, because of the need to improve the work of all bodies that are required to comply with the protection of the Law on the Protection of Family Violence and the Protocol on the Treatment and Case of Family Violence, and in order to ensure effective protection of family members, and the objection to the public by the inability to implement certain provisions of the Law on Protection against Family Violence, which are not well-standardised, and in particular to bring the law into line with international guidelines and guidelines. The new law respects the entry into force of the new Criminal Code, in particular regarding provisions relating to sanctions, detention, prison sentences and precautionary measures, the provisions of the new Bill on Protection against Family Violence are in line with international recommendations and the National Strategy against Protection against Family Violence, i.e. the purpose of the law involving the prevention, sanctioning and control of all types of domestic violence, the application of appropriate measures to the perpetrator, the mitigation of the consequences of the violence already committed by providing protection and assistance to victims of violence. In the definition of domestic violence, further, means, unlike the first reading, an additionally elaborated concept, economic violence, which implies damage or destruction of personal or shared property or ban or disabling the use of personal and common property or trying to do so, and the confiscation of the right or prohibition of the availability of personal items or of property acquired by personal work or inheritance, disabling and hiring work, forcing economic dependence, denying funds to reflect the common household and child care or other dependent members of the joint household. An extended circle of family members by introducing ex-marriage and non-marriage partners into the definition of family and now make up the family of women and men living together in a marriage or non-marriage community, children of each of them and their joint children if, after the termination of the marriage or the extramarital community, they were ex-marriage or extramarital relations. In addition, an article is elaborated which prescribes the obligation of official persons to report to the police or the State Attorney's Office for violence which they have learned about in carrying out their duties, and experts in the activities of health, social care, family, education and education, experts working in religious institutions, humanitarian organisations and civil society associations in the area of children and families are required to report to the police or to the State's Attorney's office the initiation of domestic violence for which they have learned their jobs. Penalties have been raised for perpetrators of domestic violence in accordance with the provisions of the Criminal Code. The fine is prescribed in the amount of at least a thousand to a maximum of 50 thousand kuna, while a sentence of 10 to 90 days is provided for instead of 60 days. The adult perpetrator of domestic violence that repeats domestic violence at the expense of a child or a minor shall be fined at least 15 thousand kuna or a prison sentence of at least 60 days. The law stipulates that the interests of a child exposed to domestic violence are priority in all procedures. If a child appears as a victim, the court responsible shall be responsible for the initiation of the infringement procedure for the service of social care in order to take measures to protect the rights and well-being of the child. In the current law, security of protection of persons exposed to violence is given as a possibility. The new law introduces this as an obligation by the competent court to issue a warrant to the police to repay the person exposed to violence in the house, apartment or other housing for taking personal belongings and personal belongings of other persons who have left the premises with it and who are necessary to meet the daily needs. In view of the proposal for a law on protection against domestic violence in June of this year, in accordance with the proposal of the Ministry of the Interior, Article 19 was amended in a way that deleted the article by which the authority of a police officer was prescribed to protect persons exposed to violence, the perpetrator of violence may move away from the house, apartment or other residential space in order to eliminate the direct life threat of the person or other family members. The existing laws allow the police to take the perpetrator to police premises, then investigate the events of the police, establish facts relating to the suspicion that he has committed a criminal offence, a crime or a criminal offence in the family, and in the suspicion that he has committed a criminal offence brought him to a criminal court by a motion to impose safeguards. The Court of Justice may provide for a detention of up to 15 days or an investigative judge with a motion for an adjudication for detention and the court may designate a detention period of 48 hours and/or a detention period of up to 30 days. The competent court of a protective measure prohibiting the victims of domestic violence, the prohibition of harassment or the introduction of a person exposed to violence, distance from the apartment, house or any other living space must state even before the infringement proceedings are initiated within 24 hours of the submission of the proposal. Subject measures may apply to the proposal of a person exposed to violence or an authorised prosecutor. It could be the police. In addition to normal it must be the consent of the victim concerned. The law also provides for the application of provisions to partners in the same-sex community and in accordance with... National strategies to protect against domestic violence in the law introduce a provision on the need to network competent services, e.g. social care services, health institutions and other competent authorities are required to take care of all needs of the victim and to allow access to the relevant services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As a special newspaper, the introduction of a provision requiring competent authorities to collect statistics on domestic violence involving police data, health institutions, social care institutions, educational institutions, courts and state attorneys on cases of domestic violence, and provisions on the need to monitor the implementation of the law sanctioning domestic violence by drawing up an annual report on the implementation of the law by competent national authorities and civil society organisations. The competent authority for the processing of statistical data means under this new law it becomes the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity. Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41029	Thank you. Legislative committees, gender equality, family, youth and sport, work and social partnership? I'm opening a debate. Ms. Mariana Petir's club of representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41030	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, Mr. Secretary of State. I'd start my debate the next way. By reading "Anna Karenina," I memorized one sentence that Tolstoy wrote: "All happy families are like each other. Every unhappy family is unhappy in its own way.". And it seems that's exactly the way it is. The family is a fundamental place of creation, of growth, of total value for every human person, of every nation, finally of all society. It's a place of birth, of maturation and of growing up, a place where people are expected to treat each other generously. But today we live in a time of severe family crisis. Parents not only don't have time for their children, they don't have it for each other as well as for themselves. Family is a universal social institution, but it's also fundamental because without it, society can't function. In Croatia, the family is experienced as a general and common good and 98.8% of Croatian citizens declare that their family is very important in their lives. According to the same study, 89.6% of respondents believe that marriage is not an outdated institution. According to European research, values for marriage are the most important respect, respect, loyalty, understanding, tolerance. How many of these values remain in a family affected by violence? Unfortunately, some families are more prone to violence because violence is taught behavior that is passed down from generation to generation. In these families, violence is the only reaction they know how to respond to stressful situations. Although the family is regularly placed at the top of a scale of family values today lacks support. The law unfortunately solves and solves the consequences of joint but personal shipwrecks and will not relieve mental wounds, remove bruises, heal injuries because when there is violence in the family that should be safe for each of us, a protected place where we are accepted and loved, where we share everyone with those closest to us then is already too late. How to prevent an increase in violence when the family is not at a price, when children grow up with violence on television screens and playing violent computer games. Will they learn how to treat other human beings if they look at daily verbal and physical harassment that they are rarely exposed to themselves? What is the future of Croatian society if violence among children grows, if daily black chronicles record the violence of husbands against women and children or children against their parents. The fact is, almost two victims are coming at each reported person. In a significant number of cases, the victims of domestic violence are women and are most often married, but also victims of domestic violence are children. Mostly when we talk about violence first, we think about physical or physical violence that includes all forms of physical contact aimed at causing pain and injury. But often undetectable to the environment, but deadly to human psyche is emotional and psychological violence that includes all forms of abuse that are aimed at destroying self - respect. There is no less presence and economic violence that includes all forms of depriving and confiscation of material assets and assets, banning or controlling employment, avoiding alimony payments, banning the availability of their own movables and properties. And for the first time, it's defined by these amendments to the law. It should not be disturbed with the thought that in our field there have also been war events, and sexual violence is particularly widespread during the war, conflict and humanitarian disasters. Thus, during the war in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, 25,000 women and girls were raped, and sexual violence happens today in families between spouses and between single couples. The results of extensive reports and research confirm that violence against women in the family is the most common form of violence against women in the world, that very often certain types of abuse do not appear isolated but the victim is exposed to various forms of abuse, and that it is a leading public-health problem and an eclatic example of violation of fundamental human rights solely based on gender diversity. For this reason, we at the HSS Club support these amendments and additions to the Law on Protection against Family Violence, because this law prescribes what domestic violence is, which persons are considered members of the family, and the nature and purpose of criminal sanctions for the initiation of domestic violence. The purpose of the law should also be to prevent and sanction all types of domestic violence by applying appropriate measures to the perpetrator, and to mitigate the consequences of the violence already committed by providing protection and assistance to victims of violence. In all proceedings concerning domestic violence under this law, the provisions of the Criminal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Law on Juvenile Courts shall apply. It should be noted that the applicable Law on protection against domestic violence has been applied since 30 July 2003 and during its application there has certainly been many significant positive developments in the area of development, prevention and protection against domestic violence. Nevertheless, despite positive experiences during the application of the law, the need for its completion has also been seen, and all in order to achieve a higher level of protection for family members exposed to violence. Experiences from direct application have shown that in certain cases persons exposed to domestic violence are most often not familiar with their rights prescribed by this law or other regulations. It was also shown that some provisions of the applicable law could not be applied for reasons of insufficient clarity of the provision or prescribed jurisdiction in the course of action, or that the prescribed provision was more indicative of what was causing doubt in the application of the law itself. The domestic violence by adopting this law has ceased to be a private problem, and it has become a social problem. All the competent authorities involved in domestic violence will act urgently and all procedures under this law are urgent that we at the HSS Club welcome. The need and obligation of the urgent and unscheduled handling of all competent authorities in cases of domestic violence as well as the sensitivity of the situation in the event of an offence has been committed has also been highlighted. In all acts of violence in the family of social care services, health institutions, and other competent authorities are obliged to take care of all the needs of the victim and to give it access to the relevant services. The interests of a child exposed to domestic violence are priority in all procedures. The epidemiological spread of violence against women can be seen, of course, from the Ministry of the Interior by type and by the number of criminal and criminal acts. And the example works from 1.7.1999 to 31.12.2003 because of the so-called The police reported a total of 24518 perpetrators in the family. Given the gender of the victims, 67.99% of the total number of injuries were female. Article 215a is replaced by the following: The penal code shows that in the period from 1.1.2001 to 31.12.2006, police discovered and reported 3888 persons for committing a crime of domestic violence. 2152 people were charged with this number, and only 1807 people were convicted. During the observed period, there was a constant trend in increasing the number of persons reported, both indictees and convicted persons. The percentage of men as perpetrators is 97% while the percentage of women is 3%. Analyzing data by sex and years of life, it can be concluded that significantly more often perpetrators of the crime of violence in the family are men aged 40 to 49 and men aged 30 to 39 years. In the period 2001 to 2006, 40961 perpetrators were found guilty of domestic violence, and 30169 perpetrators were found guilty. The infringement procedure was suspended by 22.9% of the perpetrators. 929 requests for infringement proceedings were rejected. 434 safeguards were applied without sentences, and 56 perpetrators were found to be innumerable persons. Compared to the accused perpetrators of domestic violence, the number of perpetrators in 2006 increased by 29% compared to the previous year. More recent data show that between 1.1 and 31.12.2007, the violation of domestic violence damaged 22,000 158 people, of whom 12,000 171 persons are adults. The most common perpetrators of violence over 6000 261 persons were husbands over their husbands, and over a thousand 160 persons, an extramarital husband over a woman. For the purposes of the infringement referred to in Article 18 and related to Article 4 The law on protection against domestic violence has been reported infractionally by 17 thousand 391 persons, which is 13.84% more than in 2006 when 15 thousand 277 persons were reported. According to the latest data from the Police Directorate in the period from 1 January to 31 December 2008, a total of 16 thousand 885 requests were received for the provision of police intervention to protect against domestic violence, which is 5.4% less than in 2007. A total of 16 thousand 169 people were reported to be 7.03% less than compared to 2007. In 28.42% of the cases, the unsub of the nasium was husband over husband, and in 5.70% of the extramarital husband over wife. Based on the intervention carried out, police have proposed to criminal courts the pronunciation of 9,000 833 safeguards. Data on the measures carried out show that out of the 788 measures imposed, only 265 police have implemented the restraining order. It is similar to that of the 377 measures given away from the apartment, house, or other space, the police implemented only 109 measures. In the same period, the analysis of the data relating to the criminal offence committed in the family referred to in Article 215 shall be carried out. The criminal code was found and penalized by police by a thousand 412 people for committing a thousand 642 crimes. These crimes totalled a thousand 359 female subjects representing 78.65% in the total number of damaged persons. All of these data show that in Croatia, as well as in many other countries violence against women in the family is a first-class moral, health, criminal problem, with data from police reports on the number of offences committed, and data on the number of measures committed show a clear discrepancy between crime and punishment, and a hypocritical attitude of society towards victims of violence that are positively legalized only fully declared, while the provoking and enforcement of protective measures is reduced to almost individual cases. We believe that the new Law on protection against domestic violence will correct that injustice, and we at the HSS Club will support its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41031	Thank you. SDP club, Ms. Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41032	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I must say that the SDP club will accept the Bill's proposal to protect against domestic violence, because we welcome all efforts that go in terms of better regulation of the problem of domestic violence. We believe that significant improvements have been made, and that the bill we have on the benches today is more quality than the existing one. However, on behalf of the club, I will also express my regret that we had no more courage, more courage to face the problems we face and try to solve more quality some objective, real problems they face both victims of violence and all those who are in an indirect or direct way to this problem dealing with. It is well known that we in the SDP stand in the position that when we talk about the general context of the meaning of this law, often as legislators or forget or give insufficient concern, it is necessary to consider that the space of domestic violence is a space from which, unfortunately very often, future bullies are recruited. And today, unfortunately, we are witnessing a situation of violence, too, too often, is too much of the current violence of fans' groups lately. Of course we're wondering where these thugs come from. Experts agree that rarely they come from a family where violence unfortunately was a modus vivendi. So the SDP club stands at the view that it is extremely important to restore values, above all Croatian societies, and this means that this law as well as any other law must be in the function of preserving, developing, implementing those values that will gradually drive out violence once and for all. When we look at this law from those positions, then we can't get the impression that it contains some disadvantages, that it contains some deficits, both in the part of the norm relating to I would say a general framework in society and in some specific norms concerning certain segments within organised society. In this general context, what to go from certainly is prevention in the broadest sense, because the fight against domestic violence actually begins by fighting violence in society. Of course, if we ask the question where and when, then the answer is everywhere, in kindergartens, in schools, in marriage counselors. That is why I expressed my regret that we were not braver than we were. In 2003, when we first passed the law. Unfortunately, this law will not force competent institutions to do their job better than they do today. And the point of working with victims of violence is to shorten the time of intervention. Quick and efficient cross-sectoral cooperation, good coordination of those involved in solving this problem. Of course I mean the police, the welfare centers, the judiciary. The key thing in solving this problem is the flow of information among entities that must be simple, which must be fast, which must be effective. Examples of good practice will be found in Austria, will be found in the Netherlands and only needs to be taken over. What encourages is the fact that the profession itself is taking steps and at this point a project is being funded by the Dutch government in the organization of the Psychological Assistance Society of Croatia. In Croatian counties, there is an education on cross-sectoral cooperation that brings together these police entities, the judiciary, experts from the domain of social care. The aim of the project is to improve exactly what I'm talking about, cooperation between institutions dealing with domestic violence in order to respond more effectively to each individual case, because effective prevention of violence is only possible if each piece of the puzzle is in place and they are doing their part of the job in haste. In the last four, five months, we have witnessed events with a tragic outcome that support how right we are as a club when we point out the need for cooperation and coordination of competent services. Let's remember the July case this year and the man from Oslja who killed his stepdaughter and badly wounded his wife. All these days, the police had information about a threat by a bully, so unfortunately she wasn't taken seriously, who in the chain of responsibility had made an appointment. Let's remember a man who was released from psychiatric treatment at Popovac Hospital, who kills his 43-year-old wife a day later. Who is responsible for misjudgement of health and ability? Someone definitely is. Remember the Porec case, where the ex-partner stabbed the woman, the woman reported abuse and threats on several occasions, and only a few days before the police arrested him for abuse and threats. So he's even been punished by 300 kuna for violating public order and peace, which irony. Who in the chain of responsibility failed, who didn't get the information he needed, and who that information traveled to for so long until there was another murder. The victim of a crazed bully and her family probably doesn't care who made the appointment, but it would be even more tragic if we allowed such events to happen again even if we didn't learn anything from such events. I'm very interested, I don't know if you Mr. Secretary of State have the answer to that question, whether the competent institutions and services after these unkind events sat down together at the table to discuss what they're going to do in the future so that these situations don't happen anymore, have they? We today had a protocol of conduct and it was indeed a very high quality and positive step that obliges competent institutions but we rightly wonder how these protocols work and whether they ended up in someone's drawers. How to shorten the time of intervention in the event of violence and how to allow the rapid transfer of information from police to welfare centres, to health institutions, from the centre to the judiciary, as possible. Today at a time of technology like we have, there's really no need for a victim of violence every time he has to tell another cop his history, and then the same thing to a social worker, and then the same thing to his lawyer, and again and again and again and always again. So experts agree that so-called Secondary victimisation i.e. Too often repeating and convincing what happened and how it actually happened is a re-experience of trauma. You know, we have a situation in children that doesn't allow them to testify more than two or three times about the same event. So this situation we have today is bad for at least two reasons. First, repeated repetition of the incident of violence for the victim means re-experience and another significantly slows down the process of aiding the victim of violence. So how do we solve this problem, how do we get to this situation? The SDP Club proposal is to form a single database which will naturally have access to only competent institutions, only those involved in the protection and provision of assistance to victims of violence. The meaning of the database wouldn't be much of a collection of some statistical data related to this problem, but that it's a key thing, connecting competent institutions to a functional unit where the victim of violence doesn't have to talk over and over again about what street he lives in, what school he goes to, whether he works, whether he doesn't work, how many children he has, as her children are called, etc. So, the database would allow for better and faster communication and exchange of information between the competent institutions and that communication today, or there is no or too slow, I hope that we are all aware of this and this is the biggest key problem today for all those who are dealing with this problem today. The database would allow quick introduction of the case, improve the efficiency of institutions and shorten the time of intervention. I would refer to Article 11 of this Law, remind you that the Law on protection against domestic violence that we brought in 2003 was very advanced, I would say very innovatively in relation to the countries of the European Union, precisely because of this article, because of Article 11 and because of the fact that we have provided for this article the pronunciation of safeguard measures. So, mandatory psycho-social treatment, distance from the apartment, mandatory treatment of addiction, etc. However, all these years we are actually waiting for these measures to begin to apply. The 2008 prosecutor's report on gender equality shows that a measure of the psychosocial treatment of a bully has been made in 4000 607 cases, and according to the available data, this measure has been carried out in only 56 cases. So in 2008, the Ministry of Justice concluded contracts with psychosocial treatment providers that because of the lack of money in the state budget no longer extended after a year, we hold as a club that this is absolutely wrong because it is known from the experience of Western countries that the costs of such treatment are up to 4 times lower than the costs followed by repeated violent behaviour because they include both police work and medical intervention and courts and prison costs, etc. I need to draw attention to another problem, and it refers to Article 19, paragraph 2, which spoke of a police officer being able to get the perpetrator out of his apartment. This is not good, but it is no wonder that this was done since paragraph 2 was not in accordance with the existing Police Law. And instead of changing the law on police powers that the Ministry of the Interior didn't want us to do, we're erasing a very important item and we're taking a step back. I think that's wrong. The Austrian law, for example. It is prescribed that the bully is currently removed from the victim's home for 10 days, a temporary court order is issued for the restraining order to be issued at 3 months and longer and the victim is referred to the intervention centre. When a bully walks away from home for a few days, when cops take away his house keys, it's completely irrelevant who owns the property. So, I'm afraid we'll still be the situation we're used to seeing, which is where a police officer follows a woman, victim of violence, and helps her take her bags and children, escorts her out of the apartment, and takes her away who knows where, parents, friends or some shelter. So, although the violence in the family is a phenomenon that we've been talking a lot about as a society lately, we condemn, we've passed here and the law that we want to regulate this problem, but let's ask ourselves, as a society, are we doing everything we can to help victims of violence, mostly women and their children, is help coming at the right time, is help coming in time, does the victim have adequate health care and psychosocial help, do we and how much we do in preventing violence? Are we doing enough to reintegrate women into some normal life? I know, I'm aware that the answers to these questions go beyond this law, but I think it's time we started to answer these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41033	Thank you. A few corrections. She is the first female representative Sunday's Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41034	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I would correct the incorrect quote of my colleague, Jerkovic, who says the proposed text of the bill will not force institutions to deal with domestic violence faster. On the contrary, Mrs. Jerkovic, because I want to believe that you have not seen a provision that says that social care workers are the same as in health institutions to be punished by a minimum fine of up to 3 thousand kunas if they are in the knowledge of domestic violence and such violence and such behaviour does not report to responsible bodies such as the State's Attorney's Office and police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41035	Madam Representative Jeljana Kalash.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41036	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here I would refer to the correction said by MP Klaric, which refers to Mrs. Jerkovic's claim that this law in this new form will not force institutions to co-operate and act quickly in cases of domestic violence. That's just not true. I will not repeat what Mrs Klaric said, but I will say that in her presentation then she had one paradox because she herself mentioned a protocol on dealing with cases of domestic violence in which co-operation and the current quick treatment were already stated, so as the obligation of all actors under this Protocol, this applies to the police, the centres and the judiciary, and also to avoid this debate on relations between the ruling and the opposition I will say one objective opinion and that of the European Commission. Recently, a few days ago, we received a "Croatia 2009" report on the progress in which it says exactly that the implementation of the National Strategy for Protection against Family Violence in the period from 2008 to 2010. "has improved," I said in English exactly as it says on page 12, so progress has been made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41037	And Mrs. Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41038	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, it is incorrect that this law brings nothing new at the speed of the victim's protection. If we read Article 5 of the Law, all competent authorities involved in domestic violence will act urgently, all procedures under this law are urgent and the court may adopt immediately without delay, and not later than 24 hours after the submission of this proposal, all those safeguard measures provided for in Article 11. And it's incorrect that there was no psychosocial treatment because of the lack of money. I don't think we have enough experts, no psychologists, no psychiatrists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41039	Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41040	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues before me have corrected most of this quote, but from the presentation of a colleague, there is a pessimistic impression that there is really nothing that can be done and that violence cannot be reduced. I believe that we should all be encouraged, of course, in that chain as you said and that it can certainly get the result, but of course I also cannot accept the one you always end up being the wrong doctors. I mean, in every system, a year ago, we had a chance to listen in one case, and so were the doctors. Every time it's the doctors. Doctors do a hard and responsible job where judgments are crucial at a given time, etc., but certainly unequivocally to make one such assessment that ultimately the wrong doctors remain, I don't think I can accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41041	Doctors are innocent, in principle. HNS representative's club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41042	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what we heard was an extensive opening statement from the secretary of state, but it wasn't burned to repeat some basics, so let me. So this law prescribes what domestic violence is, the people who are considered members of the family in terms of this law and the purpose of breaking legal sanctions for the initiation of domestic violence. And secondly, it would mention the purpose of this law is to prevent, sanction and curb all kinds of domestic violence by applying appropriate measures to the perpetrator and to mitigate the consequences of the violence already committed, to provide protection and to help victims of violence. We know that the roots of domestic violence lie in the structural inequality of men and women in our society, so domestic relations are caused by overall gender inequality. Today we witness various forms of violence in the family, at school, in the street, in the stadium, and we deal very hard and complexly with them. I am convinced that the generation of total violence is moving in most of the family relationships, so preventing domestic violence is, in my opinion, the task of all tasks. The number of reported cases of domestic violence has been constantly spinning for some 17,000 years, as evidenced by the hard-line constant of the social and political problem. Statistics say that women make up two-thirds of all victims, and that last third of most of them are powerless old men and children. And that abusers in the overwhelming majority are their sons, fathers, spouses and extramarital partners or more specifically. Of all reported cases of domestic violence, 27.49% were committed by husband over wife, 19.59% father over daughter, 12.44% son over mother and 5.29% extramarital partner over extramarital partner. So, the fact that we do not have a drop in reported cases, says that prevention is not the most effective, so we have to insist on implementing all the specifics of the proposed law, but also work on intensive awareness of the entire population from the smallest to the oldest, as violence of any kind would become an unacceptable form of behavior. I think that's the most important part of the whole story. So, the whole awareness in our society. Allow me a few words about sanctions. The proposed higher fines will, in my opinion, affect the reduction in the number of domestic violence, regardless of the family budgets will suffer. Where there's going to be a problem charging fines, I suggest you turn it into prisons. Maybe it's not the most convenient comparison, I'll use it and say that the fall of those killed in car accidents followed between the other and the considerable withdrawal of fines for traffic violations I think it's just as worth saving a life in a car accident as well as in a family accident. Violence in the family is a family accident, yes. The question, therefore, is how many cases will be applied to maximum fines, which I think must give a positive shift in this area as well. And let me mention what's new in this law compared to the previous version of July 2003. The novelty is to expand the definition of family, so it now includes adopted children. They rose, as I mentioned, the amount of fines for the perpetrators, and perhaps most importantly, the expansion of the definition of violence, so that it also includes economic violence with physical, mental and sexual. Economic violence refers to denying access to money, employment or education and is precisely one of the primary reasons why domestic abusers hold victims, in most cases it is women, in the hand. So it's natural and it's high time that such a serious thing was introduced into the law, which wants to be serious, and today we're passing a very serious law. We today have a law where, in most cases, the victims of domestic violence, where the victims of domestic violence are women, children and old people protected from domestic abusers by moving from their own homes to safe houses, as we know, further traumatizing the victim. Thus, additional punishment should not be called the protection of victims, nor should it be legal. But a new law, like the other one, and the previous one, is actually imposing such solutions. In fact, although there is a point in it that the perpetrator can be removed from the house or apartment in which he has abused other family members, many times police officers are led to the second item that tells them to enable victims of violence to collect their belongings from the apartment or house to be placed in a shelter. I wonder if that's because it's easier for the police to secure the transfer of victims, usually women and children than abusers? For me, the answer is not asked. But no matter what, I accept this form of saving victims of domestic violence, because I am aware that without those safe women's houses for now, the situation was worse than it is today. And finally, I'm sorry that colleague Jelash's proposal was not accepted, which asked for the protection mechanisms of older people and persons with disabilities to be included in the law. I am now taking the opportunity to warn us all together of a major increase in violence compared to our older citizens and people with disabilities. I appeal, let's also take care of that part of our citizens. The Croatian People's Party MPs' club will support this bill, as we estimate that by applying it, there will be positive shifts in solving this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41043	Thank you. HDZ representative's club, Mrs. Zeljana Kalash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41044	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, members of the Parliament. Here today, on the occasion of this second reading of the Bill on Protection against Family Violence in this Viskom dom, we are discussing an extremely important proposal for a law on Croatian society. So it's about protecting against domestic violence. Since a few days ago we received a report from the European Commission on Croatia's progress in 2009 I want to do again as I have already done in correcting Mrs SDP's representative, who spoke on behalf of the club, to say that this report highlights the progress made in implementing the National Strategy for Protection against Family Violence in the period 2008, 2009, 2010. I therefore congratulate all actors against domestic violence both at national and local levels but I also want to take advantage of this debate on behalf of the HDZ Club in order to talk about some of the most common cases of violence victims who do not want to report abusers within their own family and even when it comes to the abuse of their underage children but also about the obligation to report cases of violence by everyone who is in contact with the family, which concerns centres for social care, family centres, so on all members of health institutions, educational and educational workers, members of associations, religious communities, etc. and how this law foresees it. Until a few years ago, the problems of domestic violence in Croatia were viewed in a way that I will call "no see, no hear and no concern of me, it is a private matter of the family". That's the wrong attitude. It's the wrong and dangerous attitude. I want to make this clear and loud to all those who have ever been victims of violence, to all those who have looked at us and have been perpetrators of violence and to those who have not reported them or tried to participate in solving the problem, regardless of whether it concerns their own families, members of their family, their neighbors, colleagues at work, whatever. Fortunately, today 2009, domestic violence in the public is not treated as a private problem. The media played a major role in sensitizing the public, and I would therefore like to congratulate them here on this and appeal from this pay phone to continue to make a significant contribution to adequate access to cases of domestic violence. I will give a concrete example that happened the other day in Split. The underage mother of her child was so beaten up by a bully that she ended up at an emergency reception. That 17-year-old child molester's mother didn't want to report the abuse she suffered, fearing the public perhaps. Maybe fear of repeated violence or fear that no one will protect her. Finally, the bully was reported by a doctor who examined her at an emergency reception. And that's one of those important newspapers in this bill of law that I want to say. No one, but nobody is allowed to shut up the case of domestic violence, and I am particularly pleased with the fact that fines have been provided for all those who have been familiar with the case of domestic violence and have not tried to solve it. I'm also going to say some very specific statistics. Every fifth woman living in a relationship whether it's a marriage or an extramarital community survived physical violence at least once, every fifth woman. Similar statistics are also relevant in cases of psychological, sexual and economic violence in the family, which as a newspaper are explicitly mentioned in this proposal and which are a significant improvement compared to the current Law on Protection against Family Violence adopted in this House in 2003. Let's try to show this statistical parameter of victims of abuse to concrete numbers on specific cases. I will use the proposal of this law, as I did last time in the event of my first reading of this law, to use our members of the Parliament as a statistical model for showing the situation in society. I remember very well that some of our male colleagues were then caught up in this process of mine, but I want to explain why I'm doing it right on our cause. My intention is to point out that domestic violence can happen absolutely to each of us and my main intention is to tell me that the perpetrator of domestic violence must not, he cannot possibly be a person who performs significant public duties in the Republic of Croatia. So, neither the parliamentary representative nor the member of the government nor the current candidate for the president of the Republic of Croatia, nor the mayor, nor the member of the County Assembly of the City Council, nor any other prominent member of the public sphere in the Croatian society. So, I'll go back to statistics. If we could transfer the statistics of violence to a sample of MPs in the Parliament or journalists who follow the adoption of this law, these would be facts. According to statistics, at least seven MPs could be victims of family violence. That doesn't mean they are. I'm guessing today's parliamentary debate is followed by at least 15 female journalists. According to statistics, at least three of the journalists present could have been victims of domestic violence. Of course, I'm saying again that it doesn't mean that they really are. Furthermore, the individual debate of the legislators on this bill or any other draft law may take up to 10 minutes. Every 10 minutes, a woman is exposed to physical abuse by men. These are data that are accompanied by both Croatian and world statistics on family violence. I hope this is the kind of data that shocked you, but we can approach this problem differently. In the Croatian Parliament, remember 118 men's representatives. According to statistics, at least 17 MPs could have been the perpetrator of domestic violence. God forbid any of them are. I'm guessing there's a dozen journalists following up today. According to statistics, at least three of these present journalists today in the Assembly could have been the perpetrator of domestic violence. God didn't really let him be one of them. Furthermore, the individual debate on the Bill of Family Violence can last up to 10 minutes and still every 10 minutes, one woman is exposed to physical abuse by men. So much for statistics. Violence is in every individual case a violation of fundamental human rights. And just as domestic violence is the most widespread, it is therefore extremely important to talk about it publicly as we do here in the Parliament today and as different institutions and experts do both at local and national level. But also, individually, what should be done is by those victims who face a bully every day. I have already said that the Law on protection against domestic violence in the first place, in its newer form in Croatia, brought this higher house to this country in 2003. By passing the law for the first time in Croatian law, explicit domestic violence has been qualified as an infringement in a comprehensive way, unlike the applicable provisions of the Family Law. And I purposely point out this because it is recently on the home Committee on Family, Youth and Sports in which I am asked, among other things, whether we need this lex specialis or a separate law on the prevention of violence. My answer is very clear, I should. We certainly need it because without clearly established laws concerning family violence issues, without official statistics on victims of domestic violence, without serious research on domestic violence, and especially without the contribution of the media that should report on the problem of domestic violence systematically covering its different aspects, not just by bringing up individual cases in the black chronicle. Without all this said violence will continue in society to be neglected and the underrated problem with an incomprehensible high degree of acceptance and tolerance even. However, in Croatia, many positive developments in protection and sanctioning against domestic violence as well as in the handling of all competent authorities, judiciary, social care centres have taken place. Since 2003, much has changed for the better, and this is especially thanks to the protocol on the conduct in cases of domestic violence that were then completed as well as this law. Because domestic violence a few years ago as I said it was possible to symbolically describe it as an ice dream. Only a dozen percent were visible on the surface, reported and sanctioned in society, and all that huge 90 percent was hidden among the family four walls. Until a few years ago, only a small number of victims spoke, opposed, and reported a domestic bully. So far, most of the domestic violence in which the victim was subjected to various forms of continuous abuse has remained unreported. It must be borne in mind that in a woman much more than in other victims and other crimes there is conflict of two interests, which is the interest of the victim to punish, to satisfy her desire for justice, and other interest not to be marked, disgraced and rejected in her midst. I'm going to read a current article that I found at the end of my presentation, actually just a subtitle of that article that I found in the daily press the other day. He says, the father of the nightmare sexually abused four boys and a daughter, and his wife, so the wife of that monstrous abuser, says, "He's not such a bad man and it's not easy for him. I don't want to blame him for not leaving me." Of course he won't report it. She won't report it even though he sexually abused their daughter, their sons, physically abused her. I'll finish it. I hope that this debate has been seen by people who have ever been or are today victims of domestic violence and have seen that we have all spoken to them on their side and that this new improvement of the Law on Protection against Family Violence want to help them. I want to encourage them and encourage them to finally solve their problems for their lives and for the lives of their children. I appeal to them to take their lives and their children's lives into their own hands, because this law does not aim to destroy their families, it is not only intended to punish them but also to help families to function again, to stop abuse within four walls. It's possible a good psycho-social treatment of all family members. It's the only way they can achieve peace, and that's the only way they can solve their problem. I specifically know a few cases from my local community that have succeeded. That's what I want for everyone else. And lastly, I can only say, the HDZ club will support this law on protection against domestic violence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41045	Thank you. An individual debate, Mrs. Representative, Sunny Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41046	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. So domestic violence is a serious problem that occurs in every culture and in every social group. When we say domestic violence, we can say that it has a devastating physical, emotional, financial and social effect on women and children, families and communities around the world. So he's not specific just to our country. Although other forms of domestic violence are just as serious, I may not look back on the unique traits of violence committed against women by their sexual partners. Statistics of course vary, but they generally say women are victims of domestic violence in approximately 90% of cases. Violence against women sometimes endangers their lives, sometimes endangers their bodies, psychological integrity and freedom. And in the world it's known but least recognised perhaps as a threat to human rights. Violence against women is often called domestic violence because it partly stems from a woman’s sometimes childlike position in society. Family violence is also a violent behavior and a threat that is repeatedly repeated and can therefore include physical violence, emotional, sexual, can be expressed through isolation, then through intimidation, and also involves physical injury, property damage, emotional abuse and the like. Family violence isn't an accident. I'd say domestic violence is deliberate behavior. The purpose of this kind of violence is when we talk about men and women usually establish and exercise supremacy and control over someone else. I deliberately said in relation to a man a woman or a woman a man equally. Men usually use it against their partners. Those who inflict these injuries will use various kinds of coercive acts of violence against their victims. Many of these behaviors end with bodily injuries that hurt victims not only physically but also emotionally. Another technique used is emotional abuse, although this behavior does not end with physical injuries we will see it later on, perhaps in later years of life and psychologically very harmful. Family violence is different from the violence of a foreign person. So it happens between intimate partners usually in four walls and we have to say that it doesn't happen to someone else. While the victims who experience any of these two types of violence survive trauma. The trauma of the victim of domestic violence is much greater. In fact, a bully has a permanent access to his victim and the victim experiences repeated attacks during a long period of time. A relationship that exists between the victim and the perpetrator makes it difficult for a woman to protect herself from abuse. The separation from the abuser is complicated because of the complexity or strength of the relationship. In part, a colleague named Kalash referred to it. The victim may have children with that man. Of course, there are some new questions that are being asked, maybe he believes that he will change, sometimes clearly admit it. So he doesn't want to admit to himself in some way what's actually going on. And he rarely feels obliged to stay in a relationship for many reasons or perhaps financially depends on him. Since the victim and the bully have an intimate relationship, it can also affect the way a criminal sets himself in relation to a woman that he somehow understands. Because of the intimacy about the violence that was happening in it, it was traditionally understood as a private matter. So we're not gonna get involved in this, it's their private matter or don't get involved in it, it's our private matter. We need to change that. We need to talk about it even louder. Yeah, the media made their contribution, but I think they should do it even louder. A bully can continue violent behavior because of the belief in society that a husband has the right to control a woman in a relationship and has the right to use force to ensure that control. The community must react, and this must react quite differently to domestic violence, unlike the violence caused by a stranger, which is just as regulated by this law. Why are we changing the law? So we usually say that every law is a living organism, that it needs to be changed, that it needs to be complemented in relation to what is happening in society, in relation to changes in society. And that's why it's good that what's been installed into these changes and additions, and I think the Secretary of State said it quite well. Family violence and a pattern of abuse and violent behavior, and usually involves intimidation, is used to retain supremacy and control over others, and although family violence and violence caused by foreigners are similar, the experience of violent, victims and communities differ in both cases. Family violence violates many rights that protect international and human rights and are considered a violation of the law. All countries are responsible for the removal of domestic violence and defence, the protection of victims by law. There is, of course, no unique explanation, but research concludes that domestic violence is in the midst of a child’s position as women who traditionally have private and public life in many societies. The government decided to amend the Family Violence Act because of the observed shortcomings, the law that was passed in 2003. Among other things, NGOs also pointed to the same case-law and I think that, after the inclusion of all institutions, there have been changes and additions that will in some way perfect the existing law. I will just remind myself that according to the Ministry of the Interior by the end of June last year, police reported nearly 7,000 500 domestic thugs, whose victims were mostly wives and daughters in almost 65% of cases, but also mothers or extramarital partners. The new law for the first time defined the so-called so-called law. economic violence, that is what my predecessors have already spoken of, that is, the right to economic independence. Legal provisions also apply to a foster child, and all cases related to domestic violence in courts must be dealt with in haste. A provision under which social care services, so healthcare institutions and other competent authorities must care for victims of violence, and the interests of the abused child are set as priorities. Police also received new powers, fines were established. So they move from the smallest to the largest amount that is 50 thousand kuna, the prison maximum is increased, the penalty has been imposed for up to 90 days. We've had 60 days so far. So a fine has been imposed for all those who have noticed, and they have not reported domestic violence. So, first of all, we're talking about health, education, social workers. So no one can go deaf to violence anymore. What I want to say at the end that the legal framework exists, however, remains a fact that has been confirmed to us these days, when children are abused in families, and the mother, or wife, justifies the act of violence of her partner and does not want to leave him. The laws exist, but there is a question of what is with awareness of the possibility of separation from violent persons and that this behavior is not made public secret and something that is silently approved. So it will be interesting to see the application of the law, perhaps next year, which will then be shown in its full light and see how good these changes and additions were, which I have no doubt. But once again, I appeal to family violence does not happen to someone else, and we all have to react together to domestic violence. So there's these young people who are with us today, and I also think this is one lesson for them, one call for our entire community. Family violence is a serious problem, and we need to talk loudly about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41047	Thank you. At 11 and 35, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. Two replicas. First, Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41048	Here, Mr. Vice President, I'd like to use this replica to simply point to another problem. You were talking here about having to actually bear sanctions on those who don't report, you said doctors, I don't know teachers, teachers. That's absolutely correct. However, I would like to say that the same sanctions must be borne by those mothers who know that their fathers have abused children for years, which they do not report. There's a provision in the Penal Code that says it's a crime and, as far as I know, very few judges actually get caught up in that measure and sanctiones irresponsible ones, so often it's mothers who've known for years that their fathers abuse their children often and sexually, and they don't want to talk about it. You said you were still treating family violence somewhere like that's our private business. Unfortunately, that's still the case, and I think domestic violence, especially when it comes to violence against children, is something that can't remain a private matter for anyone. It must be a thing that society simply has to react to. A few days ago, we had a case in a small place where a father was brought in because he abused his family, turned out to have sexually abused his children for years. You know what happened? After two days, that same man was returned to his family. It just means that even today as we discuss here, maybe these same children continue to suffer his violence and abuse. So I wonder where the effectiveness of this system is to finally move this abuser out of the family and put him in a psychosocial treatment where he will then be dealt with and with his manner of behavior and solving problems in a family that is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41049	Replication response, Mrs. solar head.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41050	Thank you very much. Well, I agree with my colleague Opačić in part, and as far as the legal frameworks are concerned, we have already spoken to the board and it is explained, of course, that other laws can be followed. Anyway, it's tragic what's going on, so denying a woman in the family that something's going on with her children, that children are being abused. So in any case, we should condemn that act. And I say once again, and I call on all the institutions to do their jobs, to react and to prevent such a thing, and I think it would be good to follow all the cases from now on, and what happened before, what happened to those children, to pay more attention to them, and to ask ourselves here, maybe to see how it was handled in a particular case, there aren't so many, we may have to know each case.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41051	Second replica of Mrs. Snow White Kalash, please. Thirsty.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41052	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, all right. I fully agree with your exposure Mrs. Glavak and I wanted to actually replicate, additionally highlight one of the facts you said, which is that the bully has the right to use force within the family, he feels it is because it is a private matter to establish control within his own family, and I would like to point out one more thing that I think is not enough talk in Croatian society. Last year we started a campaign against the physical punishment of children and in cases of physical punishment of children and as much as cases of abuse within four walls by silence or non-reporting and non-sanctioning we help trans-generational process of transfer of domestic violence or transfer of even violent behavior. That is why I agree with you and with your claim when you said that it is the duty of all of us, the whole community to react in these cases but I and in this opportunity, since it is also a form of violence within the family I want to speak again against the physical punishment of children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41053	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative of the Sunana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41054	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, in any case, I agree that violence must not become a form of behavior and I believe that this is precisely the case, children who have such a pattern of behavior and become violent themselves, it is nothing new, so it is once again a confirmation and an invitation that all the institutions of this country are listed not only because they could be fined but because of their moral and social responsibilities doing their part of the job, so we do not want to transfer behavior patterns from parents to children because these children will also be parents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41055	Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41056	Thank you, Vice President, unfortunately, I have to determine this opportunity today that this final bill on family protection against domestic violence is being debated mainly or exclusively by women. There was an honorable exception to the respected colleague Milinkovic, however, his comment, i.e. the correction of the incorrect quote, referred to the protection of the efficiencies of the medical profession as far as I could see and not the metricity of the matter that we are discussing today. At the beginning of the presentation, I would like to say that I will support the adoption of this Law, although I believe there is still plenty of room for its improvement, and I have translated some of the suggestions into amendments that I hope the proposing family ministry will seriously and carefully consider and hope to accept. I must say that I am sorry that the applicant did not accept my suggestion from the first reading, which referred to a more precise definition of the provisions of the Law relating to the harassment or harassment of members and family members or former family members or family members by another or another member or family member or former family member, at the place of employment of the victim. This abuse is manifested as a constant calling of the victim, or as a business associate or associate of the victim, providing incorrect and offensive information about the victim's victims of business associates and associates, sending faxes or e-mails that bring professional or moral credibility to the victim and the like. A few days ago on the Index.hr portal, I read an article about how a British model had been beaten by her ex-partner after leaving him first and then hired a partner who poured acid on his ex-partner and mutilated her face for life. What disgusted me more than just the news were readers' comments, I will deliberately say the reader's non-reader, under this text, of which an extremely large number of were cynicalally and negatively commenting on the female victim of this violence. It is precisely because of such unacceptable and inappropriate reactions that I do not say a good part of Croatia to the public in the case of domestic violence that education, prevention and especially consistent and quality implementation of psychosocial treatments against perpetrators of domestic violence are key to calculating society with this extremely difficult social problem. In this regard, I welcomed the Secretary of State's information with great satisfaction on how the Resort Ministry plans to regulate the mandatory psycho-social treatment of a bully by special law. However, I cannot take advantage of this opportunity and do not refer to some of the provisions of the laws which are touched on this particular area and which are not sufficiently precise and unspecified in this bill. This applies in particular to provisions relating to the application of safeguard measures. For example, Article 18(1) does not specify who will impose the safeguard measures provided for in Article 11 of this Act and which means that these measures can be applied on their own. In Article 12(3) concerning the safeguards of compulsory psychosocial treatment, it is not sufficiently defined who can implement these measures and it is necessary to stress that there are too few educated persons in Croatia who can conduct psychosocial treatment at all, and these measures are often not implemented or even abolished due to insufficient financial resources. Article 22(3) does not specify which competent authority is the person referred to in Article 8 of this Act who, in the course of their activities, learns that the perpetrator of violence does not act in accordance with the applicable safeguard measure is obliged to notify in the case of domestic violence. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on protection against domestic violence should specify the time to which the commission is appointed and define the conditions under which expert commissions can be changed. I have submitted three amendments to this bill. With the first amendment, I propose that part of Article 4(1) be deleted, as this would reduce the legal inconsistency and legal unsustainability of the formulation, which reads: “No matter whether there has been a physical injury or not which opens up a large space of manipulation for both parties in the process” if the definition of the bill remains, or the final draft of the law, it will cause many problems in practice that will have to be resolved by re-amendment of the law. In the second amendment, I propose extending the formulation, i.e. involving all persons who have knowledge of domestic violence, that is to add to the saying and employees from preschool institutions who are often the first to see and notice injuries to the child in those who are legally required to report to the police or to the State's attorney to commit domestic violence. This is also referred to by colleague Kalash, but I believe that in this article the law is not sufficiently defined to mean that all those who face or who perceive domestic violence need this violence and report it. On the third amendment, I propose that forced treatment be determined for domestic abusers because many perpetrators often suffer from PTSD, are treated irregularly or are undiagnosed mental patients, so in case they are committed to psychiatric treatment established by the medical commission at the hospital, the problem of domestic violence would be resolved long term. In fact, if the treatment of bullys is not forced, it often happens that victims of violence give written approval in a hospital for the exit of a violent person with treatment, which does not solve the problem exactly the opposite, often escalates into more serious forms of violence. And finally, in the hope that the Proposer will consider my amendments, I hope that soon we will discuss in the Assembly a proposal for a Law on Psychosocial Treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41057	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41058	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Well, colleague Mirela Holly has in some way expressed her dissatisfaction that this part of the extension of the law relating to extramarital partners, i.e. work harassment or the like. It's not enough through this law and determined. I think that this part of the frequent violence between former spouses, or partners in the former extramarital communities, is quite present today because what is happening and what we read, we often read that just the ex-marriage or marriage partner has inflicted violence on the former partner. However, the same example that arises, which is also said little or insufficiently, are cases where children are in some way harassed and in those communities that have broken up to appear so-called. Not to mention the telephone fathers who harass these children, advise them, etc., and in some way leads to a disturbance in that other community where these children now live because I don't know a husband or a new husband, etc. I think that in this segment of violence should be done much more in certain situations because there are also some abnormal situations in the new communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41059	Replication response, Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41060	My colleague Bodakoš you are absolutely right and I do not really understand why the promoter and the Ministry of the Family did not respect this suggestion from the first reading of the law, but I did not want to go with the amendment to these articles because I realized that obviously the promoter would not accept this amendment, so in that sense it would be unnecessary, but you are absolutely right and indeed has a very large number of cases of harassment and children, not only means ex-partners, i.e. their already former partners, i.e. the phone partner, and these are really big problems and in their working environment, and I also say children suffer very much from such harassment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41061	Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41062	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Violence in any form is unacceptable, especially what is happening in the family, and most often affects women and children. Family violence is a serious violation of the fundamental human rights of every member of the family, and especially of women most often at risk and can be seen in a broader sense as a violation of the entire society including future generations. The Republic of Croatia has done and is doing much to prevent, sanction and suppress all kinds of domestic violence. That is why I will immediately say that I will support the final proposal of the Law on Protection against Family Violence, which the Proposer has completed and complemented in accordance with the remarks and proposals of MPs and MPs as well as parliamentary working bodies held in July of this year. I will support it because it provides a higher level of protection for those exposed to violence as well as positive shifts in the area of prevention of domestic violence. When the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on protection against domestic violence in 2003 with all the good that this law had passed then a major shift was made and in the area of sensitization of the public in this form of highly unacceptable behaviour and since then the violence in the family has ceased to be considered a private problem and has become a social problem. The application of the applicable law, which has been in force for 6 years, has also been followed by national strategies to protect against domestic violence, both from 2005 to 2007, and from 2008 to 2010. as well as protocols on the conduct of domestic violence, documents brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Resolute Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. Otherwise, I would point out here the great role played by numerous institutions of the Croatian state. From the Government's Office for Gender Equality and through the Ombudsman for Gender Equality to a number of civil society associations led by women's rights associations. I should, in no way, point out here, and the role that the Croatian Prime Minister, Mrs Jadranka Kosor, has played in protecting against domestic violence in the past and the Minister of Resolute Ministry of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. And when I talk about this part, I'm going to advocate that, besides this law, it's in the state budget and resources both for shelters for victims of domestic violence and for opening up family funds that are for the consequences, so for victims of domestic violence, and family centres certainly contribute to the prevention of domestic violence by their work. When we discussed and adopted here two days ago, i.e. we will vote today, a report on the work of the state's attorneys in 2008, we could also find data on domestic violence in this exhaustive material, because the State's Attorney's Office with special care is monitoring and separately exhibiting the crimes of violent behavior in the family referred to in Article 215a of the Penal Code. So the data shows that over the past five years we've had a steady increase, there's been a stagnation of reports, but not the number of charges, which suggests a better quality of applications. For 2008, a thousand 285 violent men were reported, of whom 933, and 758 were convicted. The cause of constant growth is found in the state's attorney's report not only to increase violence, but also to increase society's sensitivity to this violence, helping victims decide to report violence. Do we know that almost two victims are coming to each reported bully, or reported person? If we multiply these thousands of 285 we're going to get to 2,000 494 victims. Of these victims, in a significant number of cases, the victims of violence are women, but also the victims of domestic violence are children. It is not surprising, therefore, that there are only 27% of male subjects among the victims. In fact, of the 2 thousand 494 victims in the past year, 909 or 36% were underage. If victims are considered according to sexual age, then there is evidence that out of 403 men are 436 or 65% minors. It's about children and minors who are exposed to domestic violence. Married women are often victims of domestic violence. Of the thousands of 827 women exposed to violence, 473 or 26% are minor family members. For these acts in the past 2008, the courts issued a total of 876 convictions of which 762 or 87% were condemned. And from the total number of convictions, 116 prison sentences were imposed. However, when we talk about the Law against Family Violence, we should say that victims are not just women and children. I mean, there's that reverse case going on. I was quoting in the first reading of this law, I'm going to do it again today. According to the Ministry of the Interior, three thousand 500 cases of domestic violence were registered in Croatia last year, including 200 minors. But it was mostly physical violence. Because there are indications that parents are most often silent about emotional violence. And as we are in today's debate, I think that this new law was also a message to Croatian society, that violence is not a place in public life and that abusers cannot be dignitaries in state bodies. So, in a certain way, a little statistics from colleague Kalash, where our MPs and MPs here tried to show us in one light which, I think we are all aware of and that we do not need to be placed in this Visko home. I think that when the government proposed this law to the Croatian Parliament, it made it clear that there is no place for bullys in state bodies and dignitaries in Croatian society. And final. My colleagues and colleagues, I fully support the adoption of this new Law on Protection against Family Violence, which improves and improves the current regulation, and all in the interest of preventing all types of domestic violence, and for the benefit of those who unfortunately suffer the consequences of family violence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41063	Thank you. Two replicas, the first lady representative of the Sun's Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41064	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd only look back on what my colleague said. So it is evident that they are applying or reacting only when we see concrete physical violence. So we must never give up that there are different kinds of other violence. It can emotionally leave perhaps deeper traces than physical. Of course, we will not engage now in how painful one is or how painful the other is. Anyway, we need to get away from those myths, that the victim deserves something, because as you can say sometimes, she asked for it herself. And we need to touch on the fact that we need to sanction it, that we need to report it and that we need to talk about it. And I'd just like to say, if I have to, why don't you invite the prominent people out of public life, why don't you use them to talk about it too. There are some printed media, such as the American Congress, that invited famous actress Nicole Kidman to talk about violence against women. If it's a model, if it's going to have an echo in public, absolutely why not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41065	Replication response. Ms. Representative Susana Bilic-Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41066	Thank you very much. Po, dear fellow Glavak, I fully agree with this first part of you that you said in your replica. And I hope that this message is the reporting of all forms of domestic violence, that the message to the Croatian public and to every citizen is, in particular, because the law also contains a provision that concerns me much more, which is that we must have in law an infringement provision, i.e. there will be fined official persons who do not report. We have a problem with not reporting, whether the neighbor will report abuse in the neighbor's family if he sees if a family member will report abuse. That's why we do all this in public and we encourage everyone to report violence and violence. And this second part also agrees with you, celebrities have to talk about violence against women but if you understand me, I only partially fenced myself and said it was not good for parliamentary representatives and advocates to put into statistics. ... No classification. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This is a replica to my colleague Glavak. Therefore, I support it. I think that in Croatia, celebrities do so in promoting the fight against domestic violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41067	And Mrs. Zeljana Kalash replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41068	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to replicate to my esteemed colleague Bilić-Vardić because she referred to my example of what I actually took as a statistical sample in order to support the facts in cases of protection against domestic violence by very parliamentary representatives. It was this very reaction that gave me the right, or I succeeded in my intention. I wanted to shock all of us here, all of us here, whether it's the chairman or the officials of the Croatian Parliament, I didn't want to point you out as an example, not by God, whether it's about members of the state body. I was merely referring to that thesis which the Prime Minister, who is also one of the strongest fighters in Croatian society against domestic violence, said that no one who is a abuser should especially not be a public person in the family. Why would either of us start with me so that the question would not be raised again now that I pointed you out because I didn't do it. Why, in fact, any of us could be excluded. Violence can happen to anyone and in any form, not only within marriage mates but as you yourself have said by children to parents, not only in marriage communities but also in extramarital communities, but also in what we have already mentioned, and it is actually about violence in adolescent relationships that do not of course belong to family but it is a devastating fact that in more than 2/3 of adolescent relationships there is violence. And just in this case, I'm getting attached to Mrs. Glavak's replica where I said that if we keep quiet and if we don't publicly sanction domestic violence ourselves with this silence, we're creating new generations of thugs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41069	Thank you. I'm a little bit of a shock myself. Reply to the replica of Ms. Susana Bilic-Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41070	Very brief colleague Kalash. You didn't shock me. The only thing I didn't have in front of us was ten MPs, so I couldn't count on who the order would be, otherwise if I had kept my mouth shut, and now you're telling me again in the replica that I've silenced the answer to your line. Turns out, I'm helping raise a bully of future generations, and that's not my intention or my goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41071	Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41072	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary. I am reporting after my colleague, and I will immediately admit that my debate will be extremely dry because I will return to the opening, starting presentation of Mr. Secretary Adanic, so that I will only underline the main lines, or the main objective of this final draft of the law. In fact, there were so many vivid situations in bringing up my colleagues, there were examples of Lava Tolstoy, there was this, that I think I could just spoil it right now. So I go from word to deed. Namely, statistics, I'll mention them seven by June 2009. Eight thousand 242 requests for intervention have been received by the police and it can be said that intervention has been provided in all these cases. Big number. A second figure of 7000 815 perpetrators reported violence by police because of violations committed in terms of domestic violence. The third figure of 9000 823 is the total number of violent behaviors. Next issue 62.94, as the colleagues mentioned, were female victims. The most common perpetrators were husbands over husbands in 62.71% of cases. As far as the outsiders are concerned, there are a lot of cases. So, an out-of-marriage friend over an out-of-marriage husband was the perpetrator of violence in 13.34% of the cases. And an ex-husband in 6.33% of cases. In fact, what is highlighted in this bill? The proposal stresses that the adoption of this law ceases to consider domestic violence a private problem rather than becoming a social problem. Next, further adoption of this law for the first time in Croatian legislation has explicitly qualified domestic violence as an offence in a comprehensive way, unlike the current provision of the Family Law since 2003. Furthermore, this law provides for more effective and sustainable protection for vulnerable family members exposed to violence. And now I'm going to list the papers specifically there are eight of them compared to that of 2003. First of all, as far as the point is concerned. The purpose of the law includes preventing, sanctioning and curbing all types of domestic violence by applying appropriate measures to the perpetrator and easing the consequences of the violence already committed by providing protection and assistance to the victim of violence. Under two we can say in an appropriate way the provisions of the Criminal Code, the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on Juvenile Courts apply. Three is about expanding the circle of family members in view of other laws governing family relations, Family Law, the Social Care Act. Under four, now we have definitions. So enlargement is the definition of domestic violence and further introduces a new concept of economic violence. The prohibition of physical, mental, sexual and economic violence in the family is cited. In addition, a provision has been introduced whereby the services of social care and health care institutions and other competent authorities are obliged to take care of all the needs of the victim and to give it access to the relevant services. As regards the perpetrator of violence, the perpetrators of violence are obliged to provide adequate information on all his rights as well. The competent court shall inform the social care service of the initiation of the infringement procedure in which the child appears as a victim in order to take measures to protect the rights and well-being of the child. The interests of the abused child are priority in all procedures. And now something about penalties that have been significantly increased. The levels of punishment for the perpetrator of domestic violence are more severe. The fine is tightened by prescribing the minimum and maximum amount in accordance with the provisions of the Criminal Law, i.e. from at least 1000 to up to 50000 kuna, while for the sentence of prison, instead of the 60-day maximum proposed new law, a penalty of 10 to a maximum of 90 days is provided for. Furthermore, the perpetrator of violence in a family that repeats violence in a family against the harm of a child or a minor is punished by a fine of at least 15000 kuna or a prison sentence of at least 60 days. The smallest and what colleagues have already mentioned, the minimum amount, I will only mention the amount of fines of 3000 kuna for persons who are obliged to report domestic violence for whom they have learned in the performance of their duties and who have not reported to the police or the competent State Attorney's Office. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community will support this quality law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41073	Thank you. Two replicas. The first is Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41074	Mr. Vice President, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues who discussed it during the day are quite in agreement with your discussions or your debate in which you said that in fact domestic violence is now becoming this law and therefore a social problem, that is, the problem of society which will address the articles of this law. Here I am merely to inform you that there have been numerous examples today in this debate that in the Republic of Serbia in the city of Cupria, a safe house for men has been established. Here's what we haven't got yet, but here's how you guys were the first to discuss it just one small contribution to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41075	Second replica, Ms. Mirjana Feric Vac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41076	Mr. Vice-President, we should not banalise a burning problem in our society and beyond the Republic of Croatia. However, I did not report to my colleague because of disagreements with his exposure primarily, but because of one element that extends in all these discussions, which concerns the child as a victim. Directly yes, however, in every violent relationship whether it is a marriage, the extramarital community is a victim because the observer of violence and this must, this pattern of violence carries in itself and reproduces it later in one way or another. Therefore, we need to take care of this when we talk about prevention. Prevention starts with an act of violence, and prevention is what happens to prevent violence at all. We've always advocated the principle. Put it in the school system, preschool education, simple education against violent conflict resolution. As the first and primary step in the direction that may be ten years from now, but will be effective in obtaining results. So all I'm paying attention to is that children are always victims of whatever violence they are in this one and whether they are therefore indirect or direct victims, but it's a fact that stems from all the cases of domestic violence and children involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41077	Thank you. Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41078	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's thanks to the application of the Law on Protection against Family Violence since 2003, we've come really to a major shift in prevention and protection against domestic violence. For the first time in our legislation, this type of violence has been qualified as an offence in a truly comprehensive way and it has been ensured that more effective and sustainable protection of family members who are exposed to violence as we could hear through today's debate. Since this government is seeking a higher level of protection, it is also seen that people exposed to violence are often not familiar with their rights and again this law solves it. For the time being, it has been observed that it is not possible to apply protective measures of mandatory treatment based on addiction or mandatory psycho-social treatment due to lack of institutions, of course and professional staff. The same is true of the practice that the fine of the perpetrator of violence has a negative effect on members themselves, i.e. victims of violence, i.e. members of the family. However, by applying this law for five years, it has contributed significantly to the successful process of the perpetrators of domestic violence. In the overall number of domestic violence, however, women are the most represented as victims. Through the debate, we heard everything and the causes of such behavior. It is also known that parents’ relations also cause a trans-generational transfer of aggression to children who as witnesses of aggressive behavior in the family in the narrow and broad community are also subject to the learning of such violent behavior in all situations and in all situations. It is also known that parents often choose violence against their children as a form of parenting measure. It often happens among young people, of course, in institutions where young people live. The causes of violence can, however, be classified into four groups and this trans-generational transfer of violent behavior from parents to children, social stress, i.e. family unfavourable living conditions such as unemployment, singleness, illness, disability, poor housing conditions, death of family members primarily of the foster family, then social isolation or a family that is reduced into a wider social environment, a disturbed family structure such as qualitatively disadvantaged families. A physically abused child is self-destructive. It is either highly withdrawn or aggressive, often manifests a behavioral disorder that endangers the fundamental rights of others, but also more important norms. Abuse is a significant predictor of delinquency, so I dare say that this law actually has a preventive effect in view of this dimension. A major shift has also been achieved through the application of this law, as the problem has stopped, as we have already heard several times being a private matter. So what happens in four walls is becoming a social problem and it's not, of course, a renegade once again, because it's definitely not a single representative and MP who came in this morning during the debate, all of them have actually highlighted this dimension which is very important. But it's also important to say that credit belongs anyway. It is not the reason why we want to boast, but it should be pointed out that without the sensitisation of the central authorities of the state administration and public institutions through the implementation of a national strategy to protect against domestic violence, both those for the period 2005 to 2007 and 2008 to 2010 and the protocol in the case of domestic violence, we would not achieve such results. These, of course, are documents that have further encouraged the improvement of existing regulations. The law offers us a newspaper, we have also heard, and this is a broader circle of members who are therefore considered members of the family, given the Family Law and the Social Care Act, and these are also women and men who lived together in the marriage and extramarital community, their children and children each of them. What I think is the special value of this law is a broader definition of violence that is further introduced, a new concept of economic violence, a provision under which social care and health care services are required to take care of and the needs of victims of violence, as they are obliged to carry out their regular activity to report knowledge of domestic violence and the State's Attorney's Office and police. But what we must never forget at any time is that violence and aggression don't come suddenly, they don't come out at once, they won't root out and stop at once or now. The proposal for this law is certainly a new quality of existing positive legislation and I will therefore support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41079	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41080	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I will only limit myself to one form of domestic violence, so on economic violence as an emerging form that represents a novelty in this legislative proposal, and in fact to economic violence on only one particular group of citizens, so on persons of a third age. In fact, the fact is that home and family are the highest values, but it is also a fact that a frighteningly large number of people are exactly home and family as a place of dangerous and humiliating life. On the other hand, the introduction into the law of economic violence as a new concept deserves praise, given that economic violence is increasingly widespread and that it is often being carried out on older people. What are the reasons for escalating domestic violence against the older population of citizens? The loss of employment, and thus constant monetary income in these times of crisis, is increasingly conditional on the existential dependence of children on their parents and then on material and financial exploitation of parents. Alcoholism and drug abuse are also a very common reason for children's economic violence against their parents. In today’s time when money and success are leading values, abuse is in fact often driven by feelings of failure and self - incompetence. Therefore, more than two thirds of the abusers of older people are just family members and most often children. But very often in the material and financial exploitation of older people, employees in certain institutions, therefore in social institutions, in health institutions, in municipal offices, law offices, and the like, who also abuse their official position and take advantage of older citizens, especially those who do not have a family or are isolated from their family in one way or another, who possess some property or receive regular benefits. The saddest thing is, it's mostly in silence, with no knowledge of the environment, and they're as old as the children of victims who rarely report the injustices that hit them. The victims of violence are particularly difficult and humiliating to seek help in situations where their abusers are their own children. In view of demographic trends and the increasing representation of people over 65 years of age in the overall population, it is realistic to expect that the phenomenon of abuse of older people will continue to occupy both the attention and interest of professionals, but certainly also the general public. And in order to be able to take effective measures to protect older people, it is also necessary to begin with to provide data on the extent of the abuse of older people, which we do not have right now. The truth in Chapter 3 of the Law on the collection, processing and storage of statistics in Article 24(1) states that the Ministry of Family Affairs is authorised to collect, process and store statistics in the scope of this Act. However, if these data are to be collected in a way that, for example, is collected by the State's Attorney's Office, and we have had opportunities to see from reports that were discussed two days ago, we will not receive specific data on the elderly population and abuse. Namely, the State Attorney's Office shows data on the victims of domestic violence in a way that separates all victims into only two groups. The first group is made up of children and minors, and the second group is made up of adults. Therefore, this second group of adults should be divided into those up to 65 years of age and over 65 years of age, and this would be a good thing to take into account when sublegal acts are adopted. Because the elderly, as well as the children, are a special group, an powerless group, a group with special needs to be protected and special measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41081	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41082	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen from the government. I am happy to join the debate on domestic violence because I think it is a great social evil and I would like to give some of my contribution to making at least that social evil happen, that is, when I say socially I mean human evil, as little as possible. No wonder domestic violence at all if we are surrounded by violence in society as a whole, therefore the family is just one of the areas of manifestations of violence that is comprehensive and therefore I would like to say a word that I have not heard today that I have even mentioned, nor do I find it in this proposal of the Law on protection against domestic violence. It's a word of education. I think that education is the concept of violence and that perhaps the efforts to raise young people towards the elderly might also reduce domestic violence, and in general in society and not just infractions that occur here. That's why I'd like to affirm some of the values that may have been before, that are lost today because in a different way they are affirmed, but the family has always been in some way the bearer, at least in my worldview and the worldview that we share, and I don't want to put any restrictions there, I think that all religions of this world represent a man in terms of part of a small community of the nuclei family and so on. So it seems to me that the family should be and could be one thing to say fertile ground for the creation of good people, etc., and that good family education radiates towards society rather than that some bad atmospheres of society manifest themselves in a situation in the family. So as an example or an illustration of how these things come into being, I would mention the word swearing that has become so daily in our lives that we don't even feel it anymore, in my opinion, it's a swearing way of expressing in a special mental state when we can't deal with the charge of our emotions to express them in everyday words, then it's a curse to empty out that extra charge, aggression internally. But to someone whose swearing becomes a daily speech then logically to bring aggression, the hand that flies brings the discharge to the one who doesn't curse, the curse brings the discharge. A curse seems less violent to me than a hand that hits someone without saying a leg. So, I think it would be good to affirm these things like raising and family, so that even in the family of violence itself, there would be less. Of course, there are congenital genetic pathology that, regardless of all the efforts of society or other family members, cannot be removed especially by such pathologies, but we also deal with pathologies in different ways. In the sense of the Law, I would like to mention, in particular, Articles 3 and 4. In Article 3a, the family represents a community, Article 3 of all the definitions to which this Law applies, i.e. under family only two of which are mentioned in the community. In fact, it's only mentioned in one place in the community, women and men in the extramarital community, and in the line before women and men in marriage, marriage is a community, so if it's about the extramarital community, it could be said in the marriage community, as can be said both women and men outside of marriage. Only those communities are all others are certain relationships that do not represent the community read like this. The second in Article 4 when it comes to the violence that is being considered and introduced by this law, it seems to me that if it were just this violence which is the subject of sanctioning that it is not enough and that a certain instrument of recognition of new violence should be installed, I cannot speak. The new violence, because the imagination of those who are aggressive and violent is unlimited, assumes that the legislator could not have predicted all types of violence but only registered those violences that are being recognized today, but should also open up the possibility of these new violence that will arise. One of the violence certainly not mentioned in this article 4 is already mentioned violence against parents, according to older members of the family who are not taxed, and is cited as humiliating treatment of children for educational purposes, humiliating treatment and children and other members of the older family. In fact, the need to pass the Law on protection against domestic violence is practically to protect the powerless from those who are physically superior to them, so we have the most violence against women, which is why we have the most violence against children, but there is violence against older people who are physically less powerful than they were before, and it seems to me that the lack of this Law is what does not indicate. I would like to say one more thing, especially in terms of the definition of Article 3 which speaks of guardians, protégés, fosterers, etc., I think there is a very pronounced aggression towards those who have said victims by contract, victims of life support. Unlike life support for a person who has signed such a contract, he becomes completely dependent on the one who cares about him and has virtually no protection for either physical or mental or economic violence mentioned in the same article. So it seems to me that the lack of it is one significant disadvantage that would be good to remove with some amendment, but I am putting it on the table as extremely important. I would mention something else that seems as important to me as the violence that is manifested later, and not at the moment of this violence, it is the shortness of fatherhood and motherhood. We have cases where parents simply get rid of children, give them to homes, different motives are why this is happening, it's noble when someone takes these children and takes care of them as if they're their own, but they're also short of motherhood and paternity if they're not justified by anything but just some selfish intention, I think they should be sanctioned in some way because the manifestations are negatively negative later. Finally, I would like to add just one more thing, supporting the absolute need for the adoption of this Act, but I think that certain adjustments at least as far as my examination is concerned in this regard are useful, I would like to say that a large part of the violence that is envisaged here simply does not seem to be sufficiently sanctioned by the infringement measures as they have been done here, although certain violence, of course by the Penal Code itself, and it seems to me that it should open up the possibility in the direction of redefining some violence that it is not criminal, but that a criminal act, such as in the case of lawless construction, a certain illegal construction may also be treated by a criminal act in a way that the inspector is in doubt whether it is a criminal act or only a violation of the State's been reported to the criminal justice concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41083	Thank you. 2 replicas, first Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41084	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Roshin, has touched this topic from a single level that was extremely interesting and interesting and absolutely supportive, and I would just like to fill out this subject with a brief sentence, and it refers to that we would most likely discuss this much less here today if many would just take the Bible and read the 10 commands of God. Nothing further than that should happen. We would argue much less and raise much less about what you were talking about is, therefore, related to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41085	And Madam Representative Mirjana Feric-Vac replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41086	Thank you very much. The replica is actually part of what Mr. Roshin used to say and mention in terms of innate, pathological preconditions to violence, it's a very difficult one assessment, and I would like it to be slightly different in some other context to some other law, because if they learn that some are racial and other things that are not good with such congenital defects or something. It's basic that you mentioned, which is part of what I was saying in the first line is education. You mentioned family and I agree with that, but I say that the school system is very responsible, so social regulation of what we want through school because the school's raising is not only learning "facts and figures" but is also raising certain settings. You talked about the attitude towards the elderly, and there were several times words about the economic independence of the elderly. I haven't heard in this debate, and here we have two weeks ago marked International Women's Day in the Village, about the economic independence of women in the country who find themselves in the domestic violence process who actually have nowhere to go, neither how nor anyone cares about it. So that's one area that needs to be taken into account, and we're going to look at the budget, we're going to try to make sure that the budget has some items that in this sense will be open to the needs and manifestations of violence of those who are absolutely economically dependent on the community in which they live and have no chance of leaving or being the ones who will process the violence in such communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41087	Replication response, Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41088	My colleagues, of course, I didn't mean it in a racist sense when I said that even though there were once theories in the Soviet Union about how genetics... It doesn't mean anything. It's all about being raised in society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But here's when it... To deny those who need to explain what I was about to say, we are all born with different natures, so these are some of our innate tasks and someone is born as a choleric, aggressive or something like this, someone is born as mild. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wanted to make only one distinction between the violence that arises from some social educational measures, incentives, unlike those of nature, the temperament of someone in itself. I believe you understood me and that it was only in the illustration of this other as one counterpoint. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41089	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Stjepan Adanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41090	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs. I am pleased that all clubs and individual debates have shown that this is a good law, although it is a great law and that in the future it will decide its results on the ground because we think that just by adopting this new law should improve the situation and on this very important and important issue, which means protecting against domestic violence. I'd like to refer to a few of your questions here. Just so he doesn't stay hanging in the air. Namely, SDP club and representative Ms. Romana Jerkovic have asked the question that the Law on Protection in Family Violence does not ensure effective protection of measures that can be imposed on abusers immediately. And you asked the question that in the first reading, it was sort of a better solution. However, I must introduce you or warn you that we, together with the Ministry of the Interior, have worked very long and minimally on this issue and come to one conclusion that if we gave the police officer the authority to remove the abuser or the abuser from the apartment alone without a court ruling, that the provision might fall to us in the Constitutional Court. And that's why we went through this other method where we achieved the same goal. It means that the abuser or the abuser can be dealt with immediately by general regulations, and the general rules are violated, the law and the Law on police affairs and powers, meaning that the abuser can be immediately separated from the apartment. Within 24 hours, we order this law to the court that it must make a decision, means that the police action is covered by that court decision. Otherwise, it would be against the law, in a way we were afraid that it would not, that provision, fall in the Constitutional Court, and then we would not have a valid law. Also, I have written here a proposal from Parliament MP Romana Jerkovic to discuss the creation of a single database on persons who have suffered domestic violence if I understand correctly. We believe that the exact opposite is that we will have a database, but about abusers, that the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity will lead that statistics and that in another way we will have that data, and not that we can further stegmatize victims of violence, that we will put them in some unique database, and you must know very well if we create that unique database that we must then get the consent of these victims of violence to be in that database because if it does not, it will not give approval, then we will have a missing database that certainly would not be anyone, absolutely no one, in the interest. Another question was, as far as I'm concerned, from Mrs. Assembly Representative Mirela Holly. Disturbing members, i.e. family members and several family members by another member and member of the family of the former member and member of the family at work. We did not accept this for a very simple reason, because we said that Article 4 of the final proposal of the law has very broadly defined violence in the family and, among other things, I quote: "tooking or harassing through all means of communication or through electronic and printed media or otherwise communicating with third parties, illegal isolation or endangering freedom of movement." We think that endangerment in the workplace is possible under several descriptions of violence in Article 4 and therefore we think that it is quite enough and quite excellently done. I would now thank everyone once again at the end, really thank everyone for the extraordinary effort you have made in reading this law and in affirmative and constructive discussions, because such discussions can only give birth to even better suggestions. And here I have to mention, because it's simply true, the senior Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of the Family, the Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, today's prime minister who has made great leaps in this decade and in this area, because she has been the stalemate of all these changes for the better that are happening in this area as well. The amendments that you have made here, we will carefully study, we will answer them in an argument within a few days, and then, in some ways, we will vote on them, and that will probably be next week. Thank you very much, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41091	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41092	We are going to vote on the debated items of the agenda. First, the Final Proposal of the Law on Protection against Family Violence was a second reading, P.Z. No. 386. The proposal was proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by representatives Ljubica Lukačić, representative Milanka Opačić and representative Mirela Holy. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. State Secretary Mr. Stjepan Adanic. First, I would like to ask Mrs. Ljubice Lukačić's amendment to Article 20.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41093	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41094	It's acceptable, isn't it? It becomes an integral part of the proposal. It's the first amendment, the second one's the same thing, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41095	Sustained, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41096	So both amendments Mrs. Lukacic were accepted, becoming an integral part of the proposal. Amendment by Ms Milanka Opačić, Article 4?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41097	It is not accepted for the reason that the right to meet and associate a child with family members is governed by a family law by an appropriate decision of the court and agreement of the parents. In case of violated family relations in which one of the parents or members of the joint household prevents or interferes with another parent in the exercise of this constitutional or legal right and duty, the relevant court will determine the conduct of its decision or determine the personal contacts of parents and children. Since it has already been proposed to other regulations, its regulation with the final proposal of the law would be excessive.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41098	Thank you. Mrs. Opacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41099	Mr. Secretary of State, this argument of yours is partly correct. The fact is that many laws define this area, but it is also a fact that it does not work for us in practice. Look at all the statistics and you will see that the largest number of children is unfortunately traumatized by an unquality, conflicting divorce and all that happens afterwards. So it is violence, primarily over a child, when irresponsible parents are counting over his back, not letting a child see one of his parents for years, poisoning the child's relationship with a parent who is no longer in a marriage relationship with another parent and children simply further traumatizes. This is a kind of violence against children, and since it is more and more, and we do not have good mechanisms to deal with it, I ask you to include it in this law as a kind of violence against children and once again strengthen some mechanisms that will protect children because unfortunately we have not done so far, daily there are more and more children who are victims of their irresponsible parents who cannot solve problems as 2 adults but serve their own children as the best object of bickering. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41100	Thank you. I'm asking you to vote on the amendments by raising your hands, it's going faster. Who's in favor of this amendment that the government doesn't normally accept? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Then we have the amendment of Ms. Mirela Holly to Article 4(1).
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41101	The amendment is not accepted. The determination that domestic violence is among other forms of physical violence, and in particular the application of physical force, whether or not physical injury occurred, does not deviate from the current arrangement under the applicable law, which protects the victim in any case of physical violence. Because I'm a physical attack doesn't necessarily condition a physical injury. That provision should not cause problems in the proof that it is already applicable and that the elements of the work in the overall evidence can be demonstrated.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41102	Mrs. Mirela Holly. She's gone? I'm putting this amendment to the vote, who's in favour? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the second Ms. Mirela Holy to Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41103	The amendment is not accepted on the grounds that the provision in question covers a sufficiently wide range of official persons who, in carrying out their activities, may have knowledge of potential perpetrators of acts of domestic violence such as health workers, professional workers in the activities of social care, family prevention and protection, education and professional workers employed in religious institutions, humanitarian organisations, civil society associations in the work of children and families, and the violation of legal sanctions is prescribed to punish those persons unless they report to the police or to the State’s attorney the initiation of domestic violence for which they have learned by carrying out their regular duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41104	Who is for this amendment, Mrs. Holly, which the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the same legislator to Article 11(2)
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41105	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the protective measure of compulsory psychiatric treatment is one of the safeguards prescribed by the law of violation and can only be applied to the perpetrator who committed the offence in a state of significant reduced numbering, if there is a risk that the reasons for such a situation may also in the future act incentivically for the start of a new offence. The purpose of this safeguard is to remove the conditions which allow or encourage the launch of a new infringement by applying it. We also stress that the final proposal of the Law on protection against domestic violence is prescribed that the court can impose on the perpetrators of domestic violence itself, in addition to the safeguard measures prescribed by the law, which includes a measure of compulsory psychiatric treatment, as one of the safeguards and a measure of mandatory psychosocial treatment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41106	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I therefore give thanks, pretty secretary of state, so I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Protection against Family Violence. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This Final Proposal for a Law on Protection against Family Violence was adopted by the majority of votes, 106 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and nothing against, together with the amendments accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41107	We are going to the next item - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the 2006 Maritime Labour Convention, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 455 The legislator is the Government. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate carried out by the Committee on Law, European Integration, Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Željko Tufekčić will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41108	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Appreciable parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. So this law also confirms the 2006 Maritime Labour Convention. The Maritime Labour Convention itself was adopted at the 94th session of the International Labour Organisation in February 2006, which was also attended by the tripartite delegation of the Republic of Croatia. This is about the largest convention ever adopted by the International Labour Organisation and dedicated to the seamen. This Convention includes standards so far contained in almost 60 different instruments and recommendations. This is how harmonisation has been achieved, but also the modernisation of the Convention's standards. The adoption of this Convention has achieved the modernisation of a whole series of provisions contained in instruments in the beginning or middle of the last century, no longer satisfying the modern development of technologies, as well as living and working conditions on board. One of the most significant newspapers of the Convention is the introduction of a system of technical surveillance and certification of ships at the request of the Convention, which so far has only been the subject of conventions that regulate the safety of navigation and protection of the marine environment, namely the instruments of the International Labour Organisation. Because of their importance, they also call this convention a super convention or a 4th-degree global maritime legal arrangement. The convention is not in effect at this time. It will take effect 12 months from the date of registration of the ratification of at least 30 countries with a total gross participation in the world gross tonne of ships of at least 33%. As the Convention has been ratified today by countries with the highest percentage of the world fleet, the terms of tone have been met. Given the European Union's recommendation that Member States ratify the Convention by the end of 2010, its entry into force may be expected by the end of 2011. In the preparation of this law, we consulted the social partners, so the Union of the Seamen of Croatia and Croatia, the Maritime and Broders' Association "Mare Nostrum", who fully supported the ratification of this instrument. In this way, it allows Croatian sailors to prepare in a timely manner for its application since its entry into force. At the same time, Croatia gives a clear sign of its commitment to maritime development, based on the protection of the social and labour rights of the seamen, as well as the provision of decent living and working conditions on ships, regardless of the flag under which they sail. It should not be particularly stressed that this protects the interests of Croatian sailors who are more than two-thirds or about 18 thousand sailing in international navigation on ships of different flags. The value of the 2006 Maritime Labour Convention itself was recognised by the European Union, by the decision of the Council in 2007, empowering Member States to ratify the 2006 Convention on the Work of Seamen and calling on Member States to ratify the Convention as soon as possible and preferably before the end of 2010. In addition, a directive on the application of a contract concluded between the European Union Shipowners' Association and the Federation of European Transport Workers on the 2006 Maritime Labour Convention was adopted in February of this year, which amended the old Directive. The same shall directly implement the provisions of the Convention in the legal system of the European Union in the section relating to the rights and obligations of the social partners. The application of the Directive is related to the date of entry into force of the Convention. Therefore, by adopting this law, the Republic of Croatia is harmonising its legislation with the legal acquis of the European Union in this area, thus proposing the adoption of laws by a hasty procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41109	Thank you. Committees of legislation, European integration, maritime, transport and communications. I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives Mr. Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41110	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The International Labour Organisation called for meetings in 2006 in order to address seamen's working, living and social conditions comprehensively. Until then, these seamen’s life problems were prescribed in nearly 60 different conventions and recommendations. In addition to the unification of 60 conventions of regulations in one convention, it was also important to level standards as a prerequisite for the operation of maritime activities as a global economic branch and, of course, as a guarantee of legal certainty for seamen regardless of the flag of the ship under which they sail. Our Maritime Code contains provisions on the rights of seamen to work and social rights. Also in labour legislation and collective agreements. Although the Convention is not yet in force, the Republic of Croatia wants to ratify it as soon as possible to demonstrate its commitment to the development of seas on the basis of the protection of the social and labour rights of the seamen, as well as to ensure decent living and working conditions on board ships. It's not said for nothing that it's a life with seven crusts. And more than the sailors say, you don't have to live, but you have to sail. The convention is expected to ratify a sufficient number of countries over the coming year, to take effect, although it has already been ratified by countries with the highest percentage of the world fleet, which is also one of the conditions for entry into force. Of course, by adopting this convention, it becomes part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia, and that is exactly what we want, because we as a maritime country and even more of the countries whose sailors sail on foreign ships around the world want to make our full contribution to achieving the work and protection of the rights of the seamen. The HDZ Club strongly supports the adoption of this Convention on the work of sailors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41111	Thank you. The club of representatives of HSS Mr. Representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41112	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'll take a few sentences on this convention. The 2006 Maritime Labour Convention was adopted at 94. The International Labour Organisation convention in Geneva on 23 February 2006 in the work involving the delegation of the Republic of Croatia. The adoption of that Convention has led to the modernisation and harmonisation of standards relating to all areas of life and work of the seamen and a basis for ensuring legal certainty for the seamen regardless of the flag of the ship under which they sail has been created. This is due to the fact that the legal framework in the field of working, living and social conditions has so far been laid down in almost 60 different conventions and recommendations adopted under the auspices of the International Labour Organisation, which in any case makes it difficult to apply and monitor the application of these same legal rules. Maritime and social rights in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia are governed by the Law of the Sea and by general labour legislation as well as collective agreements. Considering that, given the global nature of the shipping industry, sailors need special protection of conventions as a single instrument, it includes all the latest standards of the existing conventions and recommendations on international maritime work. It is also important to note that, following the fulfilment of the conditions relating to the number of instruments lodged for ratification, the entry into force of the Convention may be expected during 2010. The Council Directive of 16 February 2009 which is implemented in the contract concluded between the European Union Shipowners' Association and the European Federation of Workers on the Transport of the 2006 Maritime Labour Convention will enter into force at the same time as the Convention where binding standards of the Convention will become part of the legal acquis of the European Union. As a result of the fact that any country wishing to join the European Union must comply with its legislation with the legal acquis of the European Union, the adoption of this law is confirmed by the 2006 Convention on the Labour of Seamen in order to ensure that its provisions within the meaning of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia after meeting the conditions for its entry into force became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Although the rules of the Convention aim to ensure the highest possible acceptability between governments, shipowners and sailors bound by the principles of decent work, its ratification and implementation in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia are not denied the right of the Republic of Croatia to lay down more favourable conditions for seamen, workers working in any property on board. The present Convention shall cover articles, rules and codes... and the rules express the basic principles, rights and fundamental obligations of the ratification members of the Convention. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Code contains details for the application of the rules and covers mandatory standards and optional guidelines. The rules and codes are laid down in five main chapters, the minimum requirements for the work of seamen on board, conditions of employment, accommodation and means of rest, nutrition and food service, health protection, health care, social care and safety, as well as satisfaction and enforcement. The articles and rules of the Convention have been set up by solid groups of rights and principles. The Code allows for a certain degree of free conduct in the way these rights are applied and the principle which leaves a broader framework for a more free decision in relation to the procedural rules established at national level. Since the provisions of Article 10 of the Convention provide for a full list of the existing conventions to be revised by this Convention, its validation shall not require the suspension of existing conventions at the same time. However, in accordance with Article 5 of the Convention, the Republic of Croatia will, after the entry into force of the Convention, be responsible for its implementation and application and in this respect be obliged to implement and implement the laws, rules and other measures adopted in the manner in which this Convention is established. The 2006 Convention on the Labour of Seafarers allows the Convention to become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia and to comply with the legal regulations of the European Union for Croatian legislation. Following the above, we at the HSS Club support the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the 2006 Maritime Labour Convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41113	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41114	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The 2006 Convention on the Work of Seamen, which is adopted under an emergency procedure, is another one in a series of laws in which the legislation of the Republic of Croatia is harmonised with the legislation of the European Union. At the meeting of the International Labour Organisation held in February 2006, where the Labour, Life and Social Rights Convention was consolidated and among 104 Member States' delegations also participated in the delegation of the Republic of Croatia. The Seafarer Labour Convention was then adopted at that session. Although the 2000 convention has adopted and adopted over 100 countries, the fact is that at the moment the convention is not yet in force. In fact, the adoption of the Council of Europe Directive in February of this year created a legal basis for the implementation of the Treaty on the Functioning of Seamen Convention concluded in May last year. That Directive could therefore enter into force at the same time as the Maritime Labour Convention. Article 8 governing the entry into force of this Convention in paragraph 3 states that this Convention shall enter into force 12 months from the date of registration of at least 30 members with a global gross tonne of at least 33%. If over a hundred countries have ratified this Convention and these are countries with the highest percentage of the world fleet, then one of the main conditions for entry into force of this Convention is met. Since the largest number of instruments of ratification can be expected in 2010 it would be realistic to expect the law to enter into force in 2011. Now and until the Convention on the Labour of Seafarers enters into force in the current legislation, the provisions of the seamen's labour and social rights are set out in the Maritime Code, in general labour law and collective agreements. It should be noted that, with effect from this Convention, 40 of the 60 existing different conventions and recommendations adopted so far under the International Labour Organisation will be revised and brought into line, all in order to modernise and bring standards into line in the field of working, living and social conditions of seamen. For the International Labour Organisation, the harmonisation of standards is a prerequisite for the action of the global industry as maritime as well as a guarantee of ensuring the rights of the seamen regardless of the flag under which they sail. The rules and codes, articles and rules express the essence of rights and principles, while the code contains details for the application of the rules. The Convention shall aim to establish its members and rules a solid group of rights and principles, to allow through the Code a desirable degree of free conduct of members in the way they apply these rights and principles. Finally, appropriate application and implementation of the rules and principles. Article 9 of the Convention provides that a member who has ratified this Convention may also cancel it after 10 years have elapsed from the date on which the Convention first entered into force by an act addressed to the Director-General of the International Labour Office for registration. Each Member which is not within one year of the end of a period of ten years has exercised the right to terminate provided for in this Article will be bound by this Article for a period of ten years and may then cancel this Convention. In any event, the ratification of this Convention, adopted by over a hundred countries, gives a clear sign of the commitment of the Republic of Croatia to the development of maritime development on the basis of the protection of the social and labour rights of seamen as well as the provision of decent living and working conditions on board ships. That is why I am going to support this proposal, so I am going to support that this proposal has my support and that the Law on Confirmation of the Maritime Labour Convention is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41115	Thank you. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41116	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So it is absolutely certain that this 2006 Law of Confirmation of the 2006 Maritime Labour Convention will come upon the approval of all of us in the Croatian Parliament because it really regulates all areas of life and the work of the seamen and while they are on board, but I would say outside the ship. Because a good part of the articles also refers to their safety and health and the prevention of accidents and all that is needed to respond to demanding tasks while on board. But it also determines the safety that arises after the loss and sinking of the ship has led the sailors into an unfavourable situation to remain unemployed and that is also the issue resolved by this Convention. For a reason, this convention is called a super convention because it unites a number of other conventions and thus actually regulates up to in detail the overall, I would say the entire standards and standards for the employment of sailors and their safety in this regard. What is raised as a question of whether Croatian shipowners will respond to these requirements put before shipowners, whether they will succeed in all the details of this Convention. But given that we have already done very positively and arranged this area through the Maritime Code, I am convinced that these preconditions created by the Maritime Code, which really means a significant step both for the seamen and for the shipowners, will in some way, that all our shipowners will meet all these criteria and standards set before them by adopting this Convention. Of course, the convention will come into effect as soon as conditions are established. We expect it to be 2010, especially after the European Commission's recommendations, because it will certainly ratify all members of the European Union. And I am sure that this date that is scheduled, so 2010 will be the date of application of this convention on the work of sailors. What is extremely important is that fundamental rights, labour rights, and then protection of human rights are dealt with in this Convention as well, for example, by one of the first chapters at least of age. So no children are allowed to work on ships. The minimum age is according to conventions that have been in force for 16 years. Of course, that's what's left in this convention right now. But what's important is, say, the night work on the ship must not be a person younger than 18 years old. That's also important. So it is vital that these fundamental rights are also respected. It is about an occupation that in some ways touches all the coasts of the world and touches all the shipowners and the world’s companies. And in this sense, it is extremely important that in some ways 2/3 of our sailors who are on foreign ships, some of them, and I personally know that in some ways through this convention, they actually get as much rights as possible and as much security as possible. It is extremely important, and let's say this approach to the Navy's procurement and employment services as you can see is free of charge for the seamen. This is also very important, because there have been cases of seafarers having to pay for this availability and in this sense it is extremely important, as are these contracts that must be decent and of course the issue of training in which Croatia is ahead, because Croatian maritime schools are certainly one of the best maritime schools not only in Europe but also in the whole world and Croatian sailors are highly appreciated and sought on all ships and in commercial fleets. So, what is important is that our sailors who are on foreign ships through this application, i.e. through the beginning of the application of this Convention, I would say a more peaceful dream on those ships. In fact all that is, what is happening on board is the subject of this convention on the work of sailors, and so are the accommodation rooms, rest rooms, food, service. It's all regulated in a very, very good way. And I'm saying, it's just a wish for me to get to the application of this convention as soon as possible, and of course all our shipowners and all our sailors are enjoying themselves, I'd say that I'd like to bless this convention on the work of the seamen and that they have a safer and better future. Here, therefore, we welcome the adoption of this convention, which will certainly be accepted in the Croatian Parliament. And so it will be a calm and good sea for our seamen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41117	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal for a law on the confirmation of the 2006 Maritime Labour Convention, Proposer of the Government. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the 2006 Maritime Labour Convention. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 101 votes for and 1 abstention has been passed the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41120	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The law on mandatory and real air relations was passed in 1998, amended in 2008. Also, I would like to remind you, in May 2008, the Agreement on a Common European Aviation Area, etc., was ratified. The ECAA agreement, which aims at full harmonisation of Croatian national legislation, of course in the area of air traffic with EU legislation. The adoption of this law is also foreseen by the national programme for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union for 2009, and the most important parts are those relating to the rights of air passengers and the liability of carriers. Let me also mention that in March 2008, the Republic of Croatia entered into force for it the Convention on the Equality of Certain Rules for International Air Transport, etc. Montreal Convention. Since the difference between the domestic internal territory of the European Union and international transport has been lifted in the European Union, therefore transport with third countries, as regards passenger rights and air transport responsibilities, and since the Montreal Convention regulates only international transport, it is necessary that the Law on Mandatory and Real-Law Relations be implemented by the EU Regulations containing the decisions contained in the Montreal Convention. In this way, the system of liability of carriers and in international and domestic air transport of the Republic of Croatia, which will, of course, result in the strengthening of air passenger protection measures. I would also like to mention briefly that we are in compliance with two regulations, a regulation laying down common rules on compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of cancellation and cancellation and cancellation or delay of flights, and a Regulation on the liability of air carriers in the event of an accident. All questions are at our disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41121	Thank you. The Committee on Law, European Integration, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. The chairman of the board, Mr. Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41122	Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament held on 21 October of this year discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory and Real Legal Relations in Air Transport as a home working body. The opening statement was given by a proposing representative, who said the provisions concerning air passenger rights and the liability of the carrier should be brought in line with the relevant EU rules, which is also one of the conditions of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. He also stressed that the difference between the domestic, or internal territory of the European Union and international transport has been lifted in the European Union. As far as passenger rights and responsibilities of the air carrier are concerned. In view of the fact that the Montreal Convention regulates only international transport, it is necessary in this law to implement EU regulations containing within them solutions from the Montreal Convention, in order to level the system of liability of carriers both in international and domestic air transport in the Republic of Croatia. Without discussion, the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications proposes to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory and Real Legal Relations in Air Transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41123	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HNS representative's club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41124	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected legislator, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will say very briefly, teaching at the opening exhibition, teaching the presentation of Mr. Chairman of the Committee, club, representatives of the CNS will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory and Real Legal Relations in Air Transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41125	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Drazen Breglec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41126	I thank you for your support, for your committees, for your clubs. And I express my belief that air passenger rights will be better, that the regulation that regulates it will be clearer and more unequivocal. All we have left is to control and pay attention to the consistent application of the right of passengers in the Republic of Croatia so far, and, of course, to the fact that they are needed and to inform them in the places provided for in the regulations. I am also taking the opportunity to conclude myself on the adoption of the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives, so the proposer accepts both amendments to the Legislatives Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41127	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory and Real Legal Relations in Air Transport, P.Z.E. 457, the promoter is the Government. The amendments were submitted by the Economic Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendment committees and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory and Real Legal Relations in Air Transport. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? In agreement with 101 votes, the proposed law was passed along with the amendment adopted. The Legislative Committee proposes to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion that reads: The Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament is authorised to publish a revision of the text of this law before publication in the National Journal. I am voting on the proposal for this conclusion. Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? In agreement with 97 votes, the proposed conclusion in the text was reached as proposed by the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41130	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. I will be, I will try to be as brief as possible, even though this report for the past year would require a wider evaluation. However, allow me to focus before I focus on the 2008 report and the results of the business, to return you with some information to a nearer history, which is in 2002, when the Financial Agency was set up by the Financial Agency Act as a legal follower of the Institute of Payments. The creation of the Agency is related to the transformation of the business system of the Department of Payments, which meant transformation from monopolitical to market-oriented agency. Therefore, in 2002 when payment transport reform in the Republic of Croatia came into effect it is on the market. The role and position on the market, the role and position on the market of FINA has been ensured as a third "side" in payment transactions using the option it has been left for such positioning. Also since 2002, I would give you several indicators of business, i.e. trends which were and are one of the important reasons why FINA achieved a negative financial result in the second year in 2008. So in the period from 2008, 2003 to 2008, business revenues fell at an average rate of 2.7% over the year. Furthermore, the share of staff costs in business revenues increased by an average of 4.5% per year and reached 52.1% at 41.7% in 2003. The other day, we were in HR yesterday that without FINE, public companies have about 26% of the staff costs in the total cost structure and we have 52.1. In the years of positive business and this was the period of 2003, the result from business activity fell at an average rate of 54.5% per year, so this refers to profit from financial assets. And when the profit of financial assets is included, the decline in total annual business income on average is 59.3%. What is also interesting is that during that period from 2002 to 2008 total long-term assets whose value fell at a rate of 1.1% per year are the only growing share of immaterial assets whose value grew at an average rate of 21.2% per year. However, it is an interesting structure of this immaterial property, which represents a share of foreign, so-called intellectual property, while the value of the property that should be the result of ownership research and development activities fell at 30%. The opinion of my own but also of the administration, which has led to such trends, which is the cause of these business indicators of the Financial Agency. We divided them into two groups from the outside and from the inside. I'm not going to elaborate every single one of our detected services, but I'm just going to tax them. As the external reasons for such financial business indicators, the first is the loss, as said, of the monopoly in payment transactions, the second orientation of banks to revenues from services, in other words, to explain it a little bit. The banking system of Croatia as well as the banking systems of other countries have increasingly resorted and focused on increasing the unfailing revenues or revenues from services and compensation of those who represented the most significant market segment on which FINA took place. And the third external cause for us would be a significant impact of technological progress in the development of replacement products or services of the Financial Agency. So technological progress in Internet and other IT solutions makes a significant part of the traditional FINA services unnecessary and overpriced by questioning the economic sustainability of the business network based on these services. First of all, here I think of Internet banking and other services where technology has done its part and unfortunately in the traditional way of doing these services FINA presents... FINA cannot be competitive because of the price of these services. Internally, according to us, the internal reasons that led to this, it's also tax-based wrong strategic orientation towards key clients, and I mean banks in particular. It happened in one period of 2003 and 2005, when banks unfortunately began to be considered not only the main strategic partner of the Financial Agency, but as a competitor and which unfortunately led to the fact that the bank's revenues fell quite in the highest percentage over the past few years. Furthermore, the next internal cause for us is quite high investment without sometimes additional market justification and with questionable effects. Furthermore, the neglect of the basic activity and the development of high value added products by the FINA itself, which enabled the transition of the financial agency and its positioning on the market as out-sourcing so that the company which provides services in payment services, cash processing and business for the State. Furthermore, it is definitely a fact that both found and existing still three inefficient organisations within the Financial Agency itself, which does not allow FINA to be a little more aggressive on the market and that FINA is more ousting products and services with a higher value added but from the employees of the Financial Agency themselves. Furthermore, let's not run away from the lack of strategic access to asset management as well as one reason why there has been no strategic approach to asset income so far. FINA, as you know very well, has 1 billion kuna worth of property, is primarily meant by construction facilities, which unfortunately because of the loss of some jobs are no longer operational, but things change, I'll say it later in this segment. Unfortunately, the impact on such results was also... expert due to an inappropriate system of wages and rewards. Today our day still binds the contract with the social partner in 2002 where not only the material rights but also the other rights of employees are such that they put a considerable financial burden on the financial agency and in that part certain activities in the elimination and that part of the burden have been launched. Now he'd be focusing on just the financial agency's business for the past year. As you have in the Financial Agency's report, so for the second year in a row it records the negative financial result of business. In 2007, it was 22 million 616 thousand kuna, while last year it was '08. Therefore, the financial loss, i.e. the loss of 34 million and 413 thousand kuna. Much of the reasons I mentioned through trends that have taken place in the last few years, but the most important reason that happened was the policy, i.e. the decision of the Croatian Post Office to take over the processing of all payment orders from the Croatian Post Office, and the revenue that was to be achieved on this basis is practically identical to the loss achieved in the past year, which would amount to 334 million kuna. And the loss was achieved as I said 34 million and 413 thousand kuna. Income, perhaps a commentary from the income itself. Sometimes I still think perception is public that the Financial Agency, given the ownership structure because it is 100% owned by the state, on the mangers of the state, i.e. that it gets most of the revenue from the state budget. But that's not the way things are. All 22.4% are revenues from the state and this is registered in the sector by the service for the state, and the rest is done in commercial affairs. And regardless of the biggest losses that have been achieved in 2 segments, which is payment traffic and cash business. The financial agency of those 2 sectors still generates the highest income, 60.8%. I wouldn't talk about the other incomes. You see, there has only been an increase in the segmental payment turnover in cash-paying transactions, so where it is done in business with the population. So this is also said in the further trust that the population has in the institution, which is the Financial Agency. Maybe a few words should say more about the cost structure. I mentioned the cost of staff in the total expenditures of the Financial Agency, which is 49.1%, i.e. total expenditures when the extraordinary expenditures are added and the negative contributions from the financial assets carried as I previously said 52.1%. Unlike other public companies that have status like "FINA" where this percentage is much smaller and amounts, according to the data we read, 26.7% in the total cost structure. That's not why you pay a lot of money. The financial agency has not changed for the past 10 years, i.e. it has not increased the salaries of its employees but the primary reason is in too many employees, and one of the measures that I will later mention is the provision of a determined technical surplus without which the Financial Agency, without whose organisation unfortunately for 2.3 years, estimates are such as to accumulate a loss that would amount to more than 300 million kuna, then the survival of the complete Financial Agency itself is questionable. What we did last year, and it is not visible in the report itself as a new administration that received a mandate with the 01st March of last year, following the footage of the situation there were several projects that should lead to restructuring, and hence to the consolidation of the situation at the Financial Agency and thus the long-term positioning of "FINE" as a respectable factor in the financial industry to say briefly. And I'm just taxing to say which projects have been launched. Some of them are completed, and that crucial, main project, which is the Programme for the Management of Technological Excess Employees is in the final phase and this programme is done with trust in a transparent way together with the social partner. Of course, there are still some things that need to be done, but I may not be overly optimistic, but I think by the end of the year that program of care with the consent of our social partner should be delivered to the Employment Service and then started to take care. Which does not mean that, when it will be, it is not at the moment, but when the number of excessive employees will really be established, that it does not mean the street but it means the settlement. These are all possible measures of stimulative severances, requalifications, the programme is in the final phase, the requalification programme, as new jobs are also being launched by the employees of the Financial Agency. I wouldn't burden you with technical data like the number of employees, I can only say that the founding state was 5 thousand and 12 people, employed in 2008, and with today it's 4000 412 employees. And what's important is that the current topic is indivisibility, I have to say that, regardless of the financial results shown on 31.08., the financial agency had no outstanding obligations and carried them out within the deadline, regardless of the fact that the worse economic conditions have increased the payment deadline. And the payment deadline rose from 31.12.2007 from 137 days to 149 days, so 12 days excessively extended the payment of our claim. With the "FINA" in line with its policies on financial policies fulfilling its obligations and the average implementation of the obligations is 72 days and otherwise the sum of our contracts has been concluded that "FINA" is undermining its obligations within 90 days. So "fina" didn't contribute to the general indifference in society. And the conclusion, a brief conclusion, i.e. seeing the administration how to consolidate to the end fine, or to restructure. Three unscheduled tasks are clearly visible on the internal plan. And this is the care of extra employees, the transformation of business towards the creation of new products that will generate income in an efficient and cost-effective way, and the introduction of existing jobs that generate loss in the constitutive business area. And it deserves the same elaborate, but I wouldn't burden you. So I've listed projects that are ongoing, which should and we're confident that the financial agency in 2010, unfortunately this year will not happen, should be a positive business. And if I will still have a mandate until that date, I will be very pleased to present my business for 2009, and this will be a positive financial result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41131	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget. I'm opening a debate. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41132	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. In a debate on behalf of the club on some of our usual schedules, I should have been third. You called me first. I don't know, there's probably some reason. But regardless of this reading this 2008 FINA business report, listening to this argument by the president of the administration, it is actually difficult, extremely difficult to adopt a position, to bring the court to vote on this point. Only the report is properly written, usually by the norms, by the usual norms. What it says in that report is definitely not something that could satisfy us and I don't see that reason why I don't accept this report. However, when we go a little deeper, when, and thank God we remember, our memory is that FINA is the follower of an extremely successful financial agency, regardless of what she was forced to do, as the chairman of the FINA administration is saying to transform from that former SDK or the "Communist" agency to the marketing agency. But the fact is that the former SDK was a top agency, it was a Croatian brand, as counterpart Jelash said the other day, was a Croatian brand and about the speed of payment in terms of the efficiency of payment traffic, and I especially stress that in particular, controlling. And when you compare the former SDK's functioning, it doesn't matter what the "Communist Agency" is. But that agency had fast pay traffic, efficient, cheap and I repeat, it had control over it. Following everything that's happened at a time when this agency is transformed from communist to market, everything that's happened, it's visible how lacking that function is in control. And that's where you ask a very legitimate question. Did that happen by any chance? Did this agency happen to be collecting the results it's adding up today? It is still presented as the leading Croatian company in the area of financial business. Based on a long business tradition, there's definitely a reason. However, whether there are elements and according to this report that we are discussing today, whether it has elements based on what we heard from the president of the administration, whose exposure shrunk 90% before 2008, a little bit in 2008, and at least about the future. Does this give us the right to continue to call this agency as the leading Croatian company in the area of financial business? The fact is, all these years, there's been wandering around a business strategy, the fact is that there's been a loss of a monopoly in pay traffic. Is it by any chance the same question, by any chance? The fact is, the agency couldn't be transformed into what it could have been, the fact that and we heard in the introduction, that the agency recorded a continuous decline in all business indicators. And now you're asking the key question. Who's responsible? Management? No, I don't. The Board of Supervisors? Yeah. Who's representing the Supervisory Board? Owner. Who owns it? State. And there's a key main problem, all these years. The owner of this agency from a very successful agency with great potential, with excellent hardware, high-end software, has today put us in a position to have hardware, facilities, real estate. And now there's one more question. Is this story, by any chance, continuing to reduce FINA's business activity? Is that by any chance based on the potential that this agency has in real estate? And in the software section, they wander around, they pay for consulting houses. The consulates write strategies. Which of these strategies is involved in the FINA business? We don't know. But in any case, the one involved is inefficient because FINA is operating at a loss and the worst at this point threatens over a thousand layoffs. To preserve itself, which is completely normal and justified purely from an economic point of view, threatens to quit. I believe that in the club of the Croatian People's Party it would be responsible, above all, for Croatian citizens because Croatian citizens are the owners of the FINA that the chairman of the Supervisory Board is speaking here today about the business of the FINA, because it is the chairman of the Supervisory Board and the Supervisory Committee who must take care of... the society or control of the administration whether it is quality, well-leaded in the public interest of this public institution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But he's not here. But there's still a question of who's responsible. The president of the administration mentioned both external and internal reasons. He said wrong strategic positioning among the outside. Who is responsible for the wrong strategic positioning? The Management Board and the Supervisory Board. Misinvestment, management or supervisory committee shall be controlled by management. Disposal of basic activities, management or control of the Supervisory Board. FINA's inefficient organisation, organised by the Management Board, is controlled by the Supervisory Board. Property management. So, colleagues and colleagues, I think it's clear to all of us if we want it to be clear, first of all, if we're ready and with all these negative events lately, I think we need to talk about the supervisory committees because in this case, in the case of the FINA, we are, in the opinion of the Croatian People's Party club, we've become the most involved because in addition to the importance of the financial agency, in addition to the uncertain fate of over a thousand people who are going to be fired for inaction because it seemed that FINA would not be in this situation. We believe that we also need to talk about the Supervisory Board and we believe that the Supervisory Board of the Financial Agency must explain to the citizens of Croatia and we are definitely representatives of the citizens of Croatia here in the Croatian Parliament as well as how it was managed by something we had, unfortunately we do not have but they have others. In any case, we at the Croatian People's Party Club are asking the Supervisory Board to set up a sustainable strategy for the preservation and possible development of FINA because of the general interest and because of those employed in this financial agency. I repeat in the end, it is hard for me to say on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club how to vote on this report because the report is correctly written but that crime committed against that agency is really difficult to support and almost impossible and it would be hypocritical to support it and therefore depending on whether and how and how we decide to vote. But in any case, we condemn the responsibility of the owner, the responsibility of the supervisory board on the positioning of the FINA and the way and system of management of the FINA, a top agency that has been brought practically into a positionlessly with over 4,000 employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41133	Thank you. Two corrections. Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41134	You told your colleague, Korajevic, at one point, later on you relativized it as if the administration had no part of its responsibility. The administration of course bears the frontal main part of the responsibility and it is clear as a day that they and the Law on Commercial Society.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41135	What are you correcting, what claim?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41136	Correcting, colleague Koračević said if it was the administration's fault. No, it's the board of directors. It's the owner's fault. I share that responsibility, I would not esculpate and it is right to say and management because it has people who have the only reference that are members of the HDZ as members of Mr. Simunovic's administration. You know very well who brought him and how he came. And speaking of the Supervisory Board, so what we're talking about in the Esposian language, we know who's cheering and dressing, Mr. Ivan Schuker, president of the FINA Supervisory Board. And the report is not correct because it hides the key thing and it's the clan battle of the two clans in the FINA that's caused FINA to fall into place for a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41137	Ms. Nevenka Majdenic is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41138	Representative Koracevic said there should be a chairman of the board of directors here, that there can be no chairman of the administration. It's really not true. The president of the board here can tell you anything you want to know. But speaking of who's to blame, whether the board of directors, then Mr. Koracevic, you said that the former SDK is a top brand. Top pay traffic, everything, control, why in 2002 you abolished SDK. It's your responsibility, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41139	What's incorrect, colleague Majdenic? The club of representatives of HSS Mr. Representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41140	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Board. We at the HSS Club will still stick to the Annual Report on FINA's 2008 business without spreading a particular topic, although I will also relate to this. As regards financial agencies as a follower of the Institute of Payments, she continued to provide financial, administrative and information-communication services to her clients and continuously improves the quality of services, expands the range of services, opens some new businesses. FINA also shows its social dimension through many sponsorships, donations and so on. In last 2008 FINA opened new businesses in Rijeka, Vodice and Zadar, in all of Croatia applied its own course list, introduced new on line models of accounting services, paid dividends of Croatian defenders from Homeland War and members of their families, took significant steps to encourage Croatian exports and support exporters, participated in building more accessible, simpler and faster urban and county administrations through projects and cities and counties, and in its work it shows quality and innovation for which FINA was awarded not from certificates and for the new service FINA was awarded for the best innovation in high technologies. At the end of 2008, 4000 519 workers were employed. At the beginning we saw more than 5 thousand years and most of them in the Regional Centre Zagreb 38%. It is interesting to know that the most employees are over 50 years old, means age, and that is 33% and the average professional equipment of as many as 63% of employees. There are only 16% of high-skilled employees, and only 35% of the employees are under 40 years old. According to the report, FINA employees have the ability to educate, and during 2008, an internal education was conducted in the field of communication, presentation and sales skills, as well as stress management and time management. This included education under the ECDL programme. Although FINA's staff policy is given considerable attention to the report, it does not show whether the number of highly educated employees is on the rise, decline or stagnating. Does this concern the fact that FINA is more prone to introducing innovation into its business, and we must certainly recognise that employees are over 50 years old, although the extensive work experience is still exposed to great pressure and stress due to the introduction of newspapers in business that must be mastered. And it is evident from the report that out of 4519 employees, only 659 were sent to seminars, professional trainings and education outside of FINA. These data indicate that a very small number of employees participate in the creation of FINA business policy, i.e. a very small number of employees have been trained professionally to carry out complex business processes. This also indicates that 9 regular and 2 extraordinary audits were carried out in 2008, with as much as 56 recommendations accepted, some of which are still in the status of implementation. Unfortunately, there are no audit findings as well as the content of the recommendations, but to conclude that there are certain problems in the business or functioning of FINA that deserve more attention as well as us as the Croatian Parliament. Finally, the chairman of the administration himself stressed in the opening statement the existence of difficulties faced in the FINA last year, and the difficult conditions of business were also stressed, but it was not explained what it was about, although one part of it was now heard from this oral explanation of the president of the administration. From all of this, it is to conclude that the Financial Agency still has some success in dealing with all the challenges it faces in its business. We hope there won't be any extra workers in FINA and firing them, that care will be carried out in the best possible way. And finally, one comparison we heard here at the pay phone here at the pay phone on behalf of the club, one of the clubs. It is difficult to compare the time at which SDK worked as a monopoliest and today this time at which he must do business, FINA. We would have found countless other companies that worked in the former state in one way. Today it's completely, completely different. With much luck and success, the HSS Club will support this 2008 FINA Report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41141	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41142	Well, I've got to fix an esteemed colleague and friend from the HSS. Namely, like this information that the lady inserted in 2002, the thousand times-repeated lie becomes true. Unfortunately, theirs is not so. Austria and Germany envied the former Yugoslavia, and especially Croatia, and from the 1990s to the 1990s until the SDK was abolished, all the outside partners envied that we had an institution through which payment traffic was managed to move faster. Today the banks, because there is no monopolism, the banks retain for three, four days the funds of the businessmen they have among your ranks, and that in fact the project of shutting down ZAP is a project of a thought-out policy to transfer profits and get to the banking institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41143	HDZ club, Ms. Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41144	Dear Mr. Vice President, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club considered the 2008 Annual FINA Report and proposed that it be accepted. The FINA’s business as a state financial agency must be seen in the context of the specificity of its creation, transformation, restructuring, tasks and objectives set before it. From this point of view, we must not analyse the performance of its business only from the point of view of the economic indicators of its performance. We need to be aware that FINA is not a classical financial institution of the type of business banks which is the basic motive of business profit, i.e. to achieve the greatest profit for the owner. Through its very wide network of businesses and outposts, it meets the daily needs of its clients and in the most remote places throughout Croatia that are not attractive, nor interesting to other financial institutions. The entire population is neither educated nor equipped for modern forms of Internet banking payments, so FINA remains the only option for them to carry out financial transactions, pensions, exchanges. It has over 140 foreign money exchange offices and other financial information and services. I think that's basically where the value of FINA lies that small things, small services, mean a lot to these people, and the state as the owner of FINA has to take care of these little people under quotes that don't bring profits but need services. On the other hand, in terms of improving the performance of FINA, the reorganisation and consolidation continued in 2008 to continue further restructuring and adaptations to a very demanding financial market. Several new projects and IT solutions have been created and a number of IT services are being increased in the direction of retaining the existing conquest of the new market. New accounting services have been offered, the issue of credits, the management of various registers, and successful projects related to public offering of shares have been successfully completed, the payment of dividends from the Croatian Defence Fund of the Homeland War and their families. In 2008, strategic co-operation with the Government of the Republic of Croatia was continued to implement national projects and to launch new cooperation projects aimed at local communities. This project is all about the "Informatisation of the City" projects that should build a more efficient and accessible city administration. This project has already been signed with 12 cities and one county. FINA is an organisation with a long tradition and its employees by number and qualification structure meet the needs of the organisation of operations that it deals with in a more traditional way. Technological progress and the drop in the volume of work leads to a constant reduction in the number of workers, so that in 2008, the number of workers was reduced by 216 employees. The decline in the number of employees has been constant since 2004. All workers who have stopped their employment relationship have been properly taken care of, taking into account the social situation of workers. For her work and efforts to improve the system, manage quality and develop innovation, FINA received an e-account award "Golden Tesla Egg" and several certificates as a recognition for improvement and quality of work. Respecting these facts, as well as the 2009-2012 transition strategy of the FINA, whose production was completed and which developed the development strategy towards positive market business, we at the Croatian Democratic Community club believe this report is objectively, realistically, and we suggest that it be accepted as such in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41145	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41146	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I have to say that the SDP club is in doubt what to do about the report. The report suggests that we have no strategy in the FINA, that we have no decisive steps in the FINA, that we delay problems, that in the FINA we simply create losses, we endanger employees. And that's what the report says very clearly and unequivocally. It seems few people have come from the economic sector, six years for transition you consider a short period of time. The economy has one year to adapt to the market. A year. We in six years of transition of FINA are far from what was the beginning of the transition. And that's worrying data. It is something that must move us to be dissatisfied. It's something that we here in the Parliament cannot accept that individuals delay solutions. And they expect us to settle this in 2010, 2011, 2012. Now I'm asking if we understand what we're saying to the economy. We ask the economy to adapt within six months to the market relations crisis, and leave them alone. And when it comes to companies for which the government has been responsible for six years is small, it takes another three years. Nine years, where are we going to be? Where we'll be with FINA. But now I'm moving on to what's most important. What made such an organization? Is that why he should continue his payments and compete with banks or do something else? So you see that you looked at all the documents when the lab was written about FINA, then we made it very clear that the Financial Agency owned by the Republic of Croatia was primarily supposed to be a database, a variety of data. What various databases should have served the most for the needs of the Croatian state. Most of all for the needs of the Croatian state. Because we have estimated that the competition of payment banks will not be effective. What does the database mean for the needs of the Croatian state? Well, it was a time when we slowly introduced more and more so-called. independent regulators, market regulators, financial regulators. And what happened in that same period that we're carrying out the FINA transition? We also create bulk machines at the Competition Agency, both in HANFA, and in the regulatory section of telecommunications, postal. So, what are we doing? On the one hand, we are burdened to solve 4000 employees. On the other hand, we build up the number of employees in the mass of regulatory bodies. Instead of this agency being organized to be a database for the operation of all regulatory bodies. Now we've created a huge number of employees, and nothing has been solved here, and in the administrative bodies, the mass of the administration. Because regulators don't need administration, they need what's called the administration that's going to decide on the database that's supposed to be received by FINA. Obviously, we missed it. Obviously, it is not a dilemma in front of us whether by rationalising the administration, we will reduce employees in regulatory bodies that are nothing more than an administrative chamber, which once again creates its own base. And the biggest problem is every agency is a monopoly for itself. He's got his own base. A base that no one else can use. The biggest wars have always been between the tax administration and the FINA, because everyone holds their own base, doesn't allow entry. Instead of making sure that the Croatian government created unique transparent bases that were to be organised by FINA, it was to be on the market, and these data were to be created, used by the mass of regulatory bodies, the state administration itself, local self-government, business systems and business banks. In six years, we've missed it completely. And of course, even now it has happened that the post office has also taken payment traffic, the Croatian Post Bank of FINA and is simply creating losses and there are no solutions. But because of what we have directed payment traffic towards the Financial Agency, which is an independent body that will work on the joint bases of the Republic of Croatia, to be a transparent system, so that it is not private property of the tax administration, that it is not private property of the Agency for the Protection of Competition. If he didn't keep it like, I'd say, the military secret of HANFA, etc. We didn't take care of that. And of course the government of the Republic of Croatia bears full responsibility for that, I would say the financial part of the ministers sitting in the government and who should have taken care of it. With this kind of organization that we spent in six years, we slowly turned to not even seeing what the purpose of FINA was. We can't see. Those joint bases are gone. Who's gonna do it tomorrow? How do we unite them? They don't have a single word in this material. This is why the SDP club is simply concerned with this kind of report, this way of accessing work, where we simply didn't get what made FINA and created from payment turnover as a Financial Agency for the reasons that we adapted payment traffic to European practice. But the truth is, some ministers last year used FINA for some strange malfeasances. You know, we haven't forgotten that FINA should have bought its databases from some strange founders of the Island of Knowledge, which is also a failure in privatisation and business of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. An affair that was on the agenda last year and this year, and we know which ministers demanded it. These were essentially missed investments that were supposed to be financed by the state agency with this money, which would be with 4,000 people, it doesn't matter. That is why we, for the most part, hold the responsible ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Supervisory Committee, who has obviously not studied the basic documents on the establishment of this Agency. Therefore, by warning the document, we approach it too easily and do not be surprised when FINA is indeed one of the bigger problems of the Croatian government tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41147	Thank you. One correction, Ms. Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41148	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's really not true what Mr. Linic said that the 2002 Act on the Agency was passed to be a database. In that explanation that you were then giving it was that ZAP has a monopoly on payment services, that prices are high, and you've made it all right, you've given it a chance to the banks. Now that you've given the bank a chance, and I've been working at the bank when it started, the banks have taken over, and now there's a monopoly bank, FINA is in this case just... a payment service. So when you're passing the law, then you need to see the consequences of these laws, and now you're going to say that FINA was founded because we have a database. FINA has a database, but that database should not know what she has to do, and whoever needs to get the data from FINA.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41149	An individual debate Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41150	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, President of the Board, colleagues and colleagues. Very short. Since I'm coming from FINA, I just need to say a few sentences about this report. In fact, obviously from all the debates that have been conducted so far that these are extremely difficult times for FINA and I simply have to remind myself that despite the fact that it was always owned by the state, from that institution of special social interest when it was when it was SDK to a market-oriented company like FINA was never on the state manger, but it was always very generously filling the state register. Even when it was placed in one discriminatory position, compared to banks in terms of taxing its services with VAT. In fact, we remember that for a long time, the payment services that were being rolled into ZAP and the FINAs paid VAT for being released by the banks in terms of payment traffic. Since the end of 2007 and the post office thanked the FINAs for processing the documentation of the FINA postal offices since the beginning of 2008, they have practically performed only payment traffic for citizens while for the banks and their customers, FINA, respectively, is performing payment traffic exclusively in the role of out-sourcing partners, which means the real forest of the most diverse technology models of conduct, in order to satisfy all the requirements of the banks. As a result of the cancellation of the post office whose orders included a large part of the payment turnover of FINA, as we see, the State, or the Supervisory Board as a representative of the State, has not found a solution for FINA as the owner. FOR the second year in a row, FINA has recorded losses and, unfortunately, with a trend in high growth. Here I will remind you only in 2006 FINA had 23 million kuna net gains, in 2007, it had 23 million losses in order to increase that loss to as much as 34 million in 2008 and it was a big problem and it was a major threat to FINA's future because we all know very well that showing such great losses sooner or later leads to indifference and indifference sooner or later to collapse. The two basic resources that were FINA's greatest comparative advantages, which are professional people, are therefore 5,000 professional, qualified to do their job well, and now this number has been reduced to 4.5 thousand, and a very diverse network of organisational units. We know that FINA still has almost every major site of its own organisational unit. So because of this dramatic and drastic downsizing of business, now these two FINA's biggest resources are its biggest burden because we see from this report that 60% of the total costs are precisely the cost of wages and depreciation costs. But I want to believe that there are always solutions and that every once in a while brings some new chances. So, it is this fact that FINA has an extremely valuable asset of around 2 billion kuna, that one rational model of capitalisation of that property should be designed, and on the other hand, that other FINA's resource of its professional people, knowledge of them, knowing how FINA-in he would have to get his chance in the new Law on Payment Transport which we believe will allow payment traffic to be carried out by banks and payment institutions such as FINA. FINA is in this sense a great advantage and I want to believe that FINA will know and take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41151	Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41152	Well, as the moment of the bill's vote approaches, I'm gonna cut short, but for local patriotic reasons, I can't skip this debate. First because as on the railroad as well as in the FINA when the water reaches the throat then it is no longer in the human interest of another region, then it is called on the Zagorje to help and rescue and I want my countryman Mr. Mother Reguar to succeed in everything that stands before him, and it is not easy for him. In fact, the FINA shows some things, and even here I agree with my colleague, we are passing neo-liberal laws "in line with Europe". It has been passed laws and payment transactions have been left to banks, but at the same time we have not regulated how these banks will act in payment traffic. So it started that we had the fastest flow of money in FINA, and in the former "SDK" and then "ZAP" and "FINI", that the maltenes at 12 o'clock or at 6 o'clock could be recorded and the money was sitting from one economic operator to another, and that banks today solve their night liquidity by retaining the funds of their committees or other payment agents. These problems that are present, I remember some conversations and certain initiatives that came from "FINE" and 2000 and the fact that some did not respond to the way in which the "ZAP" was controlled at the time. Because forgive taxes, contributions, health care, pension via ZAP when personal incomes or wages were gone could not have happened not to pay pension because your salary could not have passed. The bank can go through anything without paying the state anything. Second thing, I'm going to say a banal example today. We're also talking to the audit. We have in the city of Zaboku about 250 legal entities that haven't had business days. They paid off the founding capital, registered the company, but she didn't come back to life. "FINA" has credible data about it, but they can't serve to write off a claim and then we're pulling a tax on a company that we don't have anything to write off from year to year. Because the "FINE" report isn't an official document, and our judiciary and the commercial judiciary have to wait for it, probably when we're dead, too, to get a memo saying that someone doesn't work, that they didn't come back to life. Which is why such a qualification structure as colleagues and colleagues said in "SDK", "ZAP", "FINA" all changed names. One good part of the people started at 20 today are 50 years old. "FINA" is no longer attractive employment. It was once thought that SDK, ZAP, would get a job there for a financial economic expert that was the main event. Today "FINA" has no perspective, no answer as to what will become of it and is not interesting to young educated people who have potential in the financial economy. And what I want to say in the end. I personally think that indeed "FINA" with its potential and hardware and software can be the basis for all that awaits us in the approximation of Europe and in the functioning of European regulations and rules. He's looking for a firm strategy and a real government strategy, and I'm not going to tell the Supervisory Board because for me, the chairman of the Supervisory Board is a representative of the government, so the government has to define what he wants and then we won't have such a situation that we're in a situation that on the one hand would support people who have accepted the burden of carrying this company, on the other hand we're unhappy because we don't have answers to what's going to be. So once again, I want to and I think that, as I believe in the public procurement sector, Mr. Reguar has successfully led the affairs to the satisfaction of everyone, that he will succeed in "FINI", but I want him to get support from a decided, clear and loud and even before this Assembly discussed what we want and where we need to take "FINA".
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41153	Thank you. One correction, Ms. Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41154	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's Mr. Hanzek. You said for local patriotic reasons, we didn't react to how the banks organised payment traffic. The banks organised payment traffic under the law, payment traffic control performed by the CNB, the market only regulates prices and again I speak when the law was passed in 2002 you direct payment traffic to banks and you gave the banks a monopoly position. If there wasn't a "fine" that price of payment would be higher. "FINA" is the one that is correct and therefore it has a part of that loss. Therefore, payment traffic in banks is subject to the law you passed in 2002.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41155	Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41156	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear President of the FINE Board, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We've heard a lot of careful thinking here. Well, of course, it's not convenient to read that one institution has a loss of 34 million kuna. Before that, a year ago, 22 million kuna. Then it becomes understandable to ask for a debate about it. But there's still something to point out. Although in the debates I heard here that while the loss piled up, the number of employees was also piling up. The number of employees did not accumulate, the number of employees was found and stemmed from the time when the former SDK played a major role in payment and the only role in payment. The SDK passed the transition to ZAP, then from ZAP to FIN. We even heard from the same side of different thoughts why it was happening. Well, I wouldn't use that divergence between us in thinking, but I guess the intensity was when the SDK was transformed into ZAP to allow banks to operate payment traffic, to create competition in the payment market, to get as low as possible the price of payment services because, according to those estimates, the prices of the service were monopolistic and enormously high. All I can say is that we got more paying institutions, that we stayed in trouble with a large number of employees, but we didn't get a lower price. It's about, although every day we hear that this competition of banks to compete which bank will have a lower price of payment traffic that reminds me about how every day we hear that the prices of phone impulses are cheaper and the bills are increasing. As well as payment services are becoming cheaper and the bills for payment traffic to the economy are increasing. And that competition has not won the result that competition on the market should win, which is a lower price of the service. And that's what worries the most and adds to the economy. But there's another problem that I'd be here when you speak there's no strategy, there's no perspective. Ma FINA has a safe perspective, only needs to find the right way for pre-defined objectives. For many years, he's been wandering around with goals. But FINA is also the victim of one wrong approach in the Croatian climate, creating years of environments where private capital will enjoy a mono-political position, and a state-owned company will go into the market and keep employees. And that's the biggest consequence of this. All the countries in the world if there is a monopoly, then that monopoly is enjoyed by a state institution or by a company that owns the state 100%. Unfortunately, even after 20 years of the Croatian state, there are still private companies that enjoy a monopolitical position making enormous profits above the average price, and we have a FINA which we have actually left quite in an unfortunate situation and which in these difficult times finds some solutions, but certainly that it can always be more rational and efficient. And I believe that Finna will succeed on that path. And as far as the technical report itself is concerned, the report is quite correct and I support it and I will vote in favour of it. Well, I also praised the SDK yesterday, but when it goes too far in those praises, so SDK was a great institution, but there were wrong moves there too. So let's remember that only one bank was founded through the night loan of the SDK in the 1990s and the capital of 50 million kuna borrowed what it should never have done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41157	Thank you. Replica. Mr. Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41158	I'm not a person who cries for the past, but the value of SDK was not payment traffic. The value of SDK was control and control. And by disappearing exactly that, we got into problems and privatization nature and I would say the collapse of society, the collapse of companies. Therefore, it was necessary to place the databases again in one place, which will fully monitor what is happening in the economy. Therefore, payment turnover was one value, but another value was the creation of the necessary mass of data in one place. Not that we have any partial data that is being misused today. And the reason for the mass of affairs and the problem is that when FINA was formed, it wasn't going to create this base. Because all the institutions in the state hierarchy were against it. From the competent ministers, the IRS, the HANFA, the Agency for the Protection of State... without speaking to telecommunications agencies, postal, energy, etc. It was supposed to be basic business, and then it was very valuable to FINA's business. Unfortunately, the state government didn't think that way. And there's something else you need to know. Pay traffic was a way to maintain the number of employees still. But you'll allow the Post Office Bank is not a market institution. The post office bank has the owner, the Croatian state and the Croatian government and it has taken away payment traffic. What further comment? Don't talk to me about market monopoly problems we have behaviour and Croatian governments. The post office bank has taken over payment traffic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41159	Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41160	Thank you very much. I agree with you when you say that payment traffic is only one segment of the FINA and that it has lost its control function and that there should be a great potential of the database. But I don't agree when you say she lost her job that the Post Office took away. FINA, or ZAP, lost its job when banks took over a huge part of the payment business. They were not even able to behave on their own, but they were using FINA's services, and they charged these services additionally to the FINA and to the economics and legal persons. So they were allowed before they were technically and humanely trained to do that job at all. And that was the beginning. The truth is that Platni procuring has reduced income, a lack of jobs has reduced income, and that remains the number of employees, and that is something that has additionally burdened. But it should also be pointed out that the current FINA database is very high but not used enough. And I say not enough that some institutions or legal entities don't even know what FINA has. She's got a huge database. She's the only one she needs to know how to use. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-23-0.u41161	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. And the Annual Business Report of the Financial Agency for 2008, the applicant of the Financial Agency. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: The Annual Business Report of the Financial Agency for 2008 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? I find that with 73 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 26 against a tabled conclusion.
