ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27841	Good morning, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished MPs and MPs. As chairman of the Management Board of the Pension Fund, I am obliged to submit a regular annual report on the operation of the pension fund, and I will briefly present the basic data on the operations of the pension fund in 2006 and 2007. The legal basis of the pension fund's operations is the Constitutional Court's decision of 12 May 1998, the Law implementing the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia's decision of 12 May 1998, the Law on the Pension Fund and the Statute of the Pension Fund, this is 2005. In accordance with the Pension Fund Asset Management Treaty of 22 November 2005, the HPB invests in the management of the pension fund. In November 2005, the members of the fund were sent envelopes containing notices of membership, the amount of compensation, statements of the way and the acquisition of the facilities for the pension fund and for those entitled to compensation, i.e. the notification... for those who have no right to compensation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thus, through a statement prescribed by law, the fund members then decided on the choice of the compensation model, choosing between 50% on payments of the sum of the compensation within two years in four wars, so on. Model A and payment of the total amount of compensation within 8 years with two years of a 6-war start, so on. Model B. At the same time as calculating the compensation according to the decision of the Constitutional Court HBP Investment... interest totalling 2.3 billion kuna in such a way as to share that amount with the amount of compensation to all fund members who had the right to compensation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The whole process since November 2005 defined the number of fund members who had the right to compensation, so-called the basic register of 434 313 members of that fund. The model A chose 72.4% of the members or 314 thousand 226 and the total compensation after the calculation and calculation of the 50% compensation amounted to 4.8 billion kuna and for the fund members selected by model B 120 000 and 87 of them received compensation in the amount of them calculated compensations of 4.2 billion kuna so that the basic initial amount of the fund was 9 billion and 19 million kuna. At the same time in 2007, the Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing the Constitutional Court Decision of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May 98 and the amount of compensation for users of the highest and family pensions was defined. These members of the fund, the users of the family's highest pensions after the calculation and definition, were entitled to compensation of 36,000 209 of which 63.3% chose model A, so half the amount of compensation in two years is 22 thousand 908 or 63% of those members of the fund with an amount of 505.4 million kuna, while at the same time model B chose 13 thousand and 301 members of the fund with a total amount of compensation of 884.8 million kuna. The total size of this fund for the users of the highest family pensions is 1.1 billion and 190 million kuna. During 2006 and 2007, a total of 5.8 billion kuna payments were made to the members of the basic fund register and the family top pension beneficiaries’ fund, paying all four A-wars for the users of the basic register of 4.8 billion kuna. The first payment war for, the basic register for model B members of the fund who received their first of the 6 wars of 702 million kuna. Two wars of model A were paid for the users of family and highest pensions of HRK 250.9 million, and not a single war, it only started in 2008 for the users of the B family's highest pensions. In view of the various objections, complaints and arrangements were constantly updated the list of fund members and at the end of 2007 there were 440 thousand 848 members in the basic pension register of the pension fund and 36 thousand 636 members in the family pension fund. The new members of the Fund who have been entitled to compensation or the amount of compensation obtained by the complaint to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute are further being provided, and the amount of the compensation is changed and the withdrawal of the claims of the members of the Fund against the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, the abolition of the right to compensation, or the legitimate objections to the change of the compensation model. That finding that the deceased member of the fund has no heirs to the first succession order. After the payment and all these transactions carried out during 2006/07. the years that included different, 700 thousand different postal mailing companies, 611 thousand different calls to a free call centre established by the HPB investment and 41 thousand and 74 solutions by the legacy that were resolved in the process. In addition to the money in its portfolio, the Fund also received shares and at the end of 2007 there remained funds for payment after all payments in 2006/07. A year for model B of basic register 3.5 billion kuna, so another five war payments for those members. 250 million kuna for members of the Family Fund, the highest pension per model A, which is only paid in 2008 and which is not subject to this report and in model B of the family's highest pensions, another 700.2 million kuna for payment of a total of 4 billion and 459 million kuna for payment over the next six years after 2007. This is a brief business report. I thank you and expect an argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27842	Thank you. Do the work-body reporters want to see it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27843	Thank you very much, Mr. President. State secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. When we talk about the Report on the Management of the Pension Fund, the first thing I'm going to say is that the Club of Representatives of the SDP will support this report and we think it is a good thing that an injustice from the 1990s was corrected when much of the Croatian pensioners were damaged. Their pensions have been unjustly reduced, illegally reduced, and ultimately there has been a debt of 11 billion kuna that the Croatian state has taken over and eventually paid or paid for, given the model that Croatian pensioners have taken over or accepted, they will pay for the coming years. What we think should be noted in this report is that it would be good if it were not for all the funds that have been paid to the Croatian pensioners, it would be good to have been shown through the budget, because in this case it would have been 5.6 billion kunas paid to the Pension Fund and which, as a government obligation, should in our opinion be paid and recorded in the budget, what it has objected and made notice and the State's audit and then, in some situations, would not have talked about deficit cuts or deficit cuts than would have been more pronounced for those funds. So they're kind of paid off off. Nowhere in the State budget has been recorded and in some ways the deficit of the Croatian State and the State budget has been artificially reduced. We think, of course, the funds were spent justly as I said on paying off the pensioners from the '90s, but they had to be recorded through that basic act of state spending money, which is the State budget. What we have to point out by discussing this report and what is almost impossible not to notice when we talk about pensioners, about the debt that has arisen towards the pensioners is that, year after year, pensioners live worse and worse. We're on our way, if we're going to do it exactly, in 2003 with an average pension of 44%. Today, according to the latest data, we're at 39 and some small percentages. So almost 5% today's average pension is less than the average salary of 2003. When we speak nominally, it is about 250 kunas per month to the average pensioners less than it would have been if that level of pension rate remained on average. When we speak nominally at the level of the year, it is about 3 billion kunas every year less than the state should have provided for pensioners to remain that share of the average pension in average salary. 3 billion kunas less every year. And now multiply it by 6 years, you'll get to nearly 18,19 billion kunas that unfortunately our pensioners didn't get again, and if there was a 44% pension left on average, we'd get and we'd have more in their pensions. Now we can talk about fair calculations and pension adjustments, but I think what we should have done to our pensioners is to ensure that 44% is the share of average pensions on average, which is unfortunately not. When we talk about the average pension, the amount that the average pensioner can spend today is 69 kuna. Unworthy of living worthy men and men who have worked for 30, 35, 40 years today simply cannot meet their basic needs. Today, across half of the pensioners, almost 600 thousand in Croatia receive a pension less than 2000 kuna, and I think that such things should be discussed with this pay phone and that we should take care of such things when we talk about the problem that we have solved in the '90s, the compensation of those pensioners from the '90s, but we must not ignore those who live hard today and those who are going to retire tomorrow. And that's why I think when we talk about this problem, we have to mention another problem, and that's the problem that's here symbolically appeared just when we're discussing this report, and it's about future pensioners, about the second pillar. Unresponsible statements by the Croatian Government, individual members of the Government, which raises questions as to whether the second pillar is justified at all, whether we should remain on this model at all, which says that all those who work today should save for their pensions. Should we leave that system and go back to that old system, I'd say socialist, where are we all going for everything? We have to leave, the whole world has left such a model of pension system financing, and now we in Croatia are questioning the second pillar. The second pillar has definitely no alternative. And what the government has failed to do is to coordinate the values and pensions of the second pillar for those who are now going to retire and who will go into retirement in the coming years. That's what we should have done right now to take care of future pensioners, not to make statements that it says whether a second pillar is necessary at all, whether such a way of paying off pensions can even hold water. We believe in the SDP that it can and must, because future pensions must be based on what Croatian citizens will save during their working life and afterwards live with dignity from their pensions that must be in such a model and 70% of the last average salary of Croatian workers. There is no alternative and such statements have led us to lose in one, two, three days to stock exchange values in Croatia, the Zagreb Stock Exchange up to 10%. And by comparison, 10% of what those pensioners saved and invested through the funds on that stock market. In two days, such statements about the second pillar broke out 300 million kunas for their future pensions. Every future pensioner lost 250 to 300 kuna in a few days because of what we've had an announcement as if the second pillar is even justified, whether it needs it etc. The second pillar has no alternative because the pension must be based not on the allocations, not only on budget cuts, but also on the savings of Croatian workers from which pensions will then be paid. What we're talking about here is what we have to mention about 450,000 people have entered this whole story, they've filed demands, they've got solutions, the model of choice A, B that they've chosen and what's important to mention and see where the pension fund is filled with, where these fees are paid. It would be good if they were paid out of the Croatian budget, as I said, by savings, by rationalisation, by the space of economic growth that created a certain additional portion of the income so that these pensioners could be compensated in one, two, or if they chose a B model for 8 years. But no, these are pensions, those damages were paid I say through the pension fund past the budget by paying off from the first two wars of Plive privatisation where we chose as we saw a strategic partner who today led to Pliva reselling and that we have 8 hundred fewer jobs with the first month of this year. And the question is where will Pliva end. So one good, noble compensation activity was done the wrong way. We chose the wrong strategic partner who today led Pliva down to a small company that was a national pride yesterday. And the second part via IPO T-Com where it is seen that 5 billion kunas were secured at the time when IPO T-Com was conducted where the Croatian government privatized via the IPO T-Com and from Croatian citizens that money was paid to damage the pensioners, but still in a way that sends the wrong message that without work can be easily lived, to buy today's stock for 260 kn tomorrow, and in the end you can see where all this has led us and where the stock market today is due to such a policy of the Croatian Government. And the question arises another fundamentally, whether that price of 260 kn was real then. How come all the companies on the Zagreb Stock Exchange fell 65, 70% and T-Com dropped only 15%. And the question arises whether the Croatian government has the right to dispose of property and undervalued at that time to give the most valuable Croatian company on the Zagreb Stock Exchange. So we had to say this to be seen, means one commendable action of compensation for Croatian pensioners due to the debt created in the 1990s has mixed up with something that certainly does not go on the pride of the Croatian government and that is: First, that one company that was the pride of Croatia Pliva is privatized in a way that is worthless today. Not worthless but definitely no longer as valuable a company as was those years ending today with 800 layoffs in the first month. And another thing to promote IPO T-Com as a way of life that has brought the stock market into this situation where it is. So here I am finally going to say that we will support this report and that we must say that we must also think about the future, that we must not give thoughtless statements about the second pillar. I'm sorry that some representatives of pensioners who should react to such things do not react more easily because it is their interest to represent that population, of course, as well as all of us. Because the second pillar definitely has no alternative, but we have to make it so that Croatian pensioners in 10, 15, 20 years have pensions as it was imagined by pension reform, which is 70% of the average last of their salaries. And of course, the Croatian government must find a model that, on one hand, when we pay back the debt we made in the '90s, we do not neglect the pensioners now. So 39% of the average salary pension is unsustainable. It must be a higher percentage and we must not systematically cut off the pensioners. They get cut year after year. That share of average pensions in the average salary falls. He's 39% today, 44%. As I said every month 250 kuna the average pensioner gets less than he gets when that relationship would remain the same in 2003. About three billion kunas on the annual level. We also need to take care of such things and talk about such things from this pay phone, and the government needs to find space in the budget so that Croatian pensioners can pay off in this way until the full pension reform is implemented, until all pensions are paid out of the second pillar or third pillar depending on whether someone paid their pensions, paid off during their working life even in the third pillar. So here, we'll support this report. But of course we had to mention all these things. Because caring for pensioners must be constant, not partial, so when we solve one problem, two, three suddenly jump out. We have to keep doing things to make Croatian pensioners live better than they do now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27844	Thank you. We have two corrections. The first is Mr. Representative, Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27845	Thank you very much. Well, it is said here that the government has questioned the second pillar of pension insurance, which is completely incorrect. The government has never questioned the second pillar in any statement, but it is known that the second pillar has a meaning for one length of investment in it and has suggested that those who normally will not invest in that second pension column will have the opportunity to return to the first pension column and get a pension out of it normally. So at no point did she raise the question at all that the second pension column is unnecessary or that it should be shut down and that it should, as the story says, take the money and save the budget. That's nonsense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27846	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27847	So I will try to correct the truth and the short memory and the false allegations. First of all, it's incorrect that the stock market fell because of the government's behaviour. The financial crisis that started in America has been overrun, everyone knows that, I guess everybody knows that, but obviously you're not in the SDP, so you blame the government. Secondly, it's incorrect that you've solved it, says we've solved the debt to the 1990s pensioners. You haven't solved anything. This was resolved by this Croatian government headed by HDZ, and you didn't want to solve it. You didn't want to solve it at all in your term. They denied the existence of debt at all. So you didn't want to admit there was a debt at all. And the third thing, when you talk about Pliva, then tell the Croatian public that you finally beat the debt to HZZ with Pliva shares. The state had 25% shares in your time and the Pliva control package. You beat up HZZ debt and gave it away, and that's how the state stayed at 7% of Pliva shares. So what are you talking about? And of course, without a public tender, it was done, of course, without a public competition under the table, and then you expect HDZ, from the HDZ Government, who had only 7% of the shares to do something that wasn't possible. Therefore, and it went through a public tender sold, as all known public competitions sold Pliva shares unlike you, unlike you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27848	Thank you. The representative shall be told by the person who speaks and has not received the approval of the chairperson. It is according to the Rules of Procedure and do not interfere with the work of the Parliament. Do not interfere with the normal work of the Parliament and lift tension needlessly. The gentleman got his word, and you didn't. Thank you very much. They will not warn, for there is no warning. I think you should behave without warning. Normally, according to the Rules of Procedure. You didn't get the word, so you're talking again. It's Mr Boris Kunst's turn on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27849	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State, fellow MPs. So the Retirement Fund Act arranged a way to compensate beneficiaries of pensions under the Law implementing the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia's decision of 12 May '98. the year with which the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia was fully implemented. It is the compensation of pensioners who left because of the partial harmonisation of pensions for the period from 1 September '93. until 31 December '98. A year. I think it is important to stress here that this very government, so the government of the Croatian Democratic Community, has entered into this and respected the Constitutional Court's decision and has set out to compensate the pensioners and is normally still dealing with this problem today. The right to compensation shall be granted by users of age, early age disability and family pensions established under the provisions of the Law on Fundamental Rights of Pension Disability Insurance and the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, and on the basis of the alignment of those pensions with the movement of the average net salaries of all employees in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Based on the laws and agreements on the management of the assets of the pension fund, the HPB invests d.o.o., a company for the management of the investment fund. HPB invested within the law of the scheduled deadlines organized and allowed this large technical and complex project to be implemented according to the established register, the fund members decided on the selection of the compensation model by choosing between the half payment of the sum of the compensation within two years to 4 wars, that is, the model a, or the payment of the total amount of compensation within 8 years of the two years starting in 6 works, or this is this famous model b. For the model and 72.36% of the fund members were decided. While the model b was being decided by 27.64% of the fund members. In accordance with the law and statements of the members of the HPB investment fund d.o.o. he calculated and shared interest rates to fund members of the total value of 2 billion and 300 million kuna. In accordance with the decision of the Management Board of the Fund, all the heirs of the deceased members of the Fund who did not provide the necessary regulatory solutions on succession, a statement on 30 April 2006, was assigned model b. Prior to those heirs to the fund members, it was possible to select a model after the delivery of the orderly documentation and in which half of the share of the Fund members is attributed to the Republic of Croatia as a member of the Fund. The share of the Republic of Croatia will be used in accordance with the decision of the Management Board on any justified and positively resolved complaints and complaints of the fund members who, for any reason, have been granted the right to compensation or the right to choose a particular compensation model in such a way as to transfer the shares of the Republic of Croatia as a member of the Fund to a particular member of the Fund. HPB invested in cooperation with the Management Board of the Pension Fund and the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, and with the assistance of the other institutions made payments of all the war of compensation after buying out the share of the model, one war of compensation after buying out the share of the model b, and two wars of compensation for the model and the users of the family and the highest pensions. The first war of compensation has been paid, I will remind you on 28 June 2006 for 81.43% of the fund members that the more updated files have been updated until the fourth payment of compensation by model and 95.80% of the fund members are covered. The total amount of disbursed fund members on 31 December 2007 was modelled for 20606 members and model b for 12983 members. The Croatian Pension Insurance Institute has continuously provided new members of the Fund who have obtained compensation rights or the amount of compensation on the basis of the complaint to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and the amount of compensation is changed. In addition, the amount of the compensation is changed as a result of the withdrawal of claims by the members of the Fund against the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the abolition of the right to compensation by the Mirovina Fund and the legitimate objections to the change of the compensation model and the determination that the deceased member of the Fund has no successors of the first order. All purchases of the share were made in accordance with the legal deadlines and all the members of the fund were at the same time able to dispose of their resources. The report normally provides an overview of the overall process of the establishment of the register of fund members, technical and organisational preparations, the complexity of the project and the necessary preconditions for insurance and payment after the purchase of the share of the fund members. The following payments are expected to be made and passed within the time limits provided for and with significantly less problems, given the fact that most of the data on the fund members is known and the experience related to the channel or distribution of payments. And that is why the Croatian Democratic Community club supports this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27850	Thank you. On behalf of the HSLS and HSU club, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27851	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. I am pleased to talk about this project, or this report on the pension fund's business, and I will try to talk about the wholeness of this project and what happened about the pensioner's compensation project. I will look less at just one piece of this current pension problem that has been touched today for this speaker but it is not the goal here to open the controversy about it, but the goal is to correctly say and discuss this report. I am proud to be a member of the Pension Fund Management Board and I can guarantee that it was done here, where it was done, but it was certainly done here, and every point and point was carefully weighd in the report and also in the business, and several times it happened that there were two, three sessions to make one decision only to comply with the legal regulations and according to the agency, so the HANFAs, in accordance with the requirements of HANFA, in order to comply with all the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia. This special gratitude we all owe together and those permanent members of the fund were representatives of the government having changed, Mr. Dolenec is the new president of the Pension Fund Management Fund but those old members who have really given themselves up in this work all along and what their heart was doing. And I think that's commendable. This project is extremely important and this is, in some ways, the finalisation of the compensation project and the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision of 12 May 1998 and the end of all events. Which means that what is certain is that, with the completion of the work of the Pension Fund, it should also complete the compensation project in 2013 but thus is foreseen because the project also has a long-term component. Surely no one here should be angry because here on page two in one table are given and you recognize all the activities of all the governments that participated in the compensation from 1998 through the 100 kuna project and plus 6% pension, through an increase in pensions in 2000 from 0.5 to 20%. So that's in this table said. It was said that the total belonged to about 54 billion kuna, that until the final reckoning and the compensation to this difference of 11.5 billion to round the kuna, that it was practically paid 36 and 10, means 46 billion, meaning that 3.3 billion kuna was overpaid. How's that overpaid? Since there was no individual accounting and the collective return method was not known when the individual stopped and therefore the compensation bill had to be as a final act in order for the compensation to be carried out. Of course, no one has returned a single kuna, nor has the state asked anyone for a single kuna. In fact, both those 100 kuna and 6% were incorporated into pensions, so the basic pension and since 2004 pension has become an integral part of the basic pension and all other harmonisations are going to this. Of course, 251 thousand people who did not receive compensation and expected were not able to be satisfied at that time but mathematics is inexorable, mathematics has shown that at that time 426 thousand are exercising the right to compensation and have entered the compensation project through the Pension Fund. You have to say why a fund like that, why an investment fund to repay a pensioner. Well, look, the explanation is very simple, even though we've been working on it for six months to find a model. Namely, what's this about? It is a classic compensation for damages as the Constitutional Court has ruled that the State has damaged its pensioners during the period 1993 to 1998 and that it is obliged to compensate them for or compensate them for damages within its economic capacity. Look, everyone who knows labour law knows that compensation is only possible if there's a valid court ruling. It's also being compensated by an out-of-court settlement. However, only a valid court ruling exempts one who has received tax compensation. All others are subject to tax, so that there was no investment fund, all the beneficiaries of the compensation should pay the tax. That's why the investment fund model was found, because the basis of the investment fund law is not taxable and I think it's correct and that we all agreed that this is how it works. The pensioners actually signed their statements on a kind of extrajudicial settlement on compensation, on the compensation model giving consent to the amount of compensation. Drugs, like this is still a special fund of the type of investment fund. It's a fund that can't close its register, it temporarily closes it at payoffs, but it can't close it because changes happen all the time. And because compensation also has the character of inheritance rights in the first inheritance order. Therefore, at the place of one deceased if there are more heirs coming more members of the fund and the members of the fund are not just pensioners but also their successors. I note that this became an inheritance right on August 5th 2004, as it could not be implemented directly until the law implementing the Constitutional Court's decision was passed. What's a special quality of this fund is that he's done a huge job of communicating with citizens. And the Pension Fund Management Board was really trying and making decisions and increasing the management costs of this pension fund precisely because of communication with citizens, and you see in the report that communication with citizens has repeatedly been repeated, information laden, bank numbers, bank numbers, addresses. And I'm saying it's a huge job. It seems to me that there are some 500 thousand calls to a free phone alone or more, and that speaks of a large engagement of HPB investment as a retirement fund management company. Whoever wants to understand and who has patience, if there is no patience, cannot enter all this complicated matter, but who understands and who has patience can see exactly how what happened in the pension fund, with that I must say that this 2008 report will surely be much shorter. Since payment according to model A is complete and there will now be around 140 thousand fund members, this job will now be simpler, and other channels of communication as well as fellow Kunst have been established through one three, four attempts, because in this summary you see precisely that the number of payments has increased from trying to try. So the first one paid 81.43% of the money in the second one paid 92.47% of the money, in the third 94.45% of the money and in the fourth one 95.80%. So the data bank updated and this quality of communication produced these results. We have another dilemma that I think is worth answering, because we have 13,000 people who haven't used the right of compensation. It's about some of those 13,000 some have received one, some two, some three wars, but that's very few. The largest number of them, so there are 7 thousand 931 members of the fund, never delivered his statement as to what kind of compensation he wants. I looked at those amounts and the damage calculations. You have damages of 0.37 lipa, i.e. 0.37 kuna, pardon, 37 lipa, or there were 5 kunas and 28 lipa or 27 kuna. I guess the largest number of those in this number is 7000 931 people, or a member of the fund. And here it is true that 5 thousand 144 fund members, the amount of the compensation war does not exceed 100 kuna, so it does not make sense that they went to register for below 100 kuna and opt for a payment of 4 wars or in 6 wars. It's important to know that it doesn't turn out that you know what the state is going to do with that money. So the money that's inside, and there's another way that some money becomes state money, and that's an example of someone dying, and there's no heir. It's so-called. Ossence pension. That money's in the fund. No one can take that money until the fund's work is complete. It becomes a part of the Republic of Croatia and is used for all those who will be sued by judicial means and claim compensation. It is used for those who are through the complaint to calculate compensation, so the procedure is still pending, which will become new members of the fund. So that money certainly won't get lost. And of course, the pension fund management fund after the end, so in 2013, the money that remains inside will have to decide on its purpose. Whether it will return to the budget or be used to build one or two retirement homes, this will be discussed when the time is right. Our pensioners, or our fund members, should be told that for the time being, we can criticise these sales however we want, but the fact is that today the Pliva shares would be much less valuable and much harder to fill this fund with money and it would be harder to pay back the compensation. For now, the fund is safe, there must be money to pay off the war in 2009, and the rest will have to be charged. So, this fund, as an investment fund, has no task of going to major risks and creating huge profits. It is primarily his task to compensate, or compensate, the pensioners. And lastly, I'd like to correct a few allegations here. First, the whole world, or European practice that interests us most, still has a pillar of generation solidarity in the foundations of pension systems and it is not seen when it will leave it yet. So that's what we have to take care of. Secondly, the representative of the Croatian side of pensioners, I personally did not glorify the second pillar and I am not also the one for the removal of the second pillar. I did for an expert and we suggested this publicly, I did for one expert expertise, that one expert working group give us good parameters on whether it is worth improving or should take some other steps. Not by heart, not by hasty, not by quick, not by quick, we don't have to rush here. We can safely say that those 130 grand that went into II voluntarily. In 2002, between 40 and 50 years of age, they probably won’t get an expected pension and we can consider possible volunteering. Everything else slowly, there's, there's time, there's no getting out, there's no hurry. And last I wanted to say, yes, we can say that in 2004, pension incomes were 44% but not pensions, that's a significant difference, in 2004, and in 2003, when the coalition government ceased to function, so to speak, pension incomes were also included compensation of 100 kuna and 6% and 0.5 to 20% increase. Therefore, that is, the fact that these were pension incomes, but I am not defending the current position, it is very difficult, but know that so far the borders and the current average of pensions have come solely on the basis of legal provisions, not by any means by any government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27852	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Gordan Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27853	Thank you very much. I would correct two incorrect allegations, perhaps not entirely incorrect, yet incorrect. First, in Europe, it was not said that everyone in Europe was only going to be paid out of the second pillar, but the fact is that the whole world was going to Europe, and Europe was going towards savings payments, not from this part, so you said it incorrectly. And secondly, the fact is that he was chosen by another strategic partner in the privatisation of Pliva, today the Pliva stock would be worth more than it is worth. Here's the same fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27854	Thank you. It's Mr. Ponzimir Mršić's turn. He's gone. Then Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. He's not here either. Then Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27855	Dear Mr. President, this really important topic is causing public attention because of the discussion of fellow Maras, from all statistics in Croatia, 600,000 pensioners live with a pension of less than 2000 kuna. The question we always ask is how pensioners can survive with a pension of less than 2,000 kuna. And then there is no wonder that, according to the latest data in Croatia, there are about 750 thousand people below the official statistical poverty line. So, 750 thousand people in Croatia, almost every fifth person in Croatia lives below the poverty line. And that's what worries and that's what's terrible and devastating and where we'd have to try to find solutions to fix it and solve it. However, when talking about the return of debt to pensioners, some facts or factors are either accidentally or deliberately forgotten. I will remind you of the Law implementing the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia's decision of 12 May 1998, under which pensioners exercise the right to compensation. Under the law, the decision followed in 2001, i.e. Reimbursement law for pensioners from various periods that were raised at the same time in 2001 from 5% to 20%. So I'm going to read you the fact that in 2000, the average pension amounted to 1251 kuna and 37.62% of the average salary. 37.62% share in average salary. With continued growth by 2003 and immediately, some like to forget that in 2001 they received 500 kuna more pension than they had, the average pension was 1700 kuna and 44.18% of the average salary. So, in less than three years, the share of pensions in average salary rose by 7%, by almost 7%, and that's what was good, that pensioners or those who were entitled to retire were then climbing. But unfortunately in recent years it has been shared, and these are facts, so it's statistics, it simply can't be intonated or interpreted in one way or another, we're talking exclusively in fact, the proportion of pensions in average salary is decreasing and it fell to below 39%. And that's what worries, it was almost 45%, it fell to below 39%. If we now include that in 2009 for the first time since 99, real wages in Croatia have been reduced. If the real salary in Croatia fell for the first time since 99, 2009, we come to the fact that the real salary of workers has also begun to fall and pensioners who have reduced their share of salaries, how they can live, or how they can survive with the salary, i.e. Retirement below 2000 kuna. And that's what, that's what worries. The second pillar, and I agree with my colleague Maras, has no alternative and is not exactly interpreted as seeking to rely exclusively on first-degree sources in Europe, does not pursue a model that finances savings pensions, various forms of savings and also strengthens the third pillar as one of the elements. On average, one American has two life insurance policies, i.e. two third-degree policies, means a voluntary pillar while in Croatia the average, so 80 people have a policy on 2,000 inhabitants. Which is far below the level we want to be at, far below the level that these people are going to make in the future and what pension they want to get and we want it to be somewhere at 75%, at least that's how we all publicly talk about average salaries. And that's what we have to strive for. In addition, it is also a fact that I sometimes hastily, sometimes, the question is whether state-owned, I would dare to make decisions in the sale of property, to cover debts from some emerging period, specifically I am talking about the initial offer of Croatian telecommunications made the situation in the Croatian Stock Exchange, in the Zagreb Stock Exchange at one point we have a huge amount of shares and a huge amount of money. And not only that, the citizens couldn't buy it, and we mentioned it when it was the HANFA Report, the citizens couldn't buy a package for that amount up to 36 or 38 thousand that was initial, but they took up loans neatly for it. What did they do with the other amount because of the propaganda in which life and profit over the stock seemed very easy? They also directed the rest of the amount to the stock market. So at that point, every single mature stock market speculator and one who works on the stock market began to make it clear that this amount of money, that amount of capital, will never reach the stock market again, and that the opportunity and time for that speculative balloon to blow. That's what happened. Unfortunately, with this kind of move, the speculative balloon of the Zagreb Stock Exchange has accelerated quite quickly. However, some decisions and the Croatian Financial Institutions Oversight Agency have begun to say, 'Let's say, moving some of the pensions from open funds to a public-run census. This was primarily done by pension funds, and in my view, and in the great debate of the broad part of the public, I accelerated this process and once you lose it to financial institutions, to the financial system, it's hard to get it back. Of course, we haven't been through badly because of the financial crisis, which has pushed the story in the same way, but something before the end of the year has already begun to show signs of weakness. And there is exactly the responsibility of responsible state policy, meaning that responsible fiscal policy, responsible behaviour, responsible economic policy ensures trust in the financial system. If the stock market falls by 10% in three days it's obvious that trust in the financial system doesn't exist. However, in this stock exchange, there are shares of future pensioners who will later need to make a contribution on the basis of their savings. This contribution cannot be achieved unless there is confidence in the Croatian financial system, unless there is no investment in it and the continued contribution does not grow. Not to mention, 60% of the pension fund investment structure is focused on government bonds. State bonds are guaranteed by the state and it is therefore extremely important for the state to ensure, through responsible fiscal management, the way, the collection and mechanisms of how to regularly service its obligations. And therefore, the statements that have been made in the past days about the possibilities of rerouting part of the second pillar funds to the very least have been inconclusive because they have fuelled people's confidence in the Croatian financial system. And without confidence in the system, the fact is that in the future, we can't expect a pension growth, we can't expect a salary growth, after all, we can't expect income growth, which is particularly important for Croatia, Croatian citizens, and in particular 600 thousand pensioners living and with pensions below 2000 kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27856	Thank you very much. We have several interventions at the hearing of MP Bernardic. First the corrections of an incorrect quote. A fellow representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27857	Dear Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect assumption that the first pillar is being left in Europe. No one said that the first pillar is leaving Europe, but that the first pillar remains the foundation of pension systems in Europe, so there is no valid alternative. The savings you were talking about age, she's known to be in Europe, I've known for 20 years what they are. In Italy unions also worked as they motivated their workers to save. We're not the first ones to invent a savings for old age. All this is known only if we want to analyse and apply such models. But the same value has both life shelves and severances. In Italy, no severance payment has ever been paid for the cancellation in a way that is paid in Croatia, but everyone has been saving for their severance. It's an important difference in systems, and we may one day come to that level.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27858	Thank you very much. The second amendment. Representative Kruno Markovinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27859	Well, I have to correct my colleague Bernardic who claimed that, in the period from 2000-2003, the proportion of pensions increased compared to wages due to an increase in pensions. Unfortunately, it has increased because wages have been significantly reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27860	And the third correction of the incorrect quote, representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27861	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A colleague, Bernardic, said in his debate, irresponsible policy-making sold out Croatian companies to pay back the debt to the pensioners. My colleague Bernardić, I do not think that this is an irresponsible policy because these companies were created by our pensioners, and it is true that you sold out 50 and more percent of the stakes in the strongest companies in Croatia, that is, INA, that is Pliva, lost ownership of these companies, and you did not give swear to the pensioners, and at that time you did not recognise the debt to the pensioners, and today you are so concerned about the pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27862	Thank you very much. We have one replica. The word has a representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27863	Thank you very much. My friend Bernardich, I'm going to rely on your debate. I believe that sometimes insubordination can be harmful that we witness every day, inaction with the recession, about preparing Croatia for a crisis year of great damage brings to Croatian workers. Twenty-five thousand people lost their jobs in the first month, but sometimes it's better not to do it than to do it wrong. And that's where I'd give you an example. He mentioned counterpart Matusic's decline in the stock exchange, the fact is that the 6.2. value of CROBEX was 1691, and 11.2. Prime Minister Sanader said in the paper "the second pillar is a failure". 17.2. after that statement, the CROBEX value was 1484, which is 12.27% lower. So sometimes with an irresponsible statement, you can do much more damage than do nothing. Sometimes it's better not to do anything. And it wouldn't be such a shame if, with such a move, Prime Minister Sanader hadn't made 300 million kunas in one statement to future pensioners. Every pensioner now saving for his pension, a pension of 5, 10, 15, 20 years with such a statement has lost about 3 hundreds of kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27864	Reply to the replica, MP Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27865	Dear colleague Maras, you've noticed well. And what we keep saying is that it's expensive to do more expensive is not to do it, but the most expensive thing is to do it wrong. That's right. And what we have repeated and repeated monetary policy cannot solve the problems of the country's economic and fiscal policy. A sound economic policy is based on sufficient revenues from the state budget so that it can stimulate the economy through fiscal policy healthy and responsible behaviour, stimulate pension growth, stimulate the share of pensions, grow the share of pensions in wages. And that's what we repeat all the time, and that's what we want to achieve is that the pension that now stands at 30% and below 39% of the average Croatian salary, which I repeat again in 2009, is real, it has experienced a real decline to make that share bigger. And it is not true that anyone was talking about Europe running away from the removal of the first pillar. When the representative of the Hrelja spoke you said that they were running away from the removal of the second pillar which is also not true, which is also not true. And for the sake of information, I must tell you that the average salary in the Republic of Croatia from 2000 to 2003 and I will respond to this and my colleagues, Markovanovic, has increased by 40% nominally. So that's not my data, I didn't make it up. If you don't believe me, take a look at the State Statistics Institute and you'll make sure you're sure enough that that's when the salary increased by 40%.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27866	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. It's Neda Klaric's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27867	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I will begin by saying that here is exactly the report that is before us on the business of the pension fund for 2006 and 2007 exactly the right example of the responsible fiscal behaviour of the Government of Croatia, as well as the testimony of the actual correct model of solidarity and reciprocity towards those who, according to that category of citizens who, following their responsible, honest and honorable work during the time in which they participated and left certain material values behind, are also bearing witness to us as a responsible Government of general solidarity and reciprocity when they enter into the third lifetime. For no time, however, we must not forget the efforts at national level by definitely the pension fund compared to the local level, so this is an excellent example of how in fact the project that started in 1998 with the end of 2013 will depriving the pensioners just in such a way as to find the best model of an investment fund in which there will be no pensioners damaged in a way that pays taxes which, of course, the project that was to be further handled as I would say b) the task in the main goal of damageing pensioners with their claims. In further secession, I would say the full report shows that the additional quality is actually the moment when this compensation became an inheritance law and the Management Board of the Pension Fund definitely and this opportunity deserves the praise and gratitude of all of us for the efforts he has made in the vast amount of work where every pensioner in the Republic of Croatia has been contacted. I would also need to raise awareness and sensitise all our units of local self-government, so cities and municipalities as well as the regional level, so the county that also in accordance with our financial opportunities we need and need in different ways, in different ways to enter the space how and how to improve the quality of life of our pensioners as well as the person of a third life. An example from the town of Sibenik, where together and in partnership with the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, it develops several models from the supply of heated wood to households, so pensioners as well as on islands that praise the project. Then, through other people's help and care for pensioners and our citizens who need neither hospital nor other institutional care in social care institutions, it is very good to come mainly at times when we are able to, therefore, allocate certain opportunities to local budgets and provide free transport. These are just some of the models of how and how to make life easier and ultimately testify to our concern, because respected colleagues and colleagues must not forget for one moment that by entering a wide family of the European Community and in our relationship, we need to respond equally with our behaviour towards those who have entrusted us with their honest and honest work as well. And what our people in Dalmatia would end up saying is “not in the cups of everything” and each of us can also see a way of saying thank you for everything that we have been in charge of and pensioners and others when we need our care and attention. Finally, once again, I thank the people who worked on this model, the board of directors as well as the people of the Pension Fund. I hope that our pensioners, as of 2013, will be very pleased that the 2008 pension fund report will be much shorter. Finally, I would only say that here, for the area of my County of Sibenik-Knin in the membership of the fund that was established in the fund register, there is 231 million kuna for a total of 11094 members and that in the register of the users of family and highest pensions for a total of 1163 persons, 33 million and 416 thousand kuna. It's definitely a big asset. I'll support the report, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27868	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is the replica of Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27869	I thank the esteemed vice president. I would just say to a respected colleague that sometimes there are not everything in the schools, as it is said in Dalmatia, but unfortunately today in Croatia, Dalmatia and Slavonia, nothing can be done without money. But I would refer to this concern units of local self-government, help the county. Sometimes it is difficult to understand that units of local self-government and regional self-government are also through social programs, not only in Sibenik, but also in Djakov, Osijek and Zagreb and in all cities. I say, it is unfortunate that, through the city budgets, pensioners who have done their working life in Croatia, who have even done their working life, however, are extremely few who receive small pensions, who went there to Germany and Western Europe to work. It is regrettable that they must be helped through the social programme for the purchase of heating, for the payment of parts of gas, electricity, water and so on because these pensions, regardless of these pension funds reports, especially these investment funds, if seen where Crobex is today, are also asked what will happen with these funds, especially the funds of this second pension column. But I say, it is unfortunate that today, with his pension, the Croatian pensioner cannot survive from 1st to 1st, i.e. from 15th to 15th, and soon, such fate is also for the majority of Croatian workers who do not receive salaries that enable the payment of all the directors, especially food for the family, that I am not talking about a standard that applies in Western Europe, as we strive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27870	Replica response, representative Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27871	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My friend, I'm sorry that this is the way you think and perceive things. What I can definitely say is that you have the wrong perception because it's not about charity. It's just that we want and we have to, we're bound to sensitize our general public and that it's not just a national task, but every single unit of local self-government, especially its leaders, in a responsible manner, and I'm going to say again, I'm going to refer to my unit's financial capabilities to pensioners and third-age persons. You colleagues don't know if you know, when the allowance for other people's assistance and care was the discretionary right of a public institution called the Social Care Centre, which, by observing certain social economic conditions in the family, could or could not grant that allowance for other people's assistance, of course, in cash. However, thanks to the thinking and intentions of this Government of the Republic of Croatia, we have brought this assistance to the status of rights when you have a person who has the need for compensation for other people's assistance and care in a reduced or full extent, then his right no longer depends on social economic status. Here, that's just one example. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27872	Replica, MP Kruno Markovinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27873	Well, here's a good thing a colleague is one topic, and that's helping local self-government pensioners. In fact, many pensioners have small pensions and many cities and municipalities, here they help in various ways. Here is the same resurrection for us, Christmases, for those who are most difficult to help with the payment of communals because the fact that because of the sudden construction of various networks of water and sewers needs to be paid more than was paid before and the pensioners are difficult. But it would also be good if one day we really found out what the average pension was, that because of the hard life of socialism, hundreds of thousands of pensioners went to work outside and they're taking pensions today. These pensions don't count anywhere, but the part of the pension in a few years they worked here counts, it goes on average, and the pensions I don't know, I won't be counting a thousand euros now, more or less, they don't go on average. Why do I know that? Because simply when they come for Christmas and Easter, let's say, in the city headship of St. Sunday, then we know that people have worked outside for years, but they bring us a steak of several hundred kunas and they get everything they really shouldn't get. So, one day when we really find out how much the real average of pensions, when everything is recorded, calculated, computer, I think that average will be significantly, significantly higher, which is here, which will be good for everyone because then a lot more money will remain for those who need it most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27874	Let's move on with the debate. It is MP Slavko Linic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27875	Madam Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. There is a report before us that we must say that it is quality and that behind this report there is a well done job and I think that recognition should be given first of all and HPB invest as a investment fund management company that has really done a good job in the short term. When we speak well done work, we say this because over 400,000 members with whom to communicate, coordinate the databases and in some way make cash payments, and we need to know that this is neither easy work, and let's be honest, which times when the administration does not do it so well, there are a lot of complaints. And if it were a pleasure with this work done maybe just what we have at the end of the lawsuits, I'd say symbolic and probably who think they have something more right than they really have, so they took those steps. I would say really any commendation for the well done work of HPB Investa and the institution that in some ways in this last part could correct that impression of injustice against the pensioners. I personally think it's our duty from the Parliament to give every good job and commend. I would also like to say very clearly that I appreciate that the government made a bold move when it decided to go to individual refund. That's a good move by the government and I'd say with this report we see those who got that commitment and they did a good job and it's undeniable. But it does not give anyone the right in this House to cheat on the citizens of Croatia and to give their lies irresponsiblely. How many times are we going to repeat that here we estimate that 54 billion was a debt to the pensioners. Probably if we were counting interest, it'd be close to 90 billion. We've established 54 billion somewhere in total. Well, I guess you can see he's coming back in this model, only 11 billion. You can also see on the pensioners' accounts that it has been returned since the 98th period and that most of it was returned from 2000 to 2003. They were just different models. The courage of this government was to go on individual return and that's what was worth commending. But all of you who think that citizens are stupid, that you can try to tell your lies that the world becomes, becomes and remains only with you then that's your problem because that's not how politics is run. It's not worth the attention. Therefore, debts of over 54 billion and this system is the return of 11 billion. Therefore, let us be happy to slowly bring the story of the pensioners to an end and that the work that has been going on since 98 years has been completed with different models but I would say ended well because the HPB has well spent the government's decisions. And perhaps what is professionally opposed to the Croatian government. We resent the Croatian government's non-transparency in the state budget. Paybacks were by selling assets. The sale of assets is registered in the budget as income and the payment of money in the fund as... Since it sells property to the Croatian state to cover expenditure, it is considered a state deficit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to avoid showing the government deficit and the transactions are not shown in the budget and that is intransparency. We cheat on ourselves institutions, spend more than we can, and that's called a deficit. This separation has not been shown in the state budget in the last few years. The audit asked very clearly that the sale of shares as Croatian state assets had to be in the budget and that the forwarding of this money to the fund had to be in the budget and then they would be... The government didn't do it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is an intransparentity in the composition of the budget and it is the irresponsible behaviour of the Croatian government. The question remains what tomorrow if we can't sell the property, we'll have to give up some of the money from the budget. If we give it out of the budget then it's going to be a deficit. Why? Because we've put the rest of the consumption bar too high and we won't be able to reduce some giving because it's going to be a problem. But if there's no property we're going to have to finish this job and it's going to be decommissioning from the budget and then we're going to see that we're entering the deficits. That's something we say the government didn't do well. I don't know what these hidden deficits need when, sooner or later, it's evident that we have difficulties and external duties, that we simply have problems with our internal duties and that in some way a larger and larger debt of the state exists, even for these obligations. Of course, one issue is labour transparency, the problem of the budget and another is the obligation of the Croatian state to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and I therefore consider it a commitment to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that we can clear all these other things both in the budget and in the analysis of the budget, and at this point, if we keep on the report all the praises.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27876	We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Representative Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27877	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President. I would correct Mr Linic's incorrect claim that the intransparency of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is seen through the state budget. Mr. Linic, where we will be more transparent than when a man receives a school with which the state's duty is to damage him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27878	An individual debate has been concluded. We have two more applications on behalf of the club at the end of five minutes. The first is ahead of the SDP club Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27879	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, State Secretary with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, in the end, let me say that the SDP club, as I said at the beginning, will support every quality work and therefore the quality work of the Pension Fund and this report deserves every commendation and by the way it was done quite clearly and by detailed reporting, so there is really a possibility that whoever wants to see how the business fund really sees everything. What is worth saying in the end after all these discussions that we have solved a problem that was, in all likelihood, unfair, unfair. The problem of the '90s when our pensioners, unfortunately, passed the law, ran out of part of their pensions and was created a huge debt to them in the amount of nearly 50 billion kuna. Our pensioners who have already and then had a hard time living in some way have been unjustly left without that money. And now with these payments, that problem hasn't been solved yet. By the time the model B comes to its end he will finally be solved. It is fair to say that three governments participated in this problem. And that from 2000 to 2003 the highest debt was paid to Croatian pensioners. more than half of this amount. And that's also fair to say, as it is fair to say that we support this pension fund report, and we welcome the courage to go into individual compensation made by the government in the last term. So I say by solving model B, one major injustice from the 1990s will finally be solved by a large number of Croatian citizens. But we must also say, and we must now point out, that by solving one problem regarding the pensioners, we also have two other problems to solve. I said current pensioners and future pensioners. And we don't have the right, said colleagues of Hrelja that in 2003 it was pension incomes. That's right. But she's retired. In 2004, 44% share in average salary. It's 39% today. 250 kuna per month to a Croatian pensioner. We have to solve this problem. And another problem for future pensioners. In this way, saving and the rate of separation for the second pillar will not be possible. We need to find a model for future pensioners so the pension reform isn't questionable. And she can say that we'll be satisfied if those two problems as solved by this one in the '90s are solved. So here's another support report, but also a clear warning that these two problems that are no less important must be solved as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27880	Thank you very much. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is MP Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27881	Thank you. Well, the esteemed representative Maras said that all governments took part in paying back the pensioners, and especially most of all that the government returned from 2000 to 2003, which was completely incorrect. That government played with 100 kuna plus 6% did not even recognise the existence of debt to the pensioners, and how it could have returned it. Most of the 17 billion returned the HDZ government and solved a major trauma of Croatian societies and pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27882	Second correction, MP Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27883	Well, my colleague Rebic has already said exactly corrected the incorrect allegations, but I will correct it once more. Well, obviously, you guys at your club need to make a deal. Did you raise your pensions from 2000 to 2003 or did you repay your debt? It's impossible for each other. First you say you've been paying back your debt, you haven't paid back your debt because you're saying you've increased your pensions. Do not deceive the Croatian public. And it's not true that pensioners get an incorrect quote, that they get 250 kuna less now. They don't get 250 kuna less. The peace has grown, my colleague. No one gets less than 250 kuna now. What are you talking about? You're talking about some percentages, saying you've been paying back your debt. You didn't return it because you didn't admit it. You said yourself you increased your pensions. You increased them based on what was '98. Made by the home government. You didn't want to do anything, you didn't want to pay back your debt, you didn't want to do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27884	Thank you very much. I hope the pensioners know best who took it from them and who gave it back to them. And that's the only truth. It's on behalf of the HSLS club, HSU's final 5 minutes representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27885	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. When there's this little debate, we're essentially having a lot of time, but we're having a little discussion about the report. This means that I can dare say that the report is fine and that we can freely raise our hand without any doubt for this report and again express my pride that I am part of this team and that I am in some way a co-creator of some of the solutions that have been implemented through the compensation project, through the Pension Fund. And that I was kind of looking out for this to be paid in time and the way we agreed. Otherwise, I'd recommend to everyone not to throw this away. Because yet the receipts that will come to certain counties are a contribution to the social security of our pensioners or their successors in these counties, cities and municipalities. And it's important to point out, for example. that the Primorje-Gorski County should receive a billion 160 million kuna, that Istria should receive 700 million kuna, that Split-Dalmatia should receive a billion 141 million kuna in this compensation. Zagreb and Zagreb County 3.4 billion kuna. These are significant funds that really mean certain social security for a part of the citizens who are members of the Pension Fund. I also ask you to compare this data to the amount of compensation in which part of Croatia is given with the data in average pensions in cities and municipalities, so you will see that the part that has been industrially developed and which has continued this trend and today has good pensions. I mean, both yesterday and today, the contribution from work should be the criterion of retirement. So just so you know, today the first city in Croatia is no longer Zagreb at the level of pension, it has become Rijeka. I'm not raising because it's my constituency, it's clear indicators. And the best municipality that's close to 3,000 average pensions is the Kostren municipality. The second city is Zagreb, so it is Split, so Pula is so it goes in order. This problem hasn't been solved yet. This problem has a continuity of resolution until 2013 and it is not excluded that after 2009 those 750 million kunas that will have to pay compensation will be paid out of the budget. We'll see about that. So far, I've said for sure that in 2009, the compensation from the money that they are today, who are in the fund, will be paid off, I think very little is missing for the payment of a full war, full of compensation wars. And this is definitely, no one here should be afraid of finalization because this is an obligation that can't be escaped from. There are documents that are signed as to how much a country is obliged and there is a model through which a person must individually be compensated. Of course, let us not compete, of course, that the coalition government paid the most because it was because it was a collective settlement of compensation. But it should also be said that as much money has been paid by the government, just slowly, let's listen, don't interrupt me please. The same amount that the last government paid for it, so it didn't pay a single kuna, because the calculation of the compensation did not stop paying for any institute that paid for the coalition government but was transferred into retirement. So Sanader's government continued to pay all the instruments if you wanted to hear it, plus compensation. And these are facts that no one can escape from. But we don't have anything to brag about, we're bound by the Constitutional Court's decision and there's no, there's no place for me to compete, but if we want to compete, we can, but the hard work of this debate and beyond the subject gives me the right to say that here would be a very good parliamentary debate on the state of the pension system, so both the old pensioners and the new ones who have fixed something and future pensioners, so we can agree on a strong, strong parliamentary debate because I see that we have to cross-reference, or conflict attitudes because there are many of us who think that we should fix it all in what way, it's worth agreeing. Of course, the Club of the Croatian-Social Liberal Party and the Croatian Party of Retired Support it with a warm support and I recommend it to you and, as one of the co-creators of this project, I thank you for your attention and quality discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27886	One rectification of an incorrect allegation. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27887	Thank you, Vice President. I also thank Mr. Hrelja, who finally told who started paying back the pensioners, which is the Government from 2000 to 2003, which is what the Fund's report says, but I'm more interested in why we came to pay back the pensioners. Well, it's those governments from the '90s to the 2000s. [[Agreement: Correction.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27888	Correction, colleagues! Abuse of Rules of Procedure! Let's move on, towards the end, we have, silence please, peace. On behalf of the HDZ Club for five minutes, MP Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27889	Dear Vice President, fellow MPs, so I think it's a good thing that the SDP and we agreed in one that a great injustice has finally been solved for the pensioners and the other that we will both support this report. Surely, it would be fair to say that, nevertheless, the fact that we are solving this great injustice against the pensioners has been done by this Government of the Croatian Democratic Community, and this problem did not want to face that SDP government in that coalition when it could do the same to the '98 Constitutional Court Decision. A year. But there's something else I'd like to draw your attention to, because there's a lot of untruth here. The ratio of pensions in the average salary in the Republic of Croatia, here I now have on the portal an open site so that you can see that you do not think that I am. Today, actually the data from November 2008, the average pension was 2130.77 kuna. So you don't need a big brain just a little bit of math knowledge to calculate which share of the average salary is 5203 kuna at the time. So it's very simple that you don't have to bother yourself that's 40.95% share. It's very simple, there's no big brain, put it on paper, calculate and it's written on the portal, look at the portal page. And in 2003, your average pension amounted to 1674 kunas with an average salary of about 3 thousand 760, 770 kuna. Try to calculate what the ratio of that pension on average is, too, should not be a great mathematician for that. Then I'll remind you that 18. 12. In 2002, the Pension Insurance Act was amended and the amount was then reduced by 4.8% to those leaving early retirement. I'll remind you that by 2000, it was taken to calculate pensions on average 10 of the most favourable years, that was where you took 10 of the most favourable salaries when you retired. Normally, after 2000, the range increased by three years, which I believe you'll agree with me that it must be more unfavourable than 10 of the most favourable years. Then the method of calculating guaranteed pensions was abolished, until 2000 pensions were guaranteed, meaning the lowest pension under which the pensioner was not allowed to receive, it was abolished. Otherwise, the lowest pension with 30 years of internship in 2003 is 1249 kuna. So it means 1156 kuna for the farmers. That's your data, so it didn't fall from the sky, but it's the statistics of your time so don't deceive the public because that's how I believe that no one trusts you anymore, because these are really delusions. And go to the portal, here's where I'm still holding the open page, and I didn't want to change it so you could check that information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27890	Thank you very much. There's a few corrections. The first is the representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27891	I'm correcting an incorrect assumption because my colleague Kunst said that we both agreed here with HDZ and SDP that the problem was solved, or that this was the end. First, you disagreed and the second problem was not solved but we are all convinced that in this way it will be resolved in 2013 when everything is worth it. Unless, although there are three other categories that are not covered by compensation but it is not the subject of today's debate, it is the subject of the Law on the Implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision and I would not be burdening us here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27892	Second correction, MP Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27893	My colleague Kunst has made several incorrect allegations, I will correct two. The first incorrect quote was that of the previous Government in 2000/2003, so she was not aware of the problem at all, i.e. nothing was done on that trail. On the contrary, that is why it was created, under the Constitutional Court Decision Act 2001, which means the exact opposite of which, at the beginning of the pension, increased by 500 kuna. And another false allegation, obviously you don't have the same information. The share means according to official statistics is below 40%, you said it was 41. And you said he was smaller in 2003, and he wasn't smaller than he was. I read it to you, it was exactly 44.18%. So this is already the third incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27894	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27895	Well, Article 210 of my colleague, I didn't say at all that the Government in 2000-2003 wasn't aware. You couldn't hear that from me at all, so that's something incorrect. I was saying something else. You should have listened very carefully. And these percentages you've listed now, here I'm still holding them, please come, portal open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27896	I can intervene now, as I intervened with Vinkovic earlier. Article 210 is not the basis and you have misused the breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... Correction of an incorrect quote, Agent Gordan Maras. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27897	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'll correct three incorrect allegations. First of all, fellow Kunst, you have the wrong information. The average salary in Croatia is 5400 and 39%... Two, ten of the most favourable years you've said. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It wasn't the Government that brought it in in 2000, it came in 1999. HDZ's government. However, you haven't been to HDZ far from politics, so you probably don't have that information. And as for the one who returned most, so did his colleague, Hrelja, who wrote to you in the report. Most of the pensioners' debt through 6% harmonisation, 10 and 100 kuna of the bonus was paid back by the coalition government in 2000-2003, more than half the debt. So take a look at your data, analyze it, do not deceive the Croatian public from this pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27898	Correction of an incorrect allegation. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27899	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'll correct two incorrect allegations. Mr. Kunst's first quote, the coalition government did not want to solve the pension debt problem. She solved it, only the model that had the coalition government of Ivica Racan was different from the model that this government had. And another false allegation, you have stated: stop misleading the public, no one trusts you anyway. Mr. Kunst, the SDP does not deceive the public, the SDP tells the truth as hard as it used to be, and 800,000 Croatian citizens are proof that very many people in Croatia trust the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27900	The final correction of the incorrect quote. Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27901	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So, counterpart Kunst said that SDP was not aware of the problem, that he did not want to face the fact of the debt-related pensioners, and then he eventually spiced it up with words that SDP was cheating on the public. My colleague Kunst, it's not the SDP who's cheating on the public. The public deceives HDZ, whenever it comes to workers, either today when it comes to pensioners, because you keep trying to convince the pensioners that they live much better today than yesterday, and you're not saying that it's the HDZ who stole the most of those pensioners. Remember when you were a unionist, you said something different than you say today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27902	Thank you very much. We've reached the end of the registered representatives and representatives of the clubs. The promoter no longer wants to take the floor today. They seem pleased with the support of the report they received. And I would personally like to see one conclusion drawn from this debate on the one hand, which is that it is better to prevent or disobey the law because however this injustice was subsequently solved, it is generally the most expensive cost of taxpayers. I'm closing the debate on the pension fund's business report.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27903	16. Report on the operation of the Pension Fund for 2006 and 2007, Carrier: Central State Office for Development Strategy and Coordination of European Union Funds The debate is concluded. I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Report on the Management of the Pension Fund for 2006 and 2007. A year.". Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal for a report was accepted by the majority with 116 votes in favour and 1 abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27904	We are going to the next item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on administrative fees in the field of intellectual property rights, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 271 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by committees: the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Here you go. Miljenko Pavlakovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27905	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here is a short reference to the amendments and additions to the Law on administrative fees in the field of intellectual property rights. It is these amendments that are necessary that we propose for the possibility of applying new institutes foreseen for amendments to the Mark Act, as well as amendments to the Industrial Design Act relating to compliance with the practice and regulations of the European Union. In essence, in these amendments and additions, the first part consists of certain adjustments which have been seen in the course of the application of the current law, which are corrected by this amendment and supplementation. And what is most important, the second group of amendments, is the possibility of introducing new tariff numbers to introduce administrative fees for new institutions introduced by proposed amendments to the law, which I have said before, on the stamp and on industrial design. In particular, it is exclusively a matter of compliance with European Union rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27906	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No one seems to need it. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. We're starting debates on behalf of the representatives' clubs. The first is Damir Sesvečan, representative on behalf of the HDZ club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27907	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Secretary of State. Well, here is the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes in the field of intellectual property rights, whose adoption actually stems from the consequences of and a series of laws in the field of intellectual property which we will discuss and adopt at this session of the Parliament, which are primarily the Law on trade marks, the Act on Industrial Design, the Law on patents and the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semi-Hungarian Products. And immediately at the beginning of the debate, I will say that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the adoption of this law. The Law on administrative fees in the field of intellectual property rights as laid down in Article 1 shall regulate the payment of administrative fees for operations in procedures for the recognition and maintenance of industrial property rights in accordance with the Law on patents, stamps, industrial design, geographical indications and designations of origin of products and services, and the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semi-Horizonal Products. It also regulates the payment of administrative fees for actions in proceedings, the registration of representatives in the field of industrial property rights and the granting of authorisations for the exercise of activity, the exercise of copyright and related rights under the Copyright Act. It also regulates fees for special costs for providing information services to the State Intellectual Property Office. These fees shall be paid in the amount of a tariff of administrative fees which is an integral part of this law. Issues of exemption from payment, refund and limitation obligations, the right to return, and the belonging of revenue from these charges are also regulated. It should be said that in the process of harmonising our legislation with European Union legislation, the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to ensuring the level of protection of intellectual property that exists in the countries of the European Union as set out in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. So according to the negotiating position of the Republic of Croatia for Chapter 7. – The right of intellectual property of the Croatian Parliament in July 2007 passed a series of laws that introduced new legal institutes and instruments to regulate intellectual property rights governing the way of acquisition, and to protect against the unauthorised use of intellectual property. The conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 16 October 2008 adopted the State Intellectual Property Institute Report on the fulfilment of the obligations set out in Chapter 7 which were provisionally closed at the 7th International Intergovernmental Conference with the Republic of Croatia in December 2008. Given that, during the negotiations with the European Commission, the need for further harmonisation of certain laws in the field of intellectual property rights has also been observed by amendments and additions to these laws, which I have initially counted on to be discussed. The final differences will be removed and removed, and this area is fully aligned with the acquis of the European Union. For these and other reasons, it is necessary to access the amendments and additions to this Law on administrative fees in the field of intellectual property rights. Since the amendments and additions of the Marking and Industrial Design Act provide for the introduction of a new institute, this law introduces a payment of administrative fees by the Institute. Moreover, since the amendments and additions to this 2004 Law are already adopted, the State Intellectual Property Institute is no longer obliged to notify the Party of the right to return to duty, Article 11 should be deleted and the provisions of the Law on Administrative Taxes as a general law will apply in future to the limitation of that right. The last novel of this May 2008 law also provides for specific cases of payment of an administrative fee when applying without the possibility of calling the Institute for such payment, and it is missed to settle other cases where this would continue to be possible. Therefore, by amending and supplementing Article 6 of this Act, a general provision on the obligation to pay an administrative fee is introduced. And finally, I will repeat, therefore, that for reasons of harmonisation of the law in the field of intellectual property rights with the regulations of the European Union as well as enabling the intellectual property office to carry out administrative procedures provided for new institutes in this area, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will therefore support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27908	Thank you very much. It is on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, MP Zdenko Franic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27909	Honored Madam Vice President, the Honorable Representatives of the State Institute, honored to the Director with an associate from the State Institute for Intellectual Property, Honored colleagues and colleagues. We therefore have a set of laws relating to a set of laws in the area of industrial property rights and a law relating to quality infrastructure. So we first began to resolve the issue of fees before we solved the laws themselves. Some logic would require that we discuss the laws first, and then settle the fees that will come from them. However, it is also important to do this because I do not doubt that after we discuss these laws that follow and adopt them, and after we adopt them logically, we also need to change this provision on fees in procedures conducted before the State Institute for Intellectual Property, because the institution also has to live on something. I regret to say that most of the revenue until a few years ago was obtained by the Institute from the fact that the Republic of Croatia had one pharmaceutical giant, which unfortunately because of the wrong business policy we no longer have. They switched to generic drugs. A development component has been destroyed and, consequently, there is no longer a situation in Croatia to come to such an extent by foreign companies to protect their products. However, it is very commendable that this Regulation also provides for application applicants who are also inventors to be paid a fee reduced by 50% to stimulate invention and to stimulate patenting of these inventions. However, the fees themselves are not particularly... The size of 50 to 400 kuna as regards collective, copyright, but the problem is then the very process of proving patent rights and other rights that cost a little more. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In any case, this law should be supported because the State Intellectual Property Institute as a premise of the accelerated transfer of knowledge from the academic and scientific community to the economy must live, live and breathe, hence, the SDP will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27910	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, Representative Željko Vincelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27911	Dear Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The existing Law on administrative fees in the field of intellectual property rights provides for payment of administrative fees in the procedures for the recognition and maintenance of intellectual property rights under the relevant laws, i.e. The Law on patents, the Law on trade marks, the Act on Industrial Design, the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semi-Horizonal Products, the Law on Geographical Origin and the designations of origin of products and services, the Law on copyright and related rights and the Law on representation in the field of industrial property rights. All of these laws, except for the last one adopted in 2005, were passed in 2003, and the amendments followed them in 2005 and 2007. In accordance with the introduction of new institutes in the procedures introduced by the amendments to the Industrial Design Act and the Mark Act which are now in the procedure of adoption in the Assembly and which we are going to discuss today and probably tomorrow and adopt should be amended and amended and the Law on Administrative Taxes. These changes introduce two new fees per 100 kuna and less technical corrections of the law. The Croatian People's Party Club will support this law because it is a logical technical order of a set of laws in the field of intellectual property, which will follow and also have our support because it is the laws that bring our legislation in the field of first intellectual property in line with the European Regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27912	We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, representative Zdenko Franić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27913	... logical. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] Yeah, it's really logical to bring it into the context of these laws that we're about to pass, but it's a little illogical that the tariff price list is an integral part of the law itself. Here, we have witnessed this, any crisis or recession, we have not yet agreed on what is actually under way, but the fact that here, and the kuna is depreciating towards the euro and the question is how smart it is to put as an integral part of the law that then every moment it may have to come here to the Parliament for us to debate that we approve the prices which are not really, the prices aren't particularly high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27914	We've exhausted all the applications on behalf of the clubs. No one signed up for an individual hearing. The applicant’s representative stated that he no longer wishes to take the floor, so I am concluding the debate under the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes in the field of intellectual property rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27915	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes in the fields of intellectual property rights, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E., number 271. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes in IPR areas. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This Final Proposal of the Law was adopted by the majority of votes. 107 votes for and 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27916	I am going to the third item for today's scheduled agenda - Proposal for a decision on the appointment of part of the members of the Council of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 131. Law on electronic communications. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, and the report was received at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Mr Drazen Breglec, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27917	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honors, and Madam Parliamentary Representatives. The proposal for this decision, which is based on the Law on Electronic Communications, will make the Croatian Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications complete again with the current 4 members, which is also minimum for its action, and by adding this decision to the appointment of three members, it will, of course, be able to do better, as fully and in accordance with the law. By virtue of the Law on Electronic Communications adopted in the middle of last year, the President, Vice-President and members of the Council of the Croatian Post and Telecommunications Agency shall appoint and resolve the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which it has established on the basis of a published public call. The President, the Vice-President and members of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency shall be appointed for a period of 5 years and may be re-appointed. In accordance with the above, the Government, on the basis of the implementing procedure published in a public call for a meeting on 12 December, established a proposal for a decision to appoint part of the members of the Council of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency and proposed their appointment to the Croatian Assembly. Thus, it is proposed to appoint Mr. Tonko Obolen, Mr. Nikola Popovic and Mr. Bozidar Ister as members of the Council of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency. This will also satisfy the condition set out in Article 8. The Law on Electronic Communications which states that at least one member must have experience, i.e. must have education in the field of electronic communications, in the field of postal services, in the area of law, in the area of the economy, so at least one of those 7 and the second criterion will also be defined in Article 8 of the Law, which is that at least 5 members must have at least 5 years of experience in electronic communications and 2 members of at least 5 years of experience in the field of postal activities. Thank you. All questions are at our disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27918	Thank you very much. There are no submissions for discussion under this agenda item. That's why I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27919	Proposal for a decision appointing part of the members of the Council of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency, Proposer: The Government of the Republic of Croatia The debate is concluded. I give the vote: "A proposal for a decision on the appointment of part of the members of the Council of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency." Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The decision was made by a majority of 114 votes in favour and 2 abstentions in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27920	Next item on the agenda. - Proposals for a decision on the resolution of the present and the appointment of a new member of the Competition Protection Council is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 31. The law on the protection of competition. You received the proposal by mail. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. Mr Miljenko Pavlakovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27921	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. A brief explanation. At its meeting on 12 December 2008, the government also proposed on the proposal for a resolution at its own request by Mr Nikola Popovic on the basis of Article 31(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law on the protection of competition for the Croatian Parliament to accept the appointment of Ms Vesna Patrilj as a member of the Competition Protection Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27922	Thank you very much. There are no hearings reported under this agenda point either. That's why I'm closing the debate. And I agree that we will vote on this proposal once the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27923	Proposals for decisions on the resolution of the present and the appointment of a new member of the Competition Protection Council were submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on a proposal for a decision to resolve the current member of the Competition Protection Council. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The decision was made by a majority of 84 votes in favour, 13 abstentions and 6 against. And I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint a new member of the Competition Protection Council. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most votes with 87 votes are for, 14 abstentions and 6 against the adopted decision in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27924	It's the fifth item of today's agenda. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Industrial Design Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 263 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. The amendment can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. Once again, Mr. Pavlovic's secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27925	Thank you very much. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. You have before you amendments and additions to the Industrial Design Act. What is there to note? That, in accordance with the negotiating position of the Republic of Croatia in Chapter 7 – the right to intellectual property. We're in line with all the directives on that. Please note that Chapter 7 was also closed in 12 months 2008 at a meeting of the Intergovernmental Conference on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union at ministerial level, and that is where we have taken firm commitments that the Republic of Croatia will amend the Industrial Design Act in the way that it is here before you and proposed. We can group the changes in four different directions. The first amendments are currently related to the definition of the product. Industrial design in accordance with the practice of the European Union countries is possible to protect the so-called "get up" product. This is actually all about product equipment and even space. At the time of writing the Law on Industrial Design, most often as "get up" protected the equipment of books, so due to the lack of another adequate translation into the legal definition, the book equipment entered the place of the "get hope". However, "get up" is a much wider concept than the book's own equipment because it represents the equipment of any product. So we suggest erasing the concept of "book" so... Part of the product definition covers only equipment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, the possibility of a continuation of the procedure is foreseen. It's important to emphasize. Following the model of the provisions of the Patents Act and the Mark Act, the possibility of continuing the procedure despite the missing of the deadline and without the existence of a specific reasonable reason for which the failure of the deadline would arise should the request for continuation of the business be submitted within two months of the day of failure. By introducing this possibility... It's about gaining private rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's where we can extend the deadline for these two months if you miss out on the very part of the procedure. The third amendments relate to the provisions of the so-called ‘Third Amendments’. the design of the community. This law was further amended under the directives and suggestions of the European Commission, which would cover the amendments cited by the Community's application as earlier rights and the abolition of the possibility of banning the use of community design which would extend its effect to the territory of the Republic of Croatia at the time of accession for the existence of any of the absolute reasons in the Republic of Croatia on which the design has not been examined. In fact, this last one was not possible in the mechanism to expand the impact of community design, nor in relation to other countries which have so far joined the European Union. The fourth amendment concerns the forecasting of a specific deadline for showing the refusal of applications and the extension of the effects of international registration of industrial design. In accordance with international agreements establishing the international registration system of industrial design, an application for extension of the effects of international registration has been rejected, industrial design is sent to some countries to the international office which forward these notifications to applicants of international registration. The applicant of an application within 60 days of the date of receipt of the written notice of the State intellectual property office may be made manifest to such refusal. It would be impossible to determine from when the deadline begins if the provision was applied as so far and to international registrations up to the above. Therefore, this amendment is requested and it is proposed that, as a result, the extended period in which parties provide an indication is four months, starting from the date of the notification of refusal of protection, irrespective of when it and the holder received it. Here, these changes would achieve full compliance with the European acquis in the field of European design. Please support these additions and amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27926	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of HDZ advocates' club, MP Zvonimir Puljic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. On behalf of SDP representative Zdenko Franić's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27927	Honored Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, honored to the principal, colleagues and fellow MPs. How do good ideas turn into a good marketing product? The answer may well lie in good design. In doing so, design should be considered as a process that affects all stages of product development or services from the idea to the final market placement, and industrial design is applied art with the aim of combining advanced aesthetics and functionality of the product of wide use with the aim of better marketing and better sales. Therefore, more complex research is also necessary for good industrial design, which includes both the social and economic and technological context. Industrial design is another area of intellectual activity, certainly worth protecting. Industrial design therefore protects the appearance of a product. But the fact is that many researches have shown that the profitability of a product can be achieved either by improving technological characteristics or design, with the ratio between investments in technical improvements and design being approximately one in ten. So it's experiencedly proven that the design sells the product. In the era of mass industrial production pure utilitarianism and product quality are simply not enough, but also requires aesthetic quality. Such quality is a product of intellectual creation as well as other forms of intellectual property, and they also have adequate protection accordingly. However, industrial design also involves taking into account the ergonomics, i.e. the science of work as a modern scientific discipline tasked with exploring the human organism and behaviour as well as the functionality of the product itself. So we see that design is not only a simple art category, but a multidisciplinary category that connects many areas of science. In order to ensure that the object follows in more form a purpose, we need designers. Everyone will, for example, sit in some chair, which, in its form, lures us to sit in it or some lunch that lures us to receive it and open it. However, in this whole context, let us mention a few things. It should be noted that industrial design cannot protect such a product that is opposed to public interest and moral principles. This law also refers to an amendment to the definition of products, to provide for a specific deadline for showing the refusal to extend the effects of international registration of industrial design, and to align with the provisions of the IPR Law. Interestingly, the State Secretary himself mentioned how some categories are introduced into the law. "get up" products that involve the entire equipment of products or whole interiors, and we don't actually have Croatian words for it. And while we are arguing in spelling, I will not or won't, such an important seemingly trivial thing, in fact, somehow pass on to us undetected, and Croatian experts from certain areas that should actively develop Croatian, even in those areas that are of vital interest to them. About the design we also remind ourselves of the fact that Croatian designers have an exceptional tradition, that Croatian design from the design of the subject of general use to the equipment in architecture has a brilliant history. But where are we today? The draft strategy for the development of Croatian design has not yet seen the light of day in its own time. Well, to praise this initiative is to change, complement and advance the existing Industrial Design Act. However, let us ask ourselves, where is our industry today? What are we protecting? Is it home designers or those who are just about to come to the Republic of Croatia? And let us remember that because of the number of international awards won, recognitions, Croatian designers themselves have become one of the most profitable and secure export Croatian products. What should we do today in these remains of the industry that we still have in Croatia very much appreciated. So I would end up with the words of the Finnish industrial mogul Christer Ahlstrom who said, "Design means business." And that is why this law should be supported, but it should also be asked where our national strategy for the development of Croatian design can be one of the most profitable Croatian products, as well as courtesy of the exterior and interior itself in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27928	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, Representative Željko Vincelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27929	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. According to the proposals, these amendments to the Industrial Design Act fully harmonize our legislation in the field of intellectual property with the European Union legal legislation launched by the new Industrial Design Act in 2003 and its additions in 2007. We know that design is essentially an external appearance of a product, an industrial design as one of the forms of intellectual property protects the spatial features of a product i.e. visible shape and outline, industrial or craft-made articles and its general characteristics, i.e. the patterns, lines, colors or textures and combinations of those characteristics. The protected industrial design shall provide the owner with the exclusive right to use, or to make, offers, placing on the market and import or export products. It represents an intellectual property whose use the owner may grant to other persons for a specified period of time by granting the licence or may fully transfer it to another person. The basic conditions some design must meet for recognition of protection are novelty and individual character of design and that its characteristics are not exclusively conditioned by technical function. In recent years, the growing expansion of the IPR system has been contributing among other things to globalisation, the increase in the number of innovations, quantity and trade in knowledge, mergers and takeover of companies. This process has been particularly expressed in the field of computer technology, telecommunications and electricity, and lately energy. These amendments to the laws amend the definition of a product whose design is protected introduces the possibility of continuing the process, protecting industrial design and when deadlines for carrying out an action have been missed, subject to payment of a special fee and costs. It then regulates the way in which the law on foreign, legal and natural persons is exercised through authorised representatives and certain technical details relating to the international registration of industrial design. For these reasons, the Croatian National Party Club will support the proposed amendments to the Industrial Design Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27930	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. The first one is President Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27931	Thank you, Madam Vice President and Mr Secretary of State, Director, colleagues and colleagues. In view of the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to align the rules in the field of intellectual property with the regulations of the European Union in the framework of the stabilisation and accession process to the European Union. The provisions of the Industrial Design Act are almost fully in line with the acquis of the European Union, Directive 98/71 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 October 98 on legal protection of design. Based on the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 16 October 2008, the adopted report on the fulfilment of the obligations set out in Chapter 7. Law of intellectual property of the State Intellectual Property Institute since 15 October 2008. In the report, among other things, the Republic of Croatia committed itself to further amending the Industrial Design Act in line with the recommendations made by the Commission during the negotiations, which is why it is necessary to adopt the proposed law. Amendments to the law are proposed in accordance with the negotiating positions of the Republic of Croatia for Chapter 7. The right to intellectual property. So the basic issues to be covered by the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Industrial Design are: amending product definition, predicting the possibility of a continuation of the procedure, amending the provisions on Community design, harmonising with the provisions of the IPR law and providing for a specific deadline for indicating the refusal of requests to extend the impact of international registration of industrial design. The proposed law fully aligns the meaning of Croatian legislation in the area of industrial design with the acquis of the European Union, including those provisions that will be applicable only from the moment of Croatia's accession to full membership in the European Union. I will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27932	Thank you very much. For individual debates, MP Zeljko Jovanovic is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27933	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So here I would take the opportunity to discuss this law to point out the many problems this activity has in Croatia. We're passing one law, and in fact these activities are almost gone. If we want Croatian products to be singled out in the world as competitive then it is very important that, apart from quality raw materials, a lot is invested in their diversity, in particular, through the policy of industrial design, as the basics of economic development everywhere in the world. Croatia has yet to take advantage of the potential of design as the backbone of the new competitiveness of the economy. A pioneering attempt by the Croatian design centre in 2004 that wanted to be a mediator between design, economy, government has not experienced strong enough support from the Government of the Republic of Croatia so far. Design development needs to be encouraged and refreshed, directly involved in strategic planning. Because the design not only forms products but also services, it creates added value for the manufacturer but also for the user whether it is housing equipment, portable computer, clothing, public service sector, or national identity. A very illustrating example of the Croatian Design Centre, which it launched, and yesterday we discussed both the past days, sustainable development, so they launched a project they called the Design for Sustainable Development. It was what they called an ice-breaking design project in the wood industry there. Croatia has huge raw materials export potential and the aim of this project was to encourage dialogue between Croatian designers and wood industry producers in Croatia to create all necessary preconditions for quality performance, competitive performance on both domestic and foreign markets. Let us only remember the Nordic examples of encouraging the development of design within individual industrial branches that were launched right after II. The World War, therefore, has been in industrial design for 60 years, so it is not surprising that Finland and Denmark have today reached this level thanks to industrial design. So, industrial design, we pass the law, in Croatia it is almost and missing, not cosmetic treatment of products, it actually solves the company's problem as a whole, where it cooperates multidisciplinaryly in all sectors of society. This project, the design for sustainable development, started in 2004, but the Croatian government has already denied all support for the project so that the potential of industrial design in Croatia is not being used at all. As far as I know, there are about 150 young designers in Croatia. Most of them work in marketing agencies or sales salons, and they prove their expertise and ability unfortunately in foreign competitions where they rarely win, but very little are used in Croatia. I therefore stress once again, the debate on this law should serve as an invitation for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to pay greater attention to the development of industrial design in Croatia, because behind every successful economy in the world today there is design as an unforgiving part of a competitive product. Once again, I remind you that Croatia covers 40% of the territory with the highest quality forests, but our wood industry, with all that quality wood mass, mainly performs semi-products or wood mass. Therefore, this is certainly not the way to ensure that business increases and profits and the value of shares, so it will be sad if we just pass this law, and in fact industrial design does not get the right place to enable the Croatian industry, that Croatian production works with greater profits, which will allow for the creation of new jobs, an increase in gross domestic product and, of course, a higher standard in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27934	Thank you very much. The individual debate was also reported by MP Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27935	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. At first I will say, I will support the Amendments and Supplements Act on Industrial Design, with the final proposal for a law because this legislative proposal is harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union. Proposing this legislative proposal, the Proposer states that in the course of the negotiations on Chapter 7, the Commission recommended that the Government of the Republic of Croatia accept further amendments to the Industrial Design Act, "National Journal" 173/03. and 76/07. which we have been applying since 1 January 2004 and the Industrial Design Regulation, "National Journal" 72/04. and 117/07. which entered into force on 14 November 2007 and thereby bring it into line with the acquis of the European Union, Directive 98/71 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 October 1998 on the legal protection of design. On the basis of such a view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Chapter 7. Negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, and in accordance with the Treaty's position on the Functioning of the Republic of Croatia for Chapter 7, we are obliged to implement in its legislation provisions which remove the remaining differences in legislation in this area in the first quarter of this year, and this is also explained by the urgent procedure in the adoption of this law. The text of the draft law is accompanied by a statement of compliance with the acquis of the European Union and a parallel demonstration of compliance with the provisions, and the proposal also contains provisions which will be applicable only from the moment of accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of the Republic of Croatia. This proposal amends and amends the terms of Article 2 by correcting the wrong or reduced translation of the English word "get up" translated into book equipment in the current law, because at that time it was most commonly used in relation to books, although its meaning is significantly broader and the word equipment is more appropriate and accurate. Because the product in terms of industrial design means any industrial or craft object including packaging, equipment, graphic symbols, typeographic letters, parts intended for fitting, but excluding computer programs. Therefore, this change in product definition is fully justified and necessary. Provisions concerning the date of submission of an industrial design application shall also be complemented in the context of an explicit prohibition of the extension of a subject whose protection is required, which shall determine the date of submission and the permitted amendments shall be made to the correction of the name or address of the applicant, the errors in the text or the transcription or any other obvious errors, but whose correction shall not extend to the subject of protection. The possibility of continuing the analogy procedure with the possibility provided for in the patent law allowing the applicant to apply for the registration of industrial design to carry out the missed action in the process if requested, to pay the administrative fee and compensation for the costs of the administrative procedure within two months of the date of knowledge of the legal consequences, regardless of the cause of the failure and its justification, shall also be introduced. The amendment of Article 44c unconditionally states that the design of the community and the application of community design are earlier design compared to national design design designs and design applications, after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of the European Union. The amendment of Article 51 of the applicable Industrial Design Act removes the contradiction that the IPR Act provides for the applicable IPR Act as authorised advocates only persons registered in the IPR Register, and allows for representation and lawyers registered in the register to be held at the IPR. The amendments to Article 52 shall regulate the time limit for the refusal of international registrations in such a way as to be extremely effective not from the date of receipt, but from the day of transmission, so it is appropriate for it to be longer and more than four months. And in the end, I repeat again, I support the amendments and additions to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27936	Thank you. We've exhausted all the requests for a hearing. The proposing representative no longer needs to address the MPs, so I am finalising this debate, and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27937	19. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Industrial Design Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 263, Proposer: The Government of the Republic of Croatia The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Industrial Design Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The law was passed by a majority vote with 108 votes in favour and 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27938	We are going to item six of today's agenda - Final bill on amendments to the patent law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 265 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. We also have amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee. Representative Miljenko Pavlakovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, once again.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27939	Here's another, Madam Vice President. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, here is a series of this package of amendments regarding intellectual property before you is an amendment to the patent law, which is also proposed to comply with the negotiating positions of the Republic of Croatia relating to Chapter 7. - Intellectual property rights. I also note that this chapter was closed in 19.12.2008 at an Intergovernmental Conference on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union at ministerial level. The main changes relate first to the arrangements of the Institute of Evidence on additional protection for medicinal products intended for human or animal use, and to the certificate of additional protection for plant protection products. The patent law in force now provides that a certificate may be issued where the basic patent is recognised for a medicinal product intended for humans or animals or for a plant protection product for which the prior authorisation of the competent national authority is required. Here we go with an amendment where the certificate can be issued in the case and when the basic patent is recognised for the product which is an integral part of the medicinal product intended for humans or animals or plant protection products to which it has been placed, it remains in force and whose placing on the market requires prior approval of the competent national authority. The second major amendment will address the issue of impact restriction in view of patents in the field of biotechnology. The applicable patent law regulates exclusively the right resulting from the provision of Article 59 of the Law, which is that the current norm prescribed that only rights with the determination of assumptions would not apply to biological material obtained by the distribution and multiplication of biological material released on the market by or with the consent of the holder of the patent. With the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, this territory is expanding throughout the market, the whole common market that is emerging in the European Union. The third amendment concerns the translation of European patents as well as the enlargement of European patents. More specifically, the application of the provisions of the London Agreement is regulated. In fact, the current law prescribes their application to European patents with effect on the Republic of Croatia through the Convention on the Recognition of European patents. All ambiguities are regulated before the entry into force of the European Agreement, and the proceedings under appeal relate to complaints completed after their entry into force. Also with other errors that have been seen in the application of the law itself, which are also being amended here in that section. We have also adopted the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives on Article 18, and on behalf of the Government, we accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27940	Thank you very much. Do any of the board presidents want to take a word for it? He doesn't want to. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, representative Kresimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27941	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government. Here's a few words. The area of patents in the Republic of Croatia, as already said, has been governed by the basic patent law published in the “National Journals” in 2003, 2005, and is applicable since 1 January 2004. In the framework of the Stabilisation and Association Process, the European Union is set out in Article 71. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to ensure a level of protection of intellectual property that exists in the European Union. Important claims and findings as well as comments. We mainly protect and we will be forced to protect the intellectual property of those who know, who know more, who create patents, who invest in knowledge, and that is part of what we call a knowledge-based economy. It's the first and most important finding I want here at the introduction highlighted. This proposal seeks to improve the protection of intellectual rights in certain areas relating to additional protection for medicinal products intended for human and animal use, additional protection for plant protection products and better legal protection of inventions in the field of biotechnology. Given the importance of this topic and its broader I would say not only economic but even political importance, I would comment a little wider on this area of patents, intellectual property and intellectual rights at all. The patent rights and their role and place in modern societies and economies are extremely important, and this type of intellectual property is trying to preserve, protect those who invest huge financial resources in creating new knowledge, new technologies, everything that provides competitive advantages in the open world market. Speaking of patents, it seems to me that we need to change the perception of what patents are, how they are today and where these intellectual values are created. The patents are now increasingly based on serious scientific and research activities, and increasingly on ad hoc ideas, innovations of brilliant or genius individuals. Through patents and patent rights, intellectual rights are being protected by more and more institutions and states, the world's best laboratories, and fewer individuals, as many patents economically based on knowledge stem from a set of national laboratories of the most developed states or multinational companies investing billions of dollars or euros in order to protect their competitive advantages through knowledge. One of the most important activities that all those involved or related to applied research have to do with the commercialisation of scientific work, which is very often reduced to that, patents, protection of interest, protection of invested capital in order to protect the interests of laboratories, companies, and states through this type of intellectual property. As I said, patents are mainly today the characteristics and privileges of the best scientific and research institutions, laboratories, and the forms of international cooperation through which competitiveness is achieved based on knowledge in the open world market. However, patented times may also be the form of certain provisions of those market niches which seem extremely important and prosperous and which large companies seek to protect themselves, which seek to protect themselves in order to protect a specific technological result when they achieve a certain profit, when they achieve perhaps a product, against potential competition. I had a recent opportunity to be a participant of such a competition that was related to a scientific research project whose personal manager and one of my associates, the assistants gave a lecture last year on one project at an American conference and now after the completion of the presentation of this work, the debate rose one man and said, you know, young sir, it's very interesting, it's good, it's complicated. You certainly won't be able to realize that final product you're talking about, but you need to know that what you're talking about we've already patented. The first time I heard that my assistant from America came back, that comment. What does that mean? I spoke to my colleagues later, and many others told me, many leading multinational companies in those market niches where they expect certain breakthroughs to protect patents from potential competition, and that's very interesting. Blocking commercialisation of potential competition through patent ideas. Not through the finished results of the scientific research product, not through the finished product, but only through the idea and it was a very interesting and important experience. The knowledge-based economy, we often talk about today, I would say very simply, in every country is proportionate, not only to the quality of research and development, but to the impact of this research and development on world science, not only through the number of published works and the weight and quality of these works, but especially through the number of patent applications and recognised patents on the international stage. As it seems in the Republic of Croatia, we can assume, but it is also not too much to stress that some leading institutions in the Republic of Croatia such as the Ruđer Boskovic Institute pay special attention and use certain World Bank funds and other financial institutions to protect the results of scientific and research work, possible innovation, possible patent and institutions. The patents pay particular attention, as I said they give large companies, primarily IBM, HP, Intel in that part that I know as a man who deals or deals with electronics, electronics, software and so on. Therefore, patents are the final part of scientific research that has its uses, which in the markets achieves the highest added value. And that is why knowledge-based economies are trying to do everything to ensure that these high levels of added value are commercialised and that, through these products, through patents, through research and development to their economies, provide high growth rates and high, I would say almost untouchable competitiveness in all those key sectors of the modern industry, information and communication technologies, biotechnology and today, certainly the area of energy. As we have heard from the new US administration in this segment, it is precisely this niche that seeks to pay special attention through very intense research and development, through publications, that part of it will be published, part of it will not be published, but in any case the leading companies, leading laboratories will seek to commercialise through appropriate patents to ensure, in particular, a leading position in the world in the field of renewable energy sources and, in accordance with their investments and efforts, appropriate revenues. Here, it's about one update of the proposal and addition of the law, the patent law. In any case, it was an opportunity to say about this segment of intellectual property and which sentence more because this area certainly deserves more attention in every society, thus also in the Republic of Croatia. Not only the attention and concern of the scientific community, but I would say special and appropriate political attention, care, but also responsibility and from all of this will certainly give full support to the Croatian Democratic Community's proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the patent law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27942	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27943	Honored Mr. President, honourable representatives and representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. For ten years now, the European Union has been trying to reach an agreement on a single patent protection system for the entire 20-nation bloc, and a month ago, the European Commissioner for Education and Culture said that until the agreement is reached, the United States will continue to attract the best European brains and earn their creativity. Here, today we have the opportunity to read an article from Business HR about an example of a Croatian scientist with a brilliant invention that may have the potential to treat or prevent the spread of AIDS or hepatitis, who, with his patent, went to the United States and should mention that he spent part of his working life in Pliva. Unfortunately, our pharmaceutical industry is no longer at high levels as it was. And here, unfortunately, Croatian scientists are looking for their happiness outside. Under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the patent law falls under Article 71 which speaks about the level of protection of intellectual property and this is extremely important for the accession process of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Articles 71 and 73 The Stabilisation and Association Agreements are less known, they are not so interesting but the Republic of Croatia, when it solves these political problems of the type of Piran Bay, etc., artillery logs, unless it solves these issues related to the protection of intellectual property and quality infrastructure, will face insurmountable difficulties in achieving its full membership in the European Union. And it is therefore truly commendable that we update these laws and address the problem of industrial ownership in Croatian legislation and harmonize it with the European acquis. Intellectual property theorists separate patents, stamps, geographical indications and industrial design as a special branch of the right called Industrial Property Law and the roots of this lie in 1883 when the Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property is signed in Paris, which is, in addition to many changes today, an integral part of the world system of protection of those patent rights. The patent system is in some way an exchange between an inventor who consents or agrees to reveal to the entire society the details of his invention in order to allow technological progress in exchange for the right of exclusive availability during a certain period of all income that arise from that patent. In order for an invention to be protected by a patent, it is necessary to fill the novelty of the invention in relation to the existing state of the technique and to possess an innovative level, or not to be contained in the coming, present state of the technique or its origin. In addition, industrial application of the invention or practical application within the industrial range is required. The State Institute for Intellectual Property is an institution that manages business in the registration of inventions, about patenting, but according to me, the problem of showing up in the patentability of certain inventions, because once something is reported as a patent, it is necessary to examine whether this invention truly meets all the conditions necessary to meet it and become a patent and it is also a very expensive, long-term and complex process that requires numerous expertise. It is good that the Croatian Law on Science and Higher Education also encourages academic entrepreneurship precisely to accelerate the transfer of knowledge from the academic and scientific community to the economy. Moreover, scientists are also encouraged to patent their knowledge, their knowledge, their inventions. Unfortunately, however, not in all areas of natural sciences alike, which should in fact somehow be corrected through a system of laws concerning science and higher education. In accordance with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the Republic of Croatia adopted the relevant laws in 2003, 2005, in 2007, so it was certain updates of the existing or the original law of 2003, and this simple induction shows that every odd year comes before the Parliament of this law and that even after 2009, we can assume that something will happen in 2011, because, with all these reasons that the respected fellow State Secretary has said why this law is updated is also the fact that in previous versions some contradictions and some errors related to the regulations that have come into force in the meantime, which are not directly related to the accession process. So this is the law that makes it right. So what I was quoting is said in the assessment of the situation, so we are correcting by a European law of haste, among other things, and certain errors that have occurred in the copying process. Because he says, let us mention article 6 that corrects the errors caused by the transcription of the text. So I ask the question, how can this be a mistake in copying the text adopted by the Croatian Parliament, so that it can come out in "The People's Newspaper" and then that we have to repair it through our sessions again. However, in any case, these earlier reasons are sufficient to update this law but here I appeal to the Government and its professional services to check the text and typing of this law so that it does not come back to repair in 2011 or earlier. And let us conclude this review of the area of patent law again with the words of the European Commissioner for Education and Culture, which says: "We must consider rewarding the quality, excellence and talent in Europe, and this is all about money and how intellectual property and patent rights are addressed." So his words can also be applied literally to the Republic of Croatia so that the government, through its system of laws and stimulating measures, would have to further stimulate invention, academic entrepreneurship and there is again a valuable initiative to forgive 50% of the 100 kuna for those who are inventors and apply for patenting. However, as I said, the problem arises in a very expensive and complex procedure that follows. And for which most inventors simply don't have money, because it's very, very expensive. In 2009, in the European Year of Programmes, which will include various national projects and debates in areas such as a sustainable development knowledge society, and applied arts and industry Brussels intends to strengthen awareness of the importance and creativity of innovation in creating a prosperous Europe. Is it not time for the Government to be more actively involved in these initiatives and to support even more the State Institute for Intellectual Property which, as far as I know, organises a number of events every year to strengthen this extremely important segment for free-cutting of capital, services and products, and create legal protection, a legal framework in the Republic of Croatia for the arrival of this capital that may be the most qualitative because it is based on knowledge? It's a little optimistic how to talk here from the pay phone at the moment we're in, because we don't know if we're in a crisis or recession, but in any case, these kind of activities can help us get out of this situation that we're definitely in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27944	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27945	Dear President of the Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. As well as the Industrial Design Act and the Patent Act as part of a set of laws in the field of intellectual property rights was adopted in 2003 and its amendments in 2005 and 2007. The patent is exclusively a right recognised for an invention that offers a new solution to a technical problem, which can refer to a product, process or application. It guarantees the owner the exclusive right to manufacture, use, place on the market or sell patent-protected inventions. It represents the property of which the owner may allow other persons for a certain period of time by granting licences or by fully transferring it to other persons. The essential conditions that an invention must meet for patent recognition are novelty in relation to the existing state of technique, inventive level and industrial applicability. In order to achieve patent protection for its invention, the notifier is obliged to disclose the technical details of his invention within the scope that enables the expert in the field of design or use of invention. Such a description of the invention becomes publicly available to all interested persons after a certain period of secrecy. In other words, the patent system is actually a kind of exchange in which the inventor agrees to reveal to society the details of his invention in order to allow technological progress in exchange for the right of exclusive availability during a certain period. These current amendments achieve full compliance with the current legal framework of the European Union in the area of patent rights, but e.g. with our law on representation in the area of industrial property rights in 2005, under which representation in the area of industrial property rights other than those registered in the register at the State Intellectual Property Office can be addressed by lawyers and law firms registered in the directory of the Croatian Bar of Law. The law also changes some grammatical errors, copy errors and errors caused by a bad or wrong translation of European norms, which warns that the fifth speed is not for all terrains and that more care should be taken into account and more expert eyes should be included in the making of the law. The envious amount of these mistakes points to the overindulgence of lawmakers in the previous versions that are now being corrected. I'm closing up. The Croatian National Party Club will support these amendments and additions to the patent law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27946	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27947	Dear President, distinguished guests, colleagues and colleagues. In the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to align the national and legislative framework in the field of intellectual property with the acquis of the European Union. Therefore, the objective of these proposals is to amend the same level of legal protection in the area at the time of accession to the European Union... as established in the Member States of the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The existing patent law regulates all important issues such as the subject matter of patent protection, right and procedure for obtaining patents, licences, additional protection, declaring zero and abolishing patent solutions, European patent application, international patent application, etc. And by proposing these amendments, the proposal for these amendments refers to the introduction of an additional protection certificate for medicinal products intended for human or animal use, to certificates of additional protection for plant protection products, shall be complemented in accordance with the negotiating position of the provisions governing the issue of impact limitations in relation to patents in the field of biotechnology. It is also more precise to regulate and regulate the content of translations of European patents, so it is a matter of harmonising and clarifying the provisions of the patent law in accordance with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and in accordance with the negotiating positions with the European Union in the chapter of intellectual property law. So these changes are one improvement and should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27948	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the Committee on Information, Information and Media will, in fact, cancel the meeting of the committee scheduled today at 14 o'clock, the chairman of the Committee, Nenad Stazic. And we still have one discussion. Individual. Mr. Representative Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27949	Dear President, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, any improvement in the law that leads to better quality protection of intellectual property is welcome, however, necessary. We are a country where often, at least in the academic community people mention those famous statements that a kilo of the brain is two brands, our society is still far away from the knowledge society but from a certain state in which we accept that knowledge is a key element for the development of the state. And this segment, the patent segment, is one of those where we theoretically far better stand than in practice. They are mostly patented by the product of scientific innovation but ultimately recognised by the country itself. I will briefly now quote, read part of the text from the recently discussed Sustainable Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which clearly states: "On the global market, those who have the capacity to invest, create new products and processes, markets in industry succeed. In order to build and maintain the capacity of innovation, it is necessary to generate creative ideas that come from strong and diverse basic research activities, to have a creative good... a motivated workforce and achieve an environment that recognises innovation and enables innovation to come to the market. [[You don't understand a word.]] He's moving on. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to increase resources for scientific research and scientific infrastructure in order to promote the development of fundamental ideas and guidelines that serve as a basis for innovation. That sounds really great. But what is the practice? In practice, Croatia would become a member of the European Union tomorrow would be a country with the least repeated, minimum public investment in scientific innovation. And what the state gives in scientific projects has led to Croatia today having a huge number of scientific projects, extremely underpaid, the average value of one scientific project in Croatia is 30 thousand kuna per year. What kind of science and what kind of innovation can be done with a little more than two and a half thousand kuna a month? No way! The other thing is the innovators themselves. Recently here in the Parliament I spoke to a few of them who have registered patents and one of them came with several new ones, actually innovations that were completely tested at institutes and universities here in Zagreb, asked for the help of the state, because the simple registration process is long and expensive, people do not have money for it. What he got from the state was a nice walk, walking between the government, the ministry and various agencies. There was no interest, but at the neck until then, he had several international companies all the time offering him money to buy that patent. In order for the matter, as a future patent, to be a better man to give up all rights in favour of the Republic of Croatia in advance, means his knowledge of the benefit of our country and of all citizens. In conclusion, we have capacity in the Republic of Croatia, we have smart people working on innovation, although mostly with their own resources, what is missing is the environment this strategy is talking about. There is no environment and support for innovators because we still have the example of this man and the misunderstanding of the state for innovation which leads to the loss of potential patents because eventually the innovators sell them to those who give them the most money, these are mostly foreign companies, and when a foreign company buys it then for the Republic of Croatia is a multiple loss and in money. Everything lies to change in the will of the state to create a better environment for the innovators and to create patents, at this point practice shows that you still lack will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27950	Thank you very much. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met. 20. Final draft law amending and supplementing the patent law, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 265 The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted these amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the patent law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by a majority vote with 106 votes in favour and 1 vote abstention along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27953	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen, distinguished parliamentary representatives. You have before you the proposal for a general product safety law. This is one of the priority issues of both the Member States of the European Union and the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, the General Product Safety Act prescribes that all products placed on the market must be safe. On the other hand, consumers should also have at their disposal all relevant information relating to the safety of products or services offered on the market. This law applies to all those products on the market whose area of safety has not been regulated by specific regulations and where the risks or types of risks that the product might pose in relation to consumers are not also provided for by other regulations. In order to ensure that the effective supervision of the implementation of this law or to ensure that producers, distributors fulfil their obligations relating to product safety, the State Inspectorate is designated as the competent authority responsible for the surveillance of the safety of products on the market which will have the power to take appropriate measures as well as the application of appropriate emergency measures in the event where the product poses a serious risk. Furthermore, as a competent market surveillance authority with regard to general product safety, it is necessary to adopt annual surveillance programmes of certain product categories or risks, to monitor and update health and technical knowledge regarding product safety and to regularly check and assess the functioning of the control system itself and its effectiveness, thus ensuring a high level of consumer health and safety protection. The issues to be addressed by this law are issues related to the general safety of products placed on the market, general safety and requirements and criteria for assessing the conformity of products, obligations of manufacturers and distributors when placing products on the market and informing the public, encouraging voluntary measures, a system of faster exchange of information, market surveillance and submission of complaints to product safety. For this very reason, it did not go to amendments and amendments to the law but to regulate and fully harmonise Croatian legislation with the practice of the European Union and to make the regulations as clear as possible and as easy as possible to apply them, the new General Product Safety Act is set out in this new Act. By regulating the safety of products on the market this way, it will ensure a high level of consumer protection and free flow of consumer goods. The law gives particular attention to the right of the public to be informed of dangerous products and contains provisions which obliges competent authorities to inform consumers in the event of such existence. In order to ensure product safety, the obligations of the manufacturer as well as the distributor are more precisely governed by this law. Manufacturers undertake to place on the market only safe products and to inform consumers of the instructions for use and other necessary notifications so that consumers can assess the risk of each individual product. Furthermore, distributors are also obliged to pay all professional attention and, in accordance with product safety regulations, to meet safety requirements. In relation to the business sector, this law encourages the voluntary action of manufacturers and distributors and the creation of proper, good practices in determining the product safety sector, which aims to avoid the use of repressive measures by competent inspection bodies, which can result in a negative impact on the business of economic operators. So both the manufacturer and the distributor have the possibility that at a certain point they may report certain deficiencies in each product. This requires and is expected to have positive effects on the implementation of such a product safety policy, it will greatly increase the level of general product safety on the Croatian market. Here's a brief explanation. We have also received an amendment from the Legislative Committee, and on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it proposes that the amendment be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27954	Thank you. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club Mr Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27955	Honored Mr. President, honourable representatives and representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. Even the Croatian consumer stays in shock once he realizes that he is treated as less valuable and as a second-row consumer. It is a terrible thing that this attitude sometimes applies to the whole country, so the "good for Croatia" password is valid in the west, and then some products worth only the Croatian market are placed on the Croatian market, they are good for Croatia, but in the west, in Western Europe, they have better quality in the European Union. And it is fortunate that there are civil society associations that are able and after many years to obtain court rulings that, for example, some detergents intended for the Croatian market are not as good as those of the same producer who are placed on the market of other European Union countries. It is similar with some cars that we have had opportunities to hear in the media that are inappropriately frequent or even self - burning. Therefore, it is a public secret that almost all or all of us, most of the products imported into our country are not as high-quality as products placed on Western markets by the same producers. However, there is a problem when it comes to product safety, as there is a need for a clearer definition of the situation when an insecure product appears on the market since it is of paramount importance in such situations, to inform the public about the appearance of an insecure product on the market, mainly because the product can also be intended for a consumer category such as children and older people who could be particularly sensitive to the risks posed by certain products. It is also true that products also have declarations in accordance with the requirements of the European Union. But I'm asking who can, for example, read this on this one vial. Well, that's a normal man with normal eyesight and glasses and no glasses there's no way to read it and then serve and help, so here's what the contents of this vial are. It's all right until there's no danger to products, but that's why it's this one, it's the law and it's passed. It is the crown of these laws relating to quality infrastructure relating to Article 73. A Stabilisation and Association Agreement that I have already mentioned several times. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia must have a functional quality infrastructure, which includes standardisation, measurement, accreditation, product conformity testing and, in the wider context, intellectual property. Because this Product Safety Act simply cannot be in documented application unless we have a functional quality infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. institutions that will ensure that products truly meet the conditions on which they are placed. This is, of course, assumed by the existence of a high-quality, qualified competent one word accredited laboratory that will examine the properties of the products which are then declared to satisfy the conditions of this law. In this context, it should also be mentioned that the infrastructure of quality, in particular the Croatian accreditation agency and the Croatian Bureau of Standards and intellectually, the State Institute for Intellectual Property are one of the bright points of our accession to the European Union, and several times already, on several occasions, in the report on the progress of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, these segments receive not only passing but excellent assessments. The fact is that the quality infrastructure is mainly attended by Croatian experts, scientists, engineers. At present, we have as many as 128 accredited laboratories that carry out certain tests, and this number is on a steady rise and because of their competences, the safety of Croatian citizens is growing. Because they can be sure that certain products that are placed on the Croatian market are then truly meeting the standards and standards needed to meet that product to be safe. However, I will remind you that as a condition for Croatia's accession to the European Union, it is necessary for Croatia to adopt 85% of some 20s and some thousands of European norms, and that we are about halfway around now. And I repeat once again that the Republic of Croatia could happen to meet all the political conditions necessary for joining the Union and that this barrier of technical legislation relating to quality infrastructure to a greater extent and a lesser extent of intellectual property becomes an insurmountable obstacle to our full membership. It is therefore necessary to speed up these processes, speed up measures related to meeting the conditions set out in Articles 71 and 73 in particular. In any case, the functional quality infrastructure system, in particular accreditation and normisation, is essential for both the functioning and application of this law, which should certainly be welcomed. But further efforts need to be made. We hope that after the Croatian Parliament adopts this horizontal law that deals with the security of all those products that are not directly covered by European directives or other regulations, it will indeed be increased and that consumers will no longer be so exposed to the reckless savageness of the market that they are trying to earn in the most unscrupulous ways by jeopardising even the health and lives of consumers. So these examples that I've highlighted with these microscopic labels are just harmless and peripheral examples of what might actually happen if we don't have a functional set of laws that we're discussing this morning and we accept, provided we have competent laboratories, but also a condition that we have a functional inspection that will then control the implementation. And then the rule of law which will spotfully sanction the violations arising from the non-compliance of these laws and ultimately need to be had, which is what we also have the happiness of civil society associations that oversee this entire segment and have the dignity, courage and will to deal with both European and world giants, pharmaceuticals, biochemical and other industries and even win legal battles here in the Republic of Croatia at the front of consumer protection and the population of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27956	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27957	Mr. President, honored guests, colleagues and colleagues. One tangible result or benefits from Croatia's accession to the European Union, or from harmonising our standards with European standards, is certainly consumer protection. This is a sensitive area, European standards are higher than what we are used to and harmonisation of Croatian standards in this area is a direct benefit for citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In this respect, the HNS Club also looks at this bill and this bill is certainly an improvement in this area and contributes to harmonisation of standards in Croatia with those who rule within the Union. I must say on behalf of the HNS Club that it is a refreshing and absolutely positive shift that this is a new law, not a proverbial amendment and addition, because with many amendments and additions of different laws that we have come into a situation where it is no longer fully clear what is in fact the content of a valid law, and which is not to what extent one and the same law is harmonised, not with European standards but within itself. And for this reason, we believe in HNS that it is absolutely commendable and good practice and should follow it that when one legal text experiences a large number of amendments and additions to go with a whole proposal of text instead of amendments and amendments to the law, so simply with a new law because it contributes to the consistency of the legal text within itself. This new law regulates the situation when insecure products are found on the market or when an insecure product is found on the market. Secondly, supervisory functions that are united under the State Inspectorate are united, which is particularly important because when supervisory functions are dispersed, then it is possible to play between different authorities that are responsible for supervision and thus to avoid successful surveillance when the function is united, it is certainly also a positive shift. Perhaps the most important component of this law is to commit the competent authority to the adoption of an annual control programme of certain categories of products or risks. This is a kind of prevention programme and unlike what we have so far, which is that control is carried out solely on the basis of complaints, there is, or an annual plan is being introduced, where, whether there are complaints or not in risk areas that are given both statistically and otherwise, will be systematically controlled, therefore, it will be possible to prevent the placing of a harmful product on the market rather than simply reacting later when it happened. I'm using this opportunity to warn myself that it's a model of control that should absolutely be mirrored on, say, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement that we've established, but we've absolutely cut off the possibility of action just because it doesn't have this possibility that, by some kind of annual plan or by some kind of assessment, it controls public procurement procedures regardless of complaints, and we've only reduced it to the ability to control only when someone complains. This model that is introduced to ensure or guarantee product safety is obviously much more rational and is actually going towards increasing product safety or reducing the risk of insecure or dangerous products, and not only to create a nice window, therefore it is a good model and should be followed especially in this case of public procurement where we have so far the situation as it was in the area of product safety control, but this law is changing. Finally, there is a system of good practice that makes producers and distributors themselves part of the risk prevention system for certain products. This is also positively in line with European standards, therefore the HNS club supports both the intensity and content of this law. On the other hand, we are faced after the adoption of such a law with a particular problem, which is our current Consumer Protection Act. Six months or more ago, the National Committee organised a Round Table on Consumer Protection since it was chapter 28 – Consumer and Health Protection and there was a whole range of representatives of civil associations, state institutions, representatives of the European Commission and the Consumer Protection Commissioner discussed this topic and praised our law, the new Consumer Protection Act, but everyone asked how and why we could have passed the Consumer Protection Act, which was a positive shift and then delayed its application. So we have a good law but we don't apply it. Now, in a situation where we have to say some kind of roof law about this area that doesn't apply segmentary laws like this one that we're going to start applying as it says here eight days from the day of publication in "The People's Newspaper". How are those two components going to work? That's what I'd ask the promoters to say about it. There are certain announcements that the Consumer Protection Act will be amended in part in accordance with the new directives. But much more important for us as Parliament and as the people who represent the citizens of this country is to change the date of application of the Consumer Protection Act, so instead of having good laws that we do not apply and the bad laws that we try in this case may change that practice and start good laws to the extent that we have them and apply them. As regards negotiations and this law of course has to do with negotiations and meeting and some obligations which we have a higher European Commission on harmonising the level of consumer protection with those in Europe, this chapter is one of those that we have opened, so the negotiations in Chapter 28 – Consumer protection and health we have opened. We have four criteria for closing that chapter, so four preconditions so that we can close the negotiations in that chapter and of course we haven't closed it. Therefore, anything that leads in that direction to fulfill the commitments taken and yet unfulfilled is positive for us at this level. So we think it's about a law that's a positive shift, which runs a particularly important institute, and that's not control over the basis of the complaint, but control on the basis of the annual plan. We believe that the important problem for this law and in particular its implementation is that, at the same time, the roof law, which is the Consumer Protection Act, does not implement and does not enter into force, so the one we have but has been delayed. So that's one problem that needs to be solved but of course given the content of this law which is a positive shift of the HNS club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27958	Thank you very much. Now we'd move on to an individual debate and we'd be over at 3:00. Now we're gonna break up. The first is Mr Branko Box, then Stjepan Milinkovic and so on. At 3:00, we'll continue the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27959	We're moving on with the session. Mr. Representative Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27960	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Product safety is a matter of utmost importance both in the Member States of the European Union and in the Republic of Croatia. Consumer protection policy as end-users of products is important for the establishment and functioning of the common market. The provisions of this law oblige the manufacturer to place only safe products on the market. The product shall be considered safe where there are no specific rules of the European Community on product safety in accordance with specific rules which comply with the Treaty on European Community which establish the health safety requirements that the product must satisfy in order to be placed on the market. In order for the safety of the product to be guaranteed, manufacturers must inform consumers and other users of the instructions for use and other necessary notifications so that consumers may assess the risks of a product-specific product during its normal or reasonably predictable use where such risks are not immediately noticeable without appropriate warnings and take precautions against those risks. In accordance with the characteristics of the products that supply the measures that enable them to notify in a timely manner the risks that these products may pose and take appropriate measures, where appropriate and withdraw products from the market or return of products from consumers, in order to avoid risks. Take a measure of return from consumers only in the event that the long measures are not sufficient to prevent certain risks, where they consider it necessary or when they are forced to do so teachingly to the measure taken by the competent authority. In order for the safety of the product to be guaranteed under the provisions of this law, distributors must pay due attention to the withdrawal of measures contributing to the application of security requirements. In particular, they shall not deliver products which they know should be aware of on the basis of the notifications they possess or as professionals that they do not satisfy the safety conditions, or must participate in the monitoring of the safety of products placed on the market, of the notifications concerning the risk of the product to be kept and of the documents necessary for the monitoring of the origin of the product, and shall cooperate within the limits of their activities with the competent authorities and manufacturers in order to take measures to prevent the risk. The provisions of this law introduce the obligation of the competent authority to make available to the public the information it has on the safety and health risks caused by the product. The jurisdiction of the State Inspectorate shall be prescribed for inspection of the implementation of this Act. In the event that products pose a serious risk, inspectors are authorised under the provisions of this law to take all necessary procedures for the urgent application of the appropriate measures, and they must act in such a way as to implement these measures in a manner... the seriousness of the risk and taking care of the precautionary principle, i.e. that the measure taken must be appropriate to the nature of the threat or risk. It's final. This proposal for legislation regulates product safety more closely to ensure that only safe products are offered on the market and that consumers can dispose of all relevant information relating to their safety. The products offered on the market must comply with safety standards and provide consumers with the full information necessary for a good choice of them. All praises to the maker, and I will vote to pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27961	Thank you. Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27962	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here I would almost give up when a colleague before me is such a good debate, but I would certainly like to repeat a few basic concepts, which are concepts of product, safe product and dangerous product. So let's say that the product is marked by any product including a product in the form of the provision of services intended for consumers or which, in reasonably predictable conditions, consumers may use even if it is not intended for them, and which is delivered and made available with payment or free of charge under some commercial activity regardless of whether they eat new, used or processed. Second, the safe product shall indicate any product which, in normal or reasonably predictable conditions of use, including the duration and, where appropriate, the application of the installation and maintenance requirements does not pose any risk or only a minimum risk compatible with the product administration and which is considered acceptable to a high level of safety and health. And a dangerous product is one that does not conform to the definition in the two paragraphs. So, I want to say that every country is interested in product safety, and so is Croatia, of course, in a wider environment and in the European Union, of course, of course, we come there, as well as for safety, but of course for the market. In the European Union, of course, this is regulated in the context of the consumer and market protection chapters and there are those general safety directives. It means 22001 Directives and Directives on insecure products which are incorporated into our laws on mandatory relations, on invalid products and on this general safety of the products of 2003. This 2003 law was updated in 2007 and these directives were incorporated and gave certain quality for sure, but a certain problem arose when insecure products appeared on the market. Well, here's the chance, unfortunately, the last year we saw, when someone mentioned melamine, for example. His hair kind of gets on his head, because it's really about children and people. In this regard, we need to make sure that such things behave in such situations. How to inform, and that moment certainly required that it go on. Second, the very moment of surveillance also showed that various areas of surveillance overlap. And that was the moment that in some way demanded that we make a new law that we now have before us. And what newspaper is this law? This is therefore the general safety of products placed on the market, general and security requirements and criteria for assessing the conformity of products, obligations of manufacturers and distributors when placing products on the market, informing the public, encouraging voluntary measures, the system of rapid exchange of notifications, market surveillance, the application for product safety and, of course, the infringement provisions. I would perhaps specifically refer to this information to the public. Here's what we had a chance to discuss tobacco products. We had a chance when it was particularly pointed out that tobacco products needed in some way to indicate that moment here this product kills. I hope that the law that we've brought here in this time since it was passed that some results have been achieved, that the number of smokers has fallen. Well, I guess that's good. The second moment that stuck my eye in particular is to encourage voluntary measures. Incentive of voluntary measures, therefore, manufacturers and distributors will be encouraged to act voluntarily and to establish good practice rules in certain product safety sectors, thus trying to avoid the use of repressive measures by the competent authority. Well, here I am a little restrained about these voluntary measures and these practices. Here I think that the inspectorate, here now this law inspectorate comes into office that the inspectorate will have work to do further, so the inspectorate will have to do and as a competent market surveillance authority in terms of general safety it is required to bring annual surveillance programmes of certain categories of products or risks, to monitor and update scientific and technical knowledge on product safety and to regularly check and assess the functioning of the surveillance system and its effectiveness in such a way to ensure a high level of consumer health and safety protection. So, surely, this new law will improve this very significantly undermines and I really think it will contribute well, and of course in this part it has a label and P.Z.E. and that it should be accepted with those praises that the colleague said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27963	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27964	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, please take a look at this law, the final law on general product safety that certainly has one basic point, which is to protect consumers from products that can endanger their health or lifestyle. It is a very important issue for the functioning and safety of each market, and so is our Croatian market. The appearance of an insecure product on the market endangers all categories of consumers, in particular, there have already been speeches, may be children, older people, who are somehow the most risky groups. Today we are also witnessing the placing on the market of food products and can be related to their origin, for example GMO products, which is certainly questionable then how high they are, or should they be on the market if there are laws that do not use GMO products or even worse products in which life-threatening substances are involved. He mentioned melamine in milk and encouraged more milk production. So what happened after that, the diseases of children, etc., the creators of these products are here in China and convicted, I think there was also a conviction to death. However, often everything is aimed at ensuring a growing profit and therefore such products are produced, placed on the market and endangering people. Products and also articles of general use, products containing dangerous chemicals, biocidal products. Therefore, all of these are products that can be found on the market and which often belong to a group of dangerous products. The emergence of such products on the market is precisely indicating the need for rapid intervention and the determination of the occurrence of the dangerous product and its withdrawal, which is an important withdrawal from sales. Until now, it's often been that the jurisdiction of certain inspections has been intertwined, I don't know, market, these, those. However, by this law which is certainly good, this law defines who will be the one who will need and do sampling of goods already on shelves because it is very important to know who will do it and how and how, because they are often controlled on, precisely at borders insufficient with goods coming from imports. I think we're famous for that import, as a state and are also known cases, like chicken and beef that came from South America for which quality it does not satisfy and is not in a quality way previously reviewed their entry at the border. We also have examples of toys that come with containers from overseas countries, the Far East where there are problematic colors for children's health, toys from which hair loss and are also dangerous, can be like products for those who use them. These examples suggest that the safety of people and children may be compromised by products that are not controlled enough because, therefore, this law is also required as well as the decidation which inspection will take care of the implementation of this law. The regulation of product safety on the market will also ensure a high level of consumer protection and free flow of consumer goods. As part of this, the normal part and the part that speaks of the public's right to be informed about dangerous products is very important. Because there were often conditions for the information to be hidden. We had an example maybe 10 years ago that a product of megamine produced in Osijek, which by its composition did not satisfy the conditions of production was not given up to the public, although the manufacturer was so much, that I'm not saying that he could give false information, but was trying, was also even trying to reverse the findings of sanitary inspections by the court and those inspectors who did so were even sued. Therefore, public intelligence is very important and I believe in this part of the law also shows one quality, a new quality. That is why I consider this the appointment of one inspectorate, as the competent national inspectorate, the competent authority responsible for the surveillance of the safety of products on the market. I think that this is progress and that you will know who is responsible and who should take urgent action in cases where the product poses a serious risk to the consumer. I think it's very important to intervene at a certain point and withdraw such products. I therefore believe that this Final Bill also has one and will certainly mean one improvement in the control of general product safety. It is primarily because of us, and it should be supported and it should be brought but primarily because of ourselves and not just because of compliance with European norms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27965	Thank you. Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27966	Dear Vice President, representatives of the government. This is a topic that must certainly be of interest to every citizen, and I think it is mainly about all those who are parents and even more about who are grandparents. In fact, we begin to think about some things as we grow older or as there are more of those in our environment that we need to care about or share love with. I don't belong to nostalgics when there are certain things in society because we know that in circumstances that change, change and give. Until the '90s. We had a relatively closed market, we had a Republic Health Protection Office, we had every product that entered across the border or raw materials for food or other purposes to pencils, where the institution in question was checking its health and in-house quality and correctness. The liberalisation leads to the open market and that it is almost impossible for each product to be controlled according to the model method of a particular product type. But the United States has, I won't say for a hundred years, a Food and Drug Agency that belongs to a liberal America in one of the most rigorous and rigorous control and testing and verification of food or medicinal products and raw materials as a means of protecting its citizens. And I think we need to try to find one environment between possible, realistically possible and what should satisfy us. In fact, as far as I was able to hear from my colleague, we are now flooded with products from the Far East and the Far East containing certain declarations. However, our education and even the education of traders on declarations and labels is insufficient to provide information to the customer he wants. I'll point out that's why I said grandparents, an example of toys. Are these toys, the composition of their raw materials, produced in a way that is not harmful to the health of children or environments? Secondly, I'm going to give an example of the United States. We meet with products that have absolutely undefined declarations. I'll go after the one who's not tied to safety. You in the United States can't buy the shirt of the world's most famous and their American producers without being sewn up in which country it's sewn together. Not the manufacturer, the raw material, and all the technology, but also the country where it's sewn. We have products that unfortunately do not indicate origin or, as a colleague said, you need an electronic microscope to read what it says. Another thing that's also important, which is that in certain types of products, you actually have a consumer scam where you could say that it's bestowing on the state. This country doesn't mean any government. I'll give you concrete examples. You can buy a product that says it is not intended for the territory of the European Union. It's for sale with us. Consumer protection is one law, but protection of citizens, citizens of this state are not citizens of the second order, they do not have to be enlightened, but competent institutions should act not on the example of ad hoc, but on a constant and concessive basis that such phenomena do not occur because it is a loss of national wealth. If you buy a product that costs 1000 euros and if it is such a quality that it does not endure two or three years of use, while the standard is a minimum of 7 to 9, then it means that the outflow of funds from this country that damages national wealth because through this type of placement of products that are inadequate quality or sustainability. I therefore think that regardless of the negotiations, there will still be a lot of words about this, with the European Union, in order to try to build in the normative activities certain mechanisms to protect ourselves in the course of customs and all those import procedures from any part of the world, our wealth, but our health in particular. If possible, I would argue that any product intended for wide consumption, from toys, food products, goes beyond the control of the competent state body, state institutions, agencies or institutions, but I know it is impossible. And I plead, I support the adoption of this act, but I plead that we work more in the field of enriching protection measures because not everyone, some don't want to be educated until it's too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27967	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27968	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, with great approval, we are both here and as a club and all individually, welcome this proposal for a general product safety bill. Let us remember only the Food Act and when, already in 2004, it seems to me to be a food agency, unfortunately it has been presented as an example of decentralisation because it is located in Osijek, although this is not primarily an example of decentralisation, but should be an example of the role of the agencies of the individual who are forming and created by the Ministry for such special, important and important jobs primarily for the citizens, for their safety. However, to return to the very subject matter of this law at all. This bill is so much more important, unfortunately, and our production is getting smaller and smaller. Our production decreases rapidly as observed early in 2007 when it was practically a major announcement of the crisis. We ignored that. However, regardless of the products or imports, but the more we depend on imports, the more necessary this law is. We're witnessing that cheap products and bad products are being imported to tell us in Dalmatia that it's not worth it, nor is it worth it. At this time, however, we are not as rich as the English would say that they buy bad products. Bad products are harmful and as cheap as they are expensive products. This bill of law is an attempt to put an end to it but it seems to me that it was not rigorous enough as our laws can be rigorous when they refer to citizens, when only they are addressed. They're mostly producers here. And I don't know why we, as a country, are always in some way independent of corporations, to legal persons, unlike natural persons. And they're kind of getting a higher degree of tolerance from the bill, when it comes to the law, and we're not talking about what it looks like all voluntary, well-intentioned in the application itself. While almost every law is strict and has a very sharp application when it comes to ordinary citizens. That is why it is quite unclear why these violation provisions that speak of criminal fines are in the range of 50 to 250,000 kuna. These are too few penalties for the consequences that may arise from the harmfulness of certain products. These products, here's why I don't repeat everything that my colleague Hanzek said can be poisonous. The causal link doesn't even have to be immediately because it's a product. Why is their special danger? Because their causal-consequential relationship between their harmfulness, toxicity, dangers is often not immediately, does not occur immediately but during a certain period, during a certain period. And the consequences can be very fatal. There's a Penal Code pretty sharp. The second question is that this causal relationship is almost rarely established and we almost have no convictions for such crimes. And we're aware of what's being offered on our market. It's not, it's just talking about state order and it's a lot at the end. Such products, which are found in our shops, testify to the order of a country on our market or not. Therefore, by supporting this bill, it seems to me that perhaps if the promoter has some time to think about it. But in any case, here is his application, I believe, if it is consistent, it will also point to the need for stricter sanctions, above all those which are therefore defined as a violation here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27969	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27970	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. So when we talk about product safety, I'll primarily focus on children's toys. In fact, we're all parents, grandparents, depending on how old we are and of course we're kind of the most sensitive to children. The fact is also that especially in small children almost every product, each toy all they have in hand at a certain point becomes food. In fact, the child puts almost everything in his hand at a certain point in time and thus puts himself in a position to put what enters his mouth in either his chemical, his physical influence, or any other threat to the child’s health. It is clear to us that toys pass extensive examinations before they even enter the market. Their appearance is controlled, their composition controlled physically, chemically controlled, all possible adverse effects, radioactivity controlled, resolution controlled. So there's no tiny bits a child can swallow. In Croatia, so-called C declaration. So a document that shows us in a certain way that something has been made in accordance with all the security regulations. But what we are concerned about and why we believe that such a law is extremely important for the Republic of Croatia is that our market is still being penetrated by children's toys, penetrated and various other children's supplies, which are suspicious sources, which are forged, which are treated with inadequate means and which ultimately succeed in some way and we know that today is not a problem forging any profit and so on. CE sign we need to be some kind of guarantee. Not wanting to hurt this opportunity, let's say the chain of commerce we all know that we have in every city, so now, even in the villages of the store where the toys directly imported from China are sold through various channels that are bought in kilograms or even better tonnes and come to such shops, come to markets etc. Of course, the economic situation and frequent lack of money force parents, friends, relatives, and all those who have little sensitivity to children to buy one of the toys, so if some doll is more favourable or cheaper in such sources, it is purchased in such sources. We saw that in 2007, let's say a huge number of toys and other children's supplies were withdrawn from the world market. We heard that a famous company called “Matel” that produces Barbies that have ruled the world of toys has withdrawn millions of pieces from sales. She withdrew, therefore, certain concessions in terms of financial compensation in order to protect her name because in today’s time, the question is, where is the product being produced? Today, you do not actually have a product that is almost entirely manufactured either in China or in the countries of the Far East where labour is cheaper, where it is often done in uncontrollable conditions and where what we get is a question of whether it is subject to, I will not say that it is not subject to it so as not to offend the work of security institutions. Therefore, the question whether it is subject to all those safety requirements that need to be met and criteria to be subject to. The European Union has arranged that, therefore, this security issue in such a way that the manufacturer is responsible for what it produces, and if it imports, then its representative. If there is no representative, the importer will answer. So, it's all arranged. But the fact is that our inspections have neither capacity nor manage to send everything away, especially according to these, to tell the facilities, and we have Chinese trade, not one but hundreds, here in Zagreb. The question is whether it's working to control everything. I speak first of all, not only as a parliamentary representative, but I speak as a concerned parent who gets a toy, so my grandson, who is almost four years old, gets a toy from a friend. It's embarrassing to ask where it's bought, how it's bought and so on, especially the troubled stuffed toys that can be bought that can carry anything. How to train in terms of washing, cleaning or not knowing what to do before you let a child not put it in his mouth? We used to have no trouble playing because it wasn't that much of a toy offer, but I don't think I have to pass on concerns to everyone else and I believe most of the MPs agree with me. So I think that a law that not only in terms of regulations will regulate certain things, but that will also in some way force control mechanisms to work and thus improve safety because it will certainly never be complete and we are all aware of that, at least in the area I'm talking about, and now let's say specifically about toys. Such a law should be welcomed and we welcome it and, of course, I will vote for it myself. I guess my colleagues, too. Maybe you should mention that we, I'm not going to say that officially, but we almost officially have a gray toy market. Whoever deals with toys knows where they're going, as they say, to buy big toys. Is this where they need these controls that are unpredictable, instantaneous, without notice again on some statistical principle because they can't control everything? So is there a need to strengthen control or that market if it's known to contain it completely? This is a question I hope that after the adoption of this law, the same will be addressed in a certain way. My colleagues also mentioned the question of food. It's a special story. A special story of health, food for children. Is our food so much that I don't say unhealthy that we have to buy everything from the outside, that's the question now? I know my grandson is still spending Podravka's food and he's extremely satisfied and this may be advocating a domestic company, but it doesn't matter, we're in the Croatian Parliament, it's allowed. To conclude, I am pleased and will be pleased to support this law because I think it will contribute to the safety of all our children as if I did not go into demographic analysis, we know that our children are very important to us, and I only ask that after the law has been passed, it is in the implementing sense that we are trying to strengthen those mechanisms of control and, in some ways, direct them to even more intensive work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27971	Thank you. It's home-made. Final review, State Secretary Miljenko Pavlakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27972	... I see that we all agreed that this law was also done in the best of intentions and that in practice it will be applied in a simple way, which is very important. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] However, it should be pointed out that we solve all the misunderstandings, which is that the Consumer Protection Act is neither covered by this law nor disrupted by this law, nor vice versa. However, Article 13 of this Law provides that consumers may offer to the State Inspectorate written objections concerning the safety of each product. So this role continues to be potentiated so that citizens can communicate directly with the State Inspectorate in this way. It is also the 2007 consumer protection law that stipulates that the application of some articles will not be activated, but that the amendment and addition of the law in question is addressed in the procedure of the Government of Croatia so that the two articles will be activated even more likely during this year 2009. As far as further supervision is concerned, this law is laid down by the State Inspectorate so that protection of consumer rights against the safety product is in no way brought into question. And finally, as far as the repressive measures are concerned. You have read that in the law itself is just spoken with the intensity of voluntary incentivization of manufacturers and distributors to react with their consciousness. The penalties that are set, which is between 50 and 250 thousand kuna, is one measure, and it was precisely a suggestion as regards the European Commission that penalties can be charged, for one thing, and the other as an indicator of practices in other European Union countries is that they do not even charge the fines because precisely the awareness of the producers themselves, gentlemen of the representatives you are and commented on, is that they react themselves, and this is the aim of preventing further damage both to all consumers and, of course, to their companies, so that they do not have to submit further consequences on the harmfulness of a product. Here, I'd like so much and thank you very much once more.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27973	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27974	Final draft law on general product safety, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 267, Proposer: The Government of the Republic of Croatia The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted these amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final proposal of the General Product Safety Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law has been passed by most votes. 109 votes for and 1 abstention along with the amendments accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27975	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. - Final draft law amending the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semiconducts, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. The discussion was conducted by the Committees on legislation, European integration and the economy. You received the reports at the session. Representative of the Proposer, State Secretary Miljenko Pavlaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27976	Thank you again, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. We are going back to a set of those questions about both intellectual property itself and intellectual property rights. Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semi-Horizonal Products are proposed in accordance with the negotiating positions of the Republic of Croatia for Chapter 7 – Intellectual Property Rights. There's what's been said before. The chapter was closed in 19.12.2008 so that with the fulfilment of the obligations of the Republic of Croatia to bring these amendments. The proposed law would fully harmonise Croatian legislation in this area to protect the topography of semi-manufactured products with the legal gains of the European Union, including those provisions that will only be applied at the time of Croatia's entry into full membership of the European Union. The proposed Act on Amendments regulates issues exclusively consisting of the right to multiply and place on the market protected topography and of the issue of depletion of the right to market. It is this issue that the exhaustion of the right from the moment of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union will be subject to a provision whereby placing on the market protected topography or semi-ductive products produced by the use of protected topography by a person authorised to authorise the commercial exploitation of topography or by someone else, with its consent in the territory of a Member State of the European Union or of a European Economic Area. ... the areas of the Republic of Croatia exclude the rights relating to commercial exploitation and import for those purposes of protected topography as well as the product to which it is intended. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, that's a brief explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27977	Thank you. The committees? I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives Mr. Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27978	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government. Here are a few words about this bill and amendments to the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semi-Horizonal Products. What is really said in the opening part is very clear. To prevent possible abuse that would relate to commercial exploitation of topography of different semiconductor products from all those who have such intentions. This part of the law belongs to a group of laws aimed at protecting intellectual property but also to laws that determine the technology sector relating to the area of the semiconductor industry. Of course, the protection of topography of semiconductor products in the Republic of Croatia is governed by the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semi-Legal Products as well as the relevant international contracts which the Republic of Croatia has joined. It is indeed an important part of the economic sector of the modern world of the semiconductor industry, which weighs hundreds of billions of euros. In any case, the world’s leading knowledge and production companies in that part of the Inter, Motorola, AND, National Texas etc. are known. It is products such as micro processors, signal processors, different arithmetic processors, different analogue-digit converters, digital-analogic, different digital and analogue assemblies representing libraries of a vast knowledge fund that enables today's submicroscopic technology that is capable of being able to produce or install tens of millions of transistors on the surface of a chip a centimetre times a centimetre. This in some ways best illustrates the process power of such hardware, such assemblies and this process power and these technology capabilities today we use daily mobiles, computers of various kinds etc. Therefore, it is indeed an important part of the industry in which the Republic of Croatia unfortunately lost its pace for various reasons and today almost does not participate and earn that part of the cake that once made RIZ, so at times Tesla, Končar, etc. The existing Law on the Protection of Topography of Semi-Horizonal Products, with the definition of basic terms, regulates the following issues, subject to protection, means the type of assembly subject to protection, protection and protection conditions, registration procedures including appeal proceedings, protection effects and restrictions, the duration of exclusive rights, civil and legal protection, etc. What is useful and good to read is in this part of three that refers to the consequences that will result from the adoption of this law, so I would read them. The following is said: "The proposed harmonisation of the rules of the Croatian legal system in the area of protection of the topography of semiconductor products is significantly approaching European and international legal systems, which for the consequence has to meet the necessary requirements for the integration of the Republic of Croatia.". If a man reads this quickly, he might be able to make something important even happen in the technology sector. Unfortunately, we are actually approaching and adopting legal frameworks without any consequences that can have any positive effect on the Croatian economy or by adopting these laws in some way protecting the economies of all those who participate in the industry of semiconductors, etc. IPR-based industry based on silicon technology. There are numerous databases containing different types of chips that participate and help produce more complex integrated circles. These documents also contain the necessary technological data, surfaces, consumption of each chip, speed, and all that is important for the achievement of the architecture of advanced technologies. Finally, I would say the following part of the law, the State Intellectual Property Institute, has made a significant effort to make these draft laws after tomorrow's vote part of Croatian legislation. In any case, in such discussions besides these formal and legal reasons, it should be noted, the prominent importance of all these laws and highlighted and warned about the industries and technologies that their rights on the market are very jealous of, because they are the result of huge investments and efforts not only of these companies but of the companies to which these companies belong. The HDZ Club will give support to the draft law according to everything said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27979	Thank you. SDP representative club Mr Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27980	Honored Mr. Vice President, the honorable representatives of the Government, the Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. So from this slightly mysterious title of this law, there is another segment of the law in the field of intellectual property, and it refers to the layout of the elements on printed tiles that are by no means the same as they are composed. This is the whole of one science that deals with this and, consequently, logically, it is also protected as intellectual property under this segment of industrial law. Much is said today about this set of laws relating to intellectual property and the approximation of the Republic of Croatia to the acquis of the European Union in that segment and Mr. Secretary of State almost gave identical speeches for each of these laws. However, one key question is raised. It is said that by adopting this law, we will draw significantly closer to European and international legal systems, which will result in the integration of the Republic, the acceleration of the integration of the Republic of Croatia into complex processes within the single system of intellectual property in Europe. And that's all very well, excellent SDP will support this bill. And the question is, what does the word mean? Why didn't we get close enough? What we're still coughing at now is the question of whether again over the year, the two of us will come to the Parliament again, the Law on Topography of Semi-Hungarian Products, the Law on the Mark, the Law on patents, etc. to fully bring this into line with the acquis of the European Union. As we have seen in part, the reason for the passing of these laws was even slightly bizarre, therefore, errors in copying. And unfortunately this law needs to be agreed, improved, adopted, updated. However, they are asked why, when laws are already passed under the EU, when they are adopted by haste procedures, why not fully aligned or at least to reveal the secret in what we are still coughing about. Moreover, this law is unfortunately due to the state of the economy and the electronic industry which is, in fact, with exceptions, rare exceptions such as "Erikson", "Nikola Tesla" or some other and with these of our colleges FER etc. All this is almost non-existent and the fact is that this law protects companies that will export their products to the Republic of Croatia and hopes that experts in more numbers and entrepreneurs who will see their chances in the market and in the favours of this law will also be established in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27981	Thank you. HNS club Mr. Representative Zeljko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27982	Dear Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the third law in the field of intellectual property that we are discussing today, the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semiconducts, was passed again in 2003 and its amendments in 2007. Topography as a representation of the three-dimensional layout of layers of isolation and semi-conductive material in semi-conductive products intended for the performance of a specific electronic function can in any way be protected as intellectual property. The basic condition of topography protection is its originality, meaning that it is the result of its own intellectual efforts and that it is not common in the semiconductor industry. Topography of semiconductor products is protected for the reason that the development of new semiconductor products, especially the reduction of their dimensions, requires a lot of money, knowledge and many years of work, while copying once developed topography is very simple and cheap. The protected topography shall ensure, during a limited period of time, that its owner has the exclusive right to prohibit or authorise the multiplication of topography and to import, sell and other placing on the market of topography or semi-manufacturing product produced by its use, as well as the product in which the semi-conductive product containing protected topography is incorporated. The topography protection procedure in Croatia shall be carried out in accordance with the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semi-Horizonal Products and the Regulations on the Protection of Topography of Semi-Horizonal Products on the basis of the application submitted. The application shall contain information on topography and drafts or photographs of plans or individual layers of semiconductor products. The applicant of the application of topography may designate some of the information required from the application as a business secret in which these parts will not be made available to the public except for the needs of a possible judicial dispute. The rights of the protected topography holder shall cease to apply within 10 years of the end of the calendar year in which the topography began for the first time commercially to be used anywhere in the world, i.e. from the end of the calendar year in which a regular registration application was submitted, depending on which time has taken place earlier. According to the promoters, these current amendments will fully bring our legislation in the area of the right to protect the topography of semiconductor products with the current legal regulation of the European Union, and therefore the Croatian People's Party club will also support the proposed amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27983	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27984	Final proposal of the Act amending the Law on Topography Protection, Half-ductive Products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 268. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the Protection of Topography, Half-Leading Products. Please engage and vote and see if the expected light turns on. The result? This law of P.Z.E. Number 268 was accepted with most votes. 111 votes for and 1 abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27985	We are going to the next item - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on trade marks, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 269 The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislative Affairs, European Integration, Economy, Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. State Secretary Miljenko Pavlakovic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27986	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here's the last change and addition in the world of series that relates to the right of intellectual property. The amendment and addition of the Mark Act, which is proposed, is also in line with the negotiating positions of the Republic of Croatia in Chapter 7 - Intellectual Property Rights, which I have already said was a closed chapter in the 12th month of the past year. In particular, the amendments relate firstly to fully aligning ourselves with the absolute reasons for refusing to register stamps and, according to the European Commission's directives on the uniformisation of the rights of all the rules of the Member States relating to the trade marks as a reason for refusing to register. He knows a situation in which the sign does not have any diverse character in relation to the products or services for which registration is requested. This rightly simplifies the differences in practice that define the degree of diversity that are fully refused to register necessary for the trade mark. Then also for the introduction of agent stamps as a new relevant reason for refusing to register stamps and evil faith as a new reason on which the declaration of zero stamps may be sought. The agent’s stamp is intended as a relative reason for refusing to register the trade mark in the Council of the European Commission on the Community trade mark, and such obligation arises from Article 6 of the Paris Convention for the Protection of Intellectual Property, which is also the Republic of Croatia’s Contracting Party. As a particular relative reason, the situation when stamps are filed in bad faith is regulated. In accordance with the provisions of the Community trade mark Regulation on that basis, it is not possible to object to the registration of the trade mark, but is only possible to request that the registration of the trade mark be declared invalid. Also, according to the model of the patent law that we had previously needed was the introduction of a new institute towards international intellectual property contracts, which was primarily the Singapore Treaty on the Rights of the Marks, which entered into force in 1.1.2009, which is the signatories and the Republic of Croatia. In this case, the possibility of continuing the procedure despite missing the deadline and without any existing particular reason why the time-limit has been missed. The request for continuation of the procedure should be submitted within two months of the date of the failure. The introduction of this possibility of consequences is the fact that it is about obtaining private rights. Here, for now, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27987	Thank you. The committees? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, Mr Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27988	Honored Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, honored Mr. Director, colleagues and fellow MPs. So, most people actually talk about stamps think about stamps so that even today, even today, I have had several occasions for people to ask about what parliamentary representatives are discussing on such pervasive issues as printing some documents or so on. However, the fact is that under this law is one of the most important segments of intellectual property, because here the stamp is talked about what we actually mean by "trademark" or a protected sign. Market promotion is an integral part of the product life cycle and not even the best product, if there is no valid and good promotion, will not be well accepted on the market. Products issued by a larger established market name are known to have a greater advantage over the products of new markets of unknown producers at the beginning. As a result, signs that make it possible to identify goods on the market play an important role at today's level of market economy development. When it comes to the marking of goods so that consumers can choose the product that meets their wishes and needs and which they associate with a specific producer then, in the context of intellectual property or in the narrow context of industrial property rights, we are talking about stamps. The main assumption of the registration of the stamp is that it differs from each other, because they actually establish relations between business operators, consumers, traders and producers. The brand is a very strong and suitable instrument of advertising, propaganda and market processing. So the modern market is extremely much laid down in the construction of market identity or what we call popular brands. The brand is an integral element of this system, and today it is right to talk about the market value of brands that can be favoured by a particular producer or perhaps even make it difficult for them to perform on the market and that paradoxically but truly largely independent of the quality of the product itself. Evidence of this is also a worldwide spread of production and trade of counterfeit products or fakes. And recently, this type of intellectual property injury has become the primary business of a number of organised crime groups since opportunities for profit and potential penalties are largely disproportionate. Unlike classic crimes like drug trafficking, for example. Legally speaking, stamps are exclusively a right recognised as a sign for the distinction of a single economic operator's products and services. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mark Act also addresses certain legal issues relating to the differentiation of the trade mark because we also have such cases as to try to mask or copy logos of the listed market companies in this way by trying to deceive and potential buyers. This law also addresses the issue of registration, i.e. refusal of registration and the like. And all of this because the applicable Mark Act, even after the 2007 amendment, is not until the end but to a very high extent consistent with the acquis of the European Union. So we have a pattern again. The law was passed in 2005. Then it was changed in 2007, so now it's 2009. Again, in the description of the situation, i.e. the interpretation of the law, the following fact is that the proposed amendments of the Marking Act to the Croatian legal system in the field of trade marks are once again approaching European and international legal systems, which will result in the fulfilment of the necessary conditions for the integration of the Republic of Croatia into the single system of European intellectual property. So did I, as well as the Honorable Mr. Secretary of State, repeated one five, six times his opening lecture today at the presentation of this set of laws. Again, I wonder what that approach is, is that 99% approach, 87, 76. When we're going to have to go back to the end and make another approach to the Mark Act, that is, these logos, the signs. Why doesn't once access the harmonisation of a law do it suddenly and finally? So maybe it's because of the statistics, so we say to the European Union, here's how much we've harmonised the law, hoping they're not going to check quality, but quantity, so they're not going to negotiate. The fact is that we are really approaching this law, but we have not come close to the goal of harmonising the European acquis regarding intellectual property and Article 71. Stabilisation and Association Agreements. And I can only agree with Mr. Secretary of State that the new Marking Act is to an even greater extent provided for by entrepreneurship and market freedom as the basis of the economic structure of the Republic of Croatia as laid down in the provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And the SDP will support this law. We can even believe that the adoption of this law is in a way increasing and consumer protection due to the expected greater confidence in the established market brands that have even greater legal protection with this law, and we can also hope that the Government will be offered the Industrial Design Act, which we have also discussed and which we will accept for the necessary consideration of the National Design Strategy. So here are the designers then Croatians have a job to design and stamps or logos of these brands and brands all assuming that we will get out of the crisis or recession when we agree in fact what state we are in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27989	Thank you. On behalf of the CNS, Mr. Representative Zeljko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27990	Dear Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. A set of laws in the field of intellectual property adopted in 2003 included the Mark Act, and some of its changes took place in 2007. Here, today is the last fifth law in the field of intellectual property rights we're discussing and we're going to adopt tomorrow. We'll also agree that five laws from one cabinet are really enough for one day. The brand is exclusively a right recognised as a sign for the distinction of one person's products or services from other persons in economic transport. The name, logo, emblem, label or other different characteristics of a product or service may be protected by a stamp. In most countries, it is obtained by registering on the basis of studies carried out by the relevant competent authorities, and with us it is the State Institute for Intellectual Property. The basic conditions I know must satisfy to become a brand are that it is different and that it is not similar to an earlier mark. The brand provides the owner with the exclusive right to place on the market products or services marked with it. The trade mark protection is an effective market tool for manufacturers and service providers to protect the funds they have invested in the promotion and marketing of their products or services. The protection of the creation of a sign, logo or label itself can represent an authorial work that is protected as copyright which protects the interest of the author or creator. According to the motions of these current amendments, our legislation in the field of protection of the Mark Act with the current legal legislation of the European Union will be fully harmonised. We will trust the promoter that this is indeed the case, so the Croatian People's Party Club will also support the proposed amendments and additions to the Mark Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27991	Thank you. Mr. Representative Kreso Filipović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27992	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are today almost all day discussing several legislative proposals that national legislation, in this case in the field of intellectual property, is in line with the acquis of the European Union. In particular, under the Stabilisation and Association Process of the European Union, and in accordance with Article 71 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to developing a legal framework that will guarantee the level of protection of intellectual property, similar to that existing in the European Union. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. Also, in line with the negotiating positions of the Republic of Croatia for Chapter 7 – The right to intellectual property, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to remove the remaining differences with the Union acquis in the area of trade marks in the first quarter of 2009. For this very reason, we are also discussing the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mark Act, which is governed by the legal area of the trade mark to the Republic of Croatia under the regulations of the trade mark and by relevant international agreements which have been joined by the Republic of Croatia. The Mark Act in the Republic of Croatia was passed in 2003 and has been applicable since 1 January 2004. What I find important to emphasise is the fact that in the second half of 2007 the Croatian Parliament adopted amendments and additions to the Mark Act, which is the Croatian legislative framework from this area to a very high extent in line with the legal acquis of the European Union. By applying the Mark Act with the usual definition of basic concepts, it shall, on its basis, regulate the way in which the trade mark is acquired, its effects and its use, the registration and registration procedure, the amendments to the trade mark, etc., and so on other similar details. I will try only in the shortest lines to clarify the concept of the stamp and its meaning, and we heard it just before and from a colleague who spoke in front of the Croatian People's Party club. Therefore, the mark is exclusively a right to a particular sign such as the name, logo, emblem, label or any other feature that serves to distinguish the products or services of one person from other persons in economic transport. In most countries, the brand is obtained by registration on the basis of an earlier examination by the relevant competent authority, and in the Republic of Croatia this competent authority is the State Intellectual Property Institute. The basic preconditions that a character must fulfil to be protected as a mark is its ability to display in a graphic form such as words, drawings, letters, figures, etc. and that it is different, i.e. by its appearance and expression, it enables the consumer to distinguish the products and services of one entrepreneur from the same or similar products and services of another entrepreneur. The mark could not be registered and must not be registered if it is similar to one of the previously registered stamps. Finally, brand protection is an effective market tool for manufacturers and service providers to protect the funds invested for the promotion and marketing of their products and services. Despite the high level of compliance of the applicable Mark Act, certain segments of the law that need to be amended are further laid down as part of the pre-accession negotiations in order for the Republic of Croatia to have the possibility at the time of accession of the European Union to provide the same degree of protection of the right of trade marks as all other members of the European Union. It is important to stress that in October 2008, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a report on the fulfilment of the obligations set out in Chapter 7 – The Law of Intellectual Property of the State Institute for Intellectual Property, which the Republic of Croatia has also committed, and, in accordance with the recommendations of the European Commission, to amend the Mark Act further. I stress this fact because, on the basis of the above mentioned report, the European Union provisionally closed Chapter 7 of the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Of course, the obligation of additional coordination remains. For this very reason, it is necessary to adopt the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mark Act which will also result in Croatia's legislation in the field of trade mark law being fully in line with European legislation in the same area. That's exactly why I will personally support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27993	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Zdenko Franić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27994	Dear colleague, you said this law would fully protect the rights of entrepreneurs from the European Union, but I would only once again read the part relating to the assessment of the consequences that will arise by passing the law. The proposed harmonisation of the rules of the Croatian legal system in the field of trade marks is once again approaching the European and international legal systems, resulting in the fulfilment of the necessary conditions for the integration of the Republic of Croatia into complex processes within the existing intellectual property system. So we're getting closer, we're not getting close. And perhaps, true God, perhaps I've misunderstood, perhaps by the total approach of this law we're approaching in an intellectual property segment or we're approaching only in the section of the Mark Act, it's really not clear to me, and these expressions that are in the assessment of the situation in all these six laws are a little ambiguous. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27995	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27996	Thank you very much, dear colleague. So here in my presentation, I said that our legislation is fully in line with the European Union rules, but your conclusion on your presentation on behalf of the SDP Club was, or was, the question to the applicant to state how much more consistent it is when it comes to these laws. It is my opinion that every law, meaning every legal matter and so on, the legal matter or regulation of the European Union are a living body, and they are, in the meantime, changing so that in the future, many of the laws that we have adopted here in the Croatian Parliament will probably require further amendments and additions to comply with the current directives or legal regulations of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27997	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27998	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I support the adoption of this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mark Act. And as it has been pointed out more than once here that the law has already been passed far away in 2003, it began to apply in early 2004, it changed in 2007, and here we are again before the changes. Any changes to the law cost the state. These last changes in 2007 were good changes and they were known even for these things that are now being incorporated into the law. Thus, there is often a question why it is not a long period, so it is not some adjustment. Sometimes it's hard with some things that regulate, the law when it regulates certain matter quickly cross... so some changes are needed which are purely one transitional period between the existing situation and a new revolutionary state are significantly different from the existing one. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But here it was neither harmful to those addressees nor interested. However, it had already been then, it would have been good to ensure by then a full one adjustment because there was no reason not to include these known elements in these changes that took place in 2007. It's hard to figure out why it didn't happen, even though some laws know perfectly why it happened. Let's say, we have to work, we know exactly, here's the bill that we had before but also some other similar laws where the state was supposed to invest in some material assets that were out of date and that had to change. Let's say the inscriptions. Strong money was spent and dumped and then started to change because it did not meet European standards. So it's deliberate and deliberate. But now it's not the subject here of this debate investigation and the debate about it. Therefore, there was no reason to reject these so important elements, therefore indifference as a reason to refuse registration for the stamp or the agent's stamp as a relative reason for refusing to register the stamp, or for predicting the possibility of continuing the procedure. And especially this is important what it was meant to do, although it is simple in the law, and when it is not said, it is considered almost and particularly legally incorporated because the bad intention spoils everything. Thus, the possibility is predicted, now said it, of declaring a void mark lodged in evil faith. It seems to me that this is the provision of Article 8. It is good that there is in the law in such a visible way and pointed out, however, it should not be stopped because one self-aware state does not want anyone to play with it and falsely whether to report or to another person. Here, it looks like the state's attorney's office has already googled up the false charges, and then few of these are guilty, few of them, and so the public doesn't perceive at all who's registered for anything and so on. It used to differ, and false reporting was a serious act that was certainly being pursued, persecuted, and judged. Also, here also now this provision of Article 8. If someone's doing it in a bad way, then it's a fraud and it's a felony. So perhaps here, too, it was necessary to look at what were the criminal provisions and to prevent a criminal punishment far greater because this is the greatest offense. Everyone else can make a mistake, but acting in bad faith means first and foremost cheating on the state, and one serious state does not allow it. After all, those honest-minded citizens cannot take it seriously if it tolerates such actions. Then a growing number of people start acting alike. It is simply a spiral that then embraces and procedures and healthy bodies and healthy minds. Therefore, I think that this needs to be put to an end vigorously and the state needs to show it its seriousness and will not tolerate the playfulness and abuse of it, but it also obliges the state of bogey to treat the citizen equally, in this particular case to the one who reports the stamp. Now, I support the adoption of this bill, but once again this may not apply to these proposings, but in general, let's think about it, we are at the door of the European Union, so that these adjustments do not go letter by letter article by article, because it only costs the Republic of Croatia a lot of money. Therefore, let us also act economically in law making. The principle of economics all comes in handy, especially now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u27999	We need to get close, not close, but crash immediately. Finish reviewing the secretary of state. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28000	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I think I will try to be brief in response to these dilemmas or trilems that exist. With these amendments and additions to the Marking Act, Croatia is 100% in line with the European Union. It is not about any economic cost or additional harmonisation that was not necessary. Clearly, the Republic of Croatia, which is not yet a member of the European Union, needs to be amended by amending the Directive and its legislation, which will certainly not be the case at the time when the Republic of Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union, then, without amending the law, we will assume the European Union directives. While we're not doing this, we're going this way to change and supplement legislation. That is why it took us to change in 2007 and what is visible and what you know is that this chapter as well as the chapter at those earlier points when we talk about a set of laws regarding intellectual property rights was closed on 19 December 2008. so I think enough and no greater proof than that should be, that Croatia has aligned itself with the European Union's gains, given that the chapter is closed, and not only is it closed, it is one of the chapters where we received the most commendation in the way we operate with intellectual property rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28001	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28002	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on trade marks, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 269. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal for amendments to the Mark Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law has been passed by most votes. 107 votes for and 1 abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28003	We move to the next point - Final proposal of the Law on Professional Education, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 208 The debate was conducted by the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, Education, Science and Culture, legislation, economy, development and reconstruction, European integration. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee for Legislatives Ivanka Roksandić, Ljubica Lukačić and joint representatives and MPs Marija Lugarić and Gvosedn Flego. State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports Želimir Janjic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28004	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. Here we are facing the Final Proposal of the Law on Professional Education and there is every opportunity that this law could be passed in this High House in high agreement, and perhaps by consensus of all of you sitting here. This law, which was first passed so far, has not been passed by the Law of Professional Education. We consider this segment extremely important, and of the 186,000 students we have in high schools 75% are members of the vocational education programme. Professional education has been arranged so far by the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools and by the crafts of the Law on crafts. This law is based on some of our strategic documents we've brought before. First of all, it is a strategy for the development of vocational education in the Republic of Croatia and this is a plan for the development of education and education systems from 2005 to 2010. Of course, another very important document that you brought to the Croatian Parliament last June 21st is the National Programme for the Introduction of Mandatory Secondary Education, which highlights the phasing out and the introduction of incentive measures for all students who finish primary school to get into high school, not to get out of the system and certainly get their first qualification, and thus also the chance on the labour market to work and to have income and not be socially excluded. This law is in line with the provision of Article 12. The Treaty establishing the European Community with the principle of non-discrimination. Therefore, children of citizens of the Member States of the European Union have the right to vocational education as well as Croatian citizens and are enrolled in institutions for vocational education in the Republic of Croatia under the same conditions as Croatian citizens. Of course, this provision will start to apply when the Republic of Croatia becomes a member of the European Union. The law defines the objectives of vocational education, including the acquisition of qualifications in the labour market, and for further education and lifelong learning, as well as ensuring the development of vocational education on the principles of accessibility and flexibility. The law on vocational education establishes mechanisms for harmonising vocational education with labour market needs. This is what we particularly want to highlight, and this coordination is carried out through the organisation of vocational education, through the education sectors. The Minister responsible for Education shall establish sectoral councils as bodies that professionally, competently and permanently present the labour market to be satisfied. These aren't their only assignments. I'll mention some other assignments later. But let me remind you in our first reading we have suggested that the sectoral council be appointed by the competent ministries. In all your discussions during the first reading, you said that it would be better to do so by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports as responsible for all education, so we accepted that remark, and it was heard on the Economic Social Council when we discussed this law with our social partners. I'll just visit you for a little while. Of course, we didn't make it up. Sectoral councils exist in many Western European countries, so let me remind you we are in Great Britain there are 25 professional sectoral councils. Each of these sectoral councils has about 100 permanent employees. In the Netherlands, 12 professional sectoral councils, Spain 26, Estonia 16, Romania 23, in Canada are 23 sectoral councils. Of course it costs if they're a professional sector council. They are not professional with us, so they will be appointed to a proposal from the competent ministries but by the parent ministry. This law also defines the programming procedure for educated programmes, and that procedure prescribes the creation of a standard of interest which determines the jobs and activities within these operations, and competences necessary to carry out them. In the second step, a standard of professional qualification is developed which, by the name of qualification, prescribes a level, and the scope of the qualification in credit points. This also introduces credit points for the first time to the middle level of education, ensuring easier horizontal and vertical passivity as well as recognition of qualifications beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to this, vocational education is coordinated with the future Croatian qualification framework, which has already adopted the basics. The ongoing step, programming and development of professional curricula and respect for this programming process guarantees the student the acquisition of relevant competences with which it can be easily included in the labour market and higher education. The law prescribes the harmonisation of standards of occupation, standards of professional qualifications and professional curricula with labour market needs as a rule every 5 years. There may have been a little bit of a doubt here when we say as a rule every five years, that means it could be before, and there have been some proposals to be every three years, but if we were to say as a rule every three years, then that could mean that that deadline could be missed, so it would be 5 years. Of course, we're going to make sure that this is actually just a framework, but that this coordination is as common as possible, that is, as the labour market and technology needs put it. The law also introduces a quality assurance system for vocational education which obliges schools and other institutions carrying out vocational education to carry out self-valuation and external evaluation. In the function of self-evaluation, the school is obliged to set up a 7-member quality commission, 4 of which is from the teachers and professional associates in the school itself, one as a representative of parents, one as a representative of students and one as a representative of stakeholders on the basis of a proposal from the founder. This expert body will work as instructed by the Professional Education Agency, of course. The law also provides for the establishment of a Council on Professional Education. The Council consists of 17 members, appointed by the minister for 5 years. The Education Council proposes education sectors, harmonizes the work of all stakeholders in the field of vocational education, initiates initiatives to adopt new or change existing and complement existing girls, proposes measures and activities and strategies for the development of vocational education. In the first reading, 18 members of the Professional Education Council were proposed, but since the first reading we have done one correction so now we have 17 members of the council, so an odd number. It is not necessary to be an odd number, but we have coordinated this in cooperation with the social partners, on the Economic and Social Council, to be a parity number of those representing the economy, one from the Croatian Employers' Association, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and three as representatives of the trade union. Other from the order of other stakeholders and institutions themselves, etc. The law defines the structure and the work of the Professional Education Agency as defined in the Agency's founding regulation, but here jobs are expanded for the simple reason why we have pre-accession IPA programmes. They have accepted these tasks as one of the executive units, and of course we need to put that into the description of their jobs now, so we have done so. The law prescribes conditions for enrolment of students and other students in secondary vocational education. The law also prescribes the obligation to negotiate the implementation of practical teaching and professional practice with employers, the rights and obligations of each Contracting Party and the level of the student's reward for the implementation of practical teaching. Here we have, of course, introduced on your proposal the obligation of the school as an institution which is also involved in the negotiation of professional practice among employers together with parents, i.e. with students. In accordance with this law, institutions conducting vocational education can organise centres of new technologies, with the aim of carrying out practical teaching or part of practical teaching and training of appropriate professions. A network of new technologies centres and associated vocational education institutions brings the ministry responsible for education on a proposal from the Professional Education Agency. We already have 16 in the Republic of Croatia, but normatively nowhere has been arranged, these are the centres of new technologies in which one part of the course can be held, but not in every school. Not all schools are equipped with such expensive and modern equipment, so for these reasons, we will implement teaching in these centres for all those who in this mini region are gravitating at the school where the new technology centre is located. The law gives the possibility to continue education to a student who, for more than two years, for legitimate reasons, interrupted education, and in the meantime changed into a girl. So far, this has been quite problematic, and there has been a difference of exams, etc. Here we open up such an opportunity for the benefit of the recipient himself. The law prescribes a way to determine the network of girls and networks of institutions for vocational education and in some way corresponds to the law on primary school education and to the obligation of founders to establish a network of programs and a network of schools within a year. In the end, allow, honourable MPs and MPs, to especially point out that everything you said in the debate in the first reading we accepted most of it. Thank you for these suggestions, because this has significantly improved this Final Proposal for the Law on Professional Education. I would also like to thank all the clubs that supported this law in the first reading, you who have submitted amendments that we will consider. I will not now show myself to them, since one of these amendments will surely be accepted as you have stated, and one part perhaps in a slightly altered form, and then when the vote is very precise in that determination. And in the end, we made a promise. That was on your proposal. I will also say here exactly, on the proposal of the representative of the Iron Flege and on the proposal of Representative Frana Matušić, who suggested that we begin our work on preparing the proposal of the Law on Art Education. I would like to inform you, while thanking you, that we have appointed a committee that has already held one session and which has received its assignments. They've started working, and we're hoping that this year we'll prepare this law and bring it here before you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28005	So more tambourine schools. And for the benches. The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, legislation, the economy, development and reconstruction, European integration. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28006	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, guests from the Agency for Professional Education and Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I will begin by thanking this news to our secretary of state that the new Law on Art Education is also in the works because the club of HDZ representatives after reading, the first reading of this professional law, proposed to be on the initiative and supported the initiative of colleagues Matusic and colleagues from Flega to really approach the creation of a specific Law on Art Education. And now something about the vocational education that we discussed as a club in this second reading with the proposed changes and these supplements that came from the first reading. It is very important that here is the vocational education after years and attempts finally received one of their basic laws. It is good that all the participants in the first debate, and I want this specifically pointed out here, in the first reading that they agreed that the law is really good, that it is modern, that it is oriented towards learning outcomes which is very important, that it assumes horizontal and vertical passing, that it speaks of modularity. It is very important that the law provides for a network of programs, not just a network of schools. That's very significant. This is a very important law. I would say not only in the education system, but colleagues and colleagues in the development and promotion of the economy. And according to the fact that the development of the economy is certain, it is also necessary to have an educated and trained workforce. This law is therefore good as it distinguishes both formal, informal and informative education. It is also an important part of the proposed law to regulate the partnership, so inclusion of all social partners in the development and maintenance of vocational education. It is very important that you have also said as proposings, as the Ministry of Education that not only the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports worked on this law, but also that they participated as partners as stakeholders for themselves and the Ministry of Economy and the Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and Social Partners, trade unions, Croatian Employers' Association. It was therefore a good foundation already in the drafting of this law, so that the law would achieve what was expected of it, and I can say a really good proposal for future vocational education. He will believe to be the cornerstone of vocational education, except for this law which will, above all, frame and assume some of the settings that will need to be changed in the very system of education in practice, be a good incentive to move forward in further reform of this education. The government also set up an Professional Education Agency in 2005 which had its specific tasks. I will not repeat now what these were tasks, but I believe that one of the basic tasks was precisely the formation and participation in the making of this law, then redefining above all the educational structural sectors, interests in sectors, the definition of output knowledge, skills and competences that are very important for vocational education and, above all, the creation of a modern and open curricula for each profession. Here, it is good that the law provides for them to form as you have mentioned state secretaries, sectoral councils that have a significant task and take care of the entire vocational education. It is good that you have predicted inclusion, this I did in the first reading explicitly noted, regional and regional (local) self-government as the founder who will be involved in providing places for practical teaching, because so far the participants have been turned, especially in craft professions, craft chamber and unfortunately often parents and they have been left to themselves in finding a place for professional practice. Here we now have a provision under which indeed local or regional self-government as founder of secondary schools for the time being in Croatia must be involved in solving this problem. It is also good, though it has sometimes been indicated in the discussions, it is good to establish and verify acquired knowledge somewhere in the 2nd year for students or students, and thus will be checked for the work of the employer, the person who gives it here and whose student goes to practical teaching. So they're going to be checked in some way and their training and what they're giving. The law provides for cash compensation at the level of the net salary paid in the Republic of Croatia in a certain percentage for the participants during the practical course according to the time, as provided for by law, carried out in practice, which is certainly good. These days we've heard a series of debates about whether it's good or not. I, colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the HDZ Club, think that she was well, offered the personal experience I had, and I considered it with my colleagues at the club, in one of those professional schools that was doing school work practice, I would say a little bit of making money and having a certain profit from a school workshop that she used primarily for teaching aids, for equipment, for modernising schools, but also rewarding students. It was a great incentive for the students to get involved. And just by predicting this here, we've made it possible for the students to feel more and more useful, but it's also given them one motivational support to get as much involved as possible. So thank you for accepting another initiative that, in addition to what is provided for in the law, students can receive as a reward, that this award is not limited, but because of motivation, students can be rewarded by employers and by additional financial means. A special place, you've finally said, are centres for new technologies or centres of excellence. There are 16 of them in Croatia. I know how they work, and for now I think there may be plenty of them in these situations, but she would be inclined to actually exist in all our counties and in all the major cities. We said we advocated a network of programs, so those centres in that network of programs play a very big role. So we think that we should further strengthen the equipment of these and the establishment of these centres of excellence, the centres for new technologies. We also welcome the problem. This law also established frameworks for teacher-related issues, professional teachers whose lack is large. In fact, every year more and more vocational schools are located in a new position, unfortunately, that the lack of professional staff is large. It is therefore good that here a special place and special attention has been paid to this law and to professional teachers. And finally, I hope once again with this future Art Education Act and this law that it will experience its good application, that it is a good step to develop a vocational education which is certainly the foundation of the economic development of the Republic of Croatia. Here is also in the second reading as the final proposal, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, will support this Law on Professional Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28007	Thank you. HSS representative's club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28008	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates, MPs and MPs. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will support the adoption of the Law on Professional Education and we believe that this law comes at the right time to the Croatian Parliament. In fact, Croatia is located before entering the European Union but is already facing growing competition today, so a rapid adjustment is needed that is not possible without knowledge, which the current system of vocational education does not give to a sufficient extent. Production interests are called simply for by the staff, but there is no motivation among young people to choose them, so there is a need to change the attitude towards work and learning. Not even the scholarships provided by the Chamber of Commerce, as well as many counties for crafts and professions did not interest young people enough to opt for these occupations, which are mostly in most counties deficited. In the last 12 years, the Croatian Chamber of crafts has provided scientific places for 82300 scientists per year and class. These scientists have achieved practice in craft workshops that have made their space, equipment, and professional teachers available to them. Over 163 million hours of work have been carried out by scientists and professional teachers in those 12 years. All licensed workshops are required to pay compensation to scientists, so if we take that minimum price of four kuna hours as defined by the procurement contract, that is, for craftsmen over the last 12 years was the cost or would say investment of over 652 million kuna. Over the past 12 years, 12158 candidates have passed the professional training exam and 7697 masters' master exams. It is precisely because of the great engagement of the Chamber of crafts and the provision of training for young people for deficiting, crafts and professional professions that we believe it is necessary for the Ministry of Science and Education to respect the Chamber of Commerce as a partner and that it is necessary to involve the Chamber more strongly in the process of making decisions concerning vocational education. This is also an important law because it covers 75% of all high school students, more specifically 130,000 of them. The law aims to bring education into line with the economy and labour market needs. This law regulates the specific needs of vocational education. It regulates training and training of students, lifelong education as well as issues related to practical teaching and training. The Agency for Professional Education by adopting this law must accept the work for which it was established, and the Council for Professional Education is also established, and standards of occupation will be adopted through the Professional Council. In the case of exercise and practice in employers, the law provides for the right to compensation and this monthly fee for first-class students of 10% or 500 kuna. For the second grade 20% average salary or thousand kuna, and for the third and fourth grade 25% average salary or 1250 kuna. In the HSS, we believe that this is an extremely good concept, but we also find it difficult to realise it especially now that we are in a financial crisis, so we should consider establishing a fund that would help employers in the crisis, and in this regard also in fulfilling their obligations to students. We also believe that in small areas this Institute of Rewards will be prescribed Article 31 will be more difficult to achieve and that employers will avoid the conclusion of a contract, i.e. taking scientists will be an additional problem for the implementation of this whole project. The law does not show whether or not schools that have their own workshops, where practice is carried out, will have to enter into agreements with students and pay them compensation, so I would ask the Secretary of State to explain the part. We would also like to draw attention to Article 26, which mentions the pedagogical competences of the mentor, but is not defined what competences these are and how they can be acquired. It must be acknowledged that mentors today generally have professional competences, which is important for practical teaching. But many of them do not have formally passed pedagogical subjects, so this calls into question the possibility of further practical teaching if it is not clearly defined in the law as pedagogical competences and within what time mentors must acquire them from the very day of the law. We also propose to include, in Article 14(1), paragraph 6 and Article 16(4) concerning the Council on Professional Education and Sectoral Councils as a member of the Council a representative of the roof national Association of Persons with Disabilities. When it comes to vocational education, the need to reduce the burden on students of professional professions should be highlighted. Last year, a very interesting event called the right of students of vocational schools took place. The meeting was also attended by the Ombudsman for children who spoke with students of various professional professions, and they had just been through the debate to warn of the great burdens and problems they faced and I believe that their thinking should indeed be taken seriously and taken care of when this law will be implemented and the sublegal acts being made. In fact, overall school obligations seem to be the most burdened students of medical schools. In addition to having 18 items, parallel practice and teaching occasionally leads to daily burden on students from 10 hours. Students living outside the city don't make it to their home between practice and teaching, so if they have a practice of 7 to 11 hours, and classes from 14 to 19.30 happen three times a week outside the house spend 15 hours. If there was room for learning, rest, and nutrition at school, the burden would certainly be easier for them, so here is a proposal for a resolution ministry. Students of catering programs are more satisfied than those who attend medical school. They think they're less burdened than they are. However, they feel that learning and theory of practice would work better if theoretical teaching and practice were completely separated and exchanged from week to week. Thus, they would say, achieve a continuity that would facilitate learning, and their professional practice would have better effects at that time. They find it extremely important that employers in practice enable them to acquire skills that make up their profession for which a student has to fight for himself sometimes, but in general they can count on the support of professional school teachers. For their work in general, students of catering programs receive compensation. Problems with relationships with employers are the most burdensome of future hairdressers. Most of them, because of the pressure of employers, do more hours of practice than mandatory, for example 1000 instead of 750. They often work during the holidays and almost all summer without compensation mainly for cleaning and cleaning and rarely get a chance to learn their trade in the hairdressing salon. They need to find practice on their own, and in regulating relationships with employers, school doesn't help them. As a problem, the students also have to get their own professional hairdressers, haircut dolls, and the rest, which had no financial burden. Programme participants in construction are much more satisfied with the organisation of teaching in which classes and practices are changed per week, the conditions in practice, as they are secured, receive compensation, and also have a good chance of finding employment immediately after school is finished. The students of the technical school complained that the introduction of state graduates was tailored to the high school programme as a condition for access to higher education certainly puts them in a rather difficult situation. They are required to take on regular duties and prepare the final exam for the vocational school in parallel with the high school programme in Croatian, mathematics and foreign language, i.e. other subjects. They are considered automatically disqualifying compared to those who attended high school. They believe they are ready for many technical colleges by high school students, as they say confirmed in the results of previous generations of technical school students, but now their approach to the university will be difficult and should certainly be considered. Medical school students also warn that high school students are somehow in a better position by introducing a state degree. Medical school students wonder how they're going to pass state high school math when they don't have math at all in their high school. They also believe that it is absurd that without a state degree they cannot enroll in higher education for more nurses, and without higher education they can only be nurses or carers. In the HSS, we believe that this debate between students of different vocational education is very welcome because it is a good indicator of what we need to change this moment so that students can be disbursed, to modernise their educational programmes, to improve working conditions, but also to in some way bring the needs of the economy into line with the education of students, i.e. so that education can plan, take care of the specificities of individual professions. We believe that the additional problem and lack of space for theoretical and practical teaching for students of vocational schools is therefore we in the HSS are committed to building new crafts, technical and vocational schools into the priority of this government and we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28009	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric, Club of Representatives of the SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28010	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. I would like to start by saying that the SDP Representatives Club will support the adoption of this law as we have always supported all those legal solutions that are good, which are too important in education because if we want to make the slightest change that really makes some difference, it is a change that is more than one political term of more than 4 years. And all that we bring about education we must count on that our real application and the real effects we will be able to see only at the earliest in 15 years, so we need to come up with really well-designed measures in education and then, at a professional consensus, have politically otherwise infamously failed as was the case with most things so far. In that sense, this law is good, for us from the SDP is particularly glad that it adopted, not only in terms, but also in substance some of the things that we have failedly tried to convince the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Here, even last summer when we passed the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary school, such as the network of curicula, recognition of informal and formal learning, curical programming and other things. We would also like to highlight the importance of vocational education, not only from the fact that almost 75% of pupils and pupils go to this secondary vocational education, but also because today in the Republic of Croatia 41% of the population has completed primary school or less than primary school and those who are working age are still, I say, customers for this sector of secondary primary vocational education and I think that in some ways we should include them. On this occasion, we want to highlight the importance of integrated integrated integrated solutions, so to speak of the education system. In fact, we have witnessed many times, many times, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, and many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, have, many, many, many, many, many, have seen in, many, many, in the Croatian families, in the Croatian families. We don't have to mention examples of pedagogical standards or some law solutions from last summer to bring the school curricula by the end of the 9th month, so we still can't bring it because we didn't bring it national even though it all reads in the law. And it's important that somewhere here and here we agree that this Law on Professional Education, however good it is, it only partially solves an important and large system, but still only one part of the system. And in that, in some ways, is the biggest grudge, so to speak, the greatest flaw associated with this law. At global level, it can be described by the fact that there is no big picture, so to speak. We may have a document called the 2005 and 2010 Strategic Plan, but at a concrete level we do not have defined solutions. A few examples. In the last two or three years, we have heard several announcements that basic education will be extended to this part of high school, which is directly related to this law. First in 2007 the minister said in the spring, as of 9 month 2007, the entire high school will be mandatory. Then it gave up because of course it was unrealistic. Then, at the 11th month, a draft national framework curricula was presented where it was written that high school would be mandatory for 2 years. And last week, high school was announced mandatory for a minimum duration of 3 years. And as long as we don't know in which way we're going to extend compulsory education, but at least now we know that we're going to extend it, we can't, I can't say, know reliably what's going to happen with the segment of secondary vocational education. Another example is the concept of curiculum, i.e. notional definitions. I'm glad that, and we all are glad that we finally accepted what we are, I repeat, as representatives and MPs from the SDP tried to put unsuccessfully, unfortunately, this summer as an official state policy, but we still don't have defined key concepts that we should know before we fill them with content. In this law, the national curricula is defined in one way, the national curricula in the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools in another way, in the national framework curricula is defined in a third way. And until we know these things we're going to have problems with vocational education. Already mentioned the Law on Raising and Education in elementary and high school, some things are dealt with in one way, this law solves in another way. I mean, first of all, the part about programming. The state prom, another example, will take place in secondary vocational schools, will not be held in secondary vocational schools. It can be done, but those who take it must go to extra school so that they can master it. We still don't really know what kind of implications they're gonna have for kids who are going to high school right now. Because I hope you'll agree that if someone has to take the state's graduation as a condition for enrolment in college he can't give him a condition for mastering the content to be an additional instruction in school, he has to master it in the regular program, especially if it's a requirement for passing towards higher education. These are just some examples of how insufficient definition and lack of this great picture can actually prevent all good intentions and all that we agree on in this law. Something more specific that applies to this law itself, or to the very part of vocational education. Defining the qualification framework, it has been said that this is the basis for harmonising with the European Union. We would like to point out that he is unusually important for labour mobility and for the participation of our citizens in the EU countries' labour markets tomorrow, but contrary to what counterpart Petir said earlier, we are very late in this. Not that this law came at a good time we're very late. We expect within a year or a few years to become a full member of the European Union and our children have not yet gone into an education system that can educate them for that market, and now we should, in fact, have at least the first generations able to go to the European Union market tomorrow with recognizable qualifications. Interestingly, Mr. Secretary of State initially said that these provisions of the law are in line with future provisions of the qualification framework. I find it very interesting how something can be coordinated with something future. It would be more logical if in some way we had defined the qualification framework then and based it actually dragged this very story out of the law. Secondly, the achievement of the objectives to be declared by this law. Personally, I like to say that one of the most relatively easy things in the world is to pass and change the law, especially a good law, but it won't help us in a situation where we don't have enough educated teachers, when we have too many unprofessional classes, when school workers and workshops are quite poorly equipped, even though something has been done in recent years, it should be said, when the textbooks for professional subjects generally don't have any commercial interest and print because they are small stories and our Law on textbooks doesn't recognise it as a sort of small story, and it doesn't give enough incentives because, especially after the last changes, the whole law has been defined almost exclusively commercial. It's hard until all these conditions are met to say it's okay, the law is great, and by tomorrow we'll be better and something concrete will happen. In order for everything to come together in practice, it is necessary to do much more in teaching teachers primarily and then to continue what is started with school equipment. Student practice. It's unusually important to protect children. We have too many times and each of us have witnessed that children in the professional practice that should actually be trained and equipped with skills and knowledge that they can start working tomorrow, to be able to do actually not do what is in the description of their curricula, and we feel that this legal text is really necessary, and in that sense we have also submitted some amendments to strengthen children in a way that allows the parent or child to break a contract with the employer if the employer does not meet the terms of the contract or to establish criminal provisions if the employer does not adhere to the law. We have criminal provisions for high school, but criminal provisions in the law for employers who take advantage of children do not have, and that is something to be arranged by amendment. And last in this section, harmonising with the needs of the labour market. This phrase harmonize with the needs of the war market has become quite a popular mantra to say so also when we talk about higher education here and here and that we have never actually seen what the capacities of our businessmen are to say what they need in five or ten years. We'll say ok this is a alignment with labour market needs but we don't really know what the labour market needs and, of course, it's not the only and exclusive responsibility of the Ministry of Education but I think we should also encourage sectoral chambers but also the Ministry of Economy and education to tell employers and especially small employers to include this staff policy in their business plans. In addition to amendments related to child protection, our representatives and MPs submitted amendments to the deadlines. My colleagues and colleagues, if we adopt this law tomorrow he will come into school in the school year 2014/2015, not before and as much as we have the understanding that some things want to be done in detail not quickly, etc. We have no understanding, for example, of the fact that the minister has a full year to bring in sublegal acts for other deadlines, or if that really is a priority to us, as it seems to me here and there is an agreement in parliament, I think these deadlines should be significantly shortened. And to conclude with the law. We're a lot late. We're usually late in this part of education. This has yet come to pass, but the law will remain only a set of good wishes if it does not go into its implementation at its speed and some action plan is not written or unwritten which will indeed implement the law's solution primarily what needs to be done, who should do so, within which deadlines and for which to have adequate finances in the state budget. If we, each year in the rebalancing of the state budget or by the Government's decision to redistribute the funds, download the money to equip classrooms, to perfect teachers, etc. A hundred good laws will not help us to be better and different in our classrooms and classrooms. And finally, let me say it again, we from the SDP are really going to support this law. We would love to adopt some of our amendments, but we would also like to warn that it is quite dangerous for me to say the situation for children as well as for the state of social development so that we can only get partial solutions from education. Most often these partial solutions are bad here is one of the better solutions, and that the big picture and that we actually want to get from the education system and where we want to go we still haven't defined. Without it, these good partial solutions have a great chance of collapse. I'd say our colleague Leko does it very often here in the Parliament, I know us. And in some situations, I think we need to be more careful, significantly more specific and significantly faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28011	Thank you. The club of representatives of the CNS Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28012	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We at the club of the Croatian People's Party will support this Final Proposal of the Law on Professional Education. I must begin by commending the promoter, because this Final Proposal for the Law on Professional Education and fully justified and logically, includes a number of remarks and proposals from the previous debate. The fact that for this Final Proposal of the Law on Professional Education we have a whole series of already adopted foundations, and this is the adopted strategy for the development of vocational education, the Action Plan for the implementation of the strategy is adopted, there is also the Agency for Professional Education. Furthermore, in the section where a national plan is mentioned involved for the accession of the European Union, it also mentions the objectives for 2009, which are the development objectives of the strategy, which include the development of standards of occupation, qualifications, curricula, which implies investing in equipment and professional training of vocational schools and teachers. Mostly when I talk about infrastructure, we agree that it is necessary and necessary when we talk about activities and those who need to carry out these activities we agree. The only thing we don't agree on is who will and when and how successful will it be? It's not just a problem, we're talking about vocational education here, it's a problem in all segments, it's a problem in all debates. Surely, here when we talk about vocational education which is quite sensitive, because it is directly related to the economy, and I believe that the fact will finally be accepted with concrete actions and measures of the Government of Croatia that the only economy or only one system that creates a new value, and in this system is directly involved and the vocational education that we are talking about today, is what can ensure some possibility of development, and certainly not the responsibilities with which we have reached 40 billion euros in total debt. Furthermore, a study of the labour market which is in any case to be commended has been established, the number of education sectors has been reduced from 33 to 14, a list of professions has been updated, sectoral councils have been established, the fact that we have the Law on secondary education, the Law on adult education, the Law on crafts. We could list it indefinitely, but in any case what we believe and believe, and I'm almost certain with everything I agree that a very high-quality foundation has been created for this Final Proposal of the Law on Professional Education. About how and how we will continue to implement this is a second issue and in previous discussions on behalf of clubs there have been several remarks and we can say a whole series of remarks from practice so far. There is no need for me to repeat this now, but I certainly have an obligation on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club to warn about something that did not seem to be done or, if it did, it seemed bad, and in this particular case we are talking about these preconditions for applying the final proposal of the Law on Professional Education. We in the Croatian People's Party Club have several objections about this legislative proposal. These comments are already covered by the amendments addressed. I hope that the Proposer will accept these proposals and the observations proposed to the amendments. In particular, Article 6 which speaks in its position 5. standards and the interest of professional qualifications shall be regularly aligned with the needs of the labour market as a rule every 5 years. We consider five years too long, especially today. If responsible, and I believe that we have enough elements and enough information that our economy has never been in a more difficult situation than today, that crisis times are right when it is planted. Professional education is definitely something to plant a new value with, one dynamic of economic coordination especially given that we do not have an industrial development strategy, we do not have it. We have cosmetics, and we don't really have a strategy that would be suitable for our capabilities, our natural potentials and our needs. We've got the wandering. That the adoption of such a strategy is extremely necessary and necessary is what we are convinced I agree all. And surely that strategy would solve a whole series of dilemmas that are tied up and in the future of this law. But at the same time, we think that this deadline is five years too long, and we think it should be shortened. The government has these opportunities, as it successfully seeks to end the law with its regulations with legal force. Therefore, there is also here if the final proposal has been written for 5 years, but in practice I believe that the government, at least in that segment with this tool that it often abuses, at least in that segment, will use it usefully, pragmaticly and at the moment it is needed. I've recently had one piece of information, and I believe the secretary of state has recently been in the Varazdin area, that he has the same information, which is that enrolment in high school, interest in enrolment in high school, has fallen 40%, 40% lower than the interest he once was. Why? For what? It's very simple. Agricultural policy shoots at our seams. I think it's the problems, but life's problems, the problems that have directly to do with this, in that fundamental part of this bill. Furthermore, in Article 20 it may be cosmetics. I also think of this in Article 20(2), which defines the number of students, which the institution for vocational education enrolls in the first class, is planned in accordance with the number of students, quite certainly, logically and necessary, who end basic education with the human resources of the institution, the needs of the economy and the free places for the implementation of the practical part of education. In purely psychological terms, I think that these needs of the economy should be highlighted more strongly, if anything else at least put first in a set of lists. It is difficult in the legislative proposal with a strict quite dry expression to emphasize what is necessary, so here I am through the debate simply stressing this need as one of the very important, and I can say the free and most important at this point. And already, colleague Lugaric mentioned the provisions set out in Article 42. At the Club of the Croatian People's Party, we also join in the comments made and we believe that paragraph 2 of the professional... in Article 6(4) of this Act, the Minister shall adopt by 31 December 2012, paragraph 3. 2013 [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I find it quite convenient these deadlines were defined on one side. And on the other hand, I think that the overall economic moment is ours, and trust me, the economy is extremely crying out for one system-based vocational education. I think these deadlines are too long and I think that these deadlines should definitely be shortened, because by the logic of these deadlines, this law can come in its full application only... Which is certainly something that doesn't satisfy us and something that isn't right and something definitely needs to be cut short. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether this will be cut short to the amendments, whether it will shorten later with, I repeat, the government's decisions on that after, but definitely these deadlines should also be adapted to the dynamics and development of the economic and dynamics of the entire economy of this country because vocational education is certainly one of the potentials of the future that we must use and that is why at the end of the day I am still discussing this law. And finally, we at the Croatian People's Party club will support this final bill, primarily for the reason that it needs to be applied urgently, with the more legislative framework and institutional infrastructure fully ready for the application of this law, with the need and reality of the overall economic situation, in particular the lack of the economic strategy of this country, which is one of the essential preconditions and for the application of this law, we do not have it, it is necessary, it is necessary. We hope that the government in that part will finally show its responsibility to the citizens of this country, and because of the incentives and everything else, and certainly that the application of this legislative proposal will be one of the useful infrastructure support for that economic development and the growth that our citizens expect, and ultimately something that we all have the right to do together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28013	Thank you. An individual debate. And before that, State Secretary Želimir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28014	Thank you very much, Vice President. Thank you, dear representatives of the clubs that you spoke on behalf of the clubs for supporting the adoption of this law. So let me just take a quick look at a few details you mentioned here. First of all, I am pleased that MP Roksandic stressed here that not only local self-government units are involved but also founders of this section when it comes to vocational education, when it comes to apprenticeship, that they are involved in this segment. Equally very interesting this proposal that we are thinking about centres of new technologies in all the districts, that it is actually being deployed and at this point we mainly have these centers in the centers of the county, but not all of them. So maybe it's not bad that we're developing in that direction, so we don't need any documents. Since we have a basis here, it will be possible to achieve it, but it would be very unserious of me to say within what time. I always have to run away from deadlines, but anyway, the proposal is extremely good. I'm glad Mrs. Roxandić also emphasized these so-called. controls that have been conducted for several years in our craftsmanship, so in their second class, and this practice has proved to be good. It is not common, it is rare, but in those students who see that there may be something special to ask if it is in the right program, etc., this practice has so far been good. I would like to refer to what the esteemed representative Petir said on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party's Club of Representatives. When it comes to the pedagogical competences that you mentioned here, we have defined them in fact as being even within the basic law, in the Law on education and education in primary and secondary schools, and so it is something that will be governed by the rules and how these competences will be achieved, and that will, of course, also apply to teachers in vocational schools, because in fact, it is all one system. And when it comes to Articles 14 and 16 when you talk about people with disabilities, we say about people with developmental difficulties, she has already made an effort to intervene with her amendment in this regard, so that the fact that you pointed out as a problem will no longer be a problem because this amendment is indeed acceptable. You also talked about the burden of our students in certain types of schools, and especially when it comes to that, you talk about vocational schools, technical schools, you talk about medical schools. There's only one correction. When it comes to medical schools, it's not true they don't have math. They have math, the truth God less. They have in 1st and 2nd grade two hours of math. I won't say that's enough, but math certainly do. And when you talk about their chances of continuing education as to how to enroll, believe that the difference is now as provided for in Article 82. Law on education and education, elementary and high school where the state graduation is scheduled for those students of four-year vocational schools who want to, because they don't have to if they don't want to continue education, they'll make their final work, defend it and get a job. But those who want to continue education, believe me, they're in a better position, all of them in order in technical schools than they were before. I'll remind you, so far, there are four-year vocational schools and there are high schools. Both of them had to pass their graduation, or another final exam, and afterwards appeared at high schools at the entrance exams. Both. Of course it was easier for high school students, and unlike them students of four - year vocational schools had to, since the entrance exams were what they were, they had to master some additional content. In what way? Or they came to larger centres, especially here in Zagreb, in Pucko open school for two weeks at a time when there is no teaching, to prepare for a entrance exam at a university. The two weeks paid for their stay in Zagreb, two weeks paid for the tuition they had to pay to the university and no one guaranteed that they would safely pass the admission exam. Unlike how it's been since 2010, and how it's going to be since 2010, so we provide these students with extra hours if they want everything they had to pay for, which is why they had to go somewhere else, to make at their school about the cost of the state with their professors who know well. That's an advantage. What else is an advantage? All of them and those from technical schools after such preparations and those from high school had their final exams and their graduations, and after that received exams. Now high schools in most cases say we're going to use the results of state graduation to access high schools. You pass your national prom, possibly somewhere sadder election class, and we'll tang you, you did everything at your school. Thus, I also refer to the part mentioned by the esteemed representative Lugaric. So I dare say this time support, support for our students actually much greater than it has ever been before. When we talk about the duration of education, we all agree that basic education does not give any qualification. It's a fact, it's so. And that those people who don't graduate from high school don't have the qualifications to be socially excluded many times. And so we said, and you brought to the Croatian Parliament last year that document, the National Programme of Measures, which gradually led to the creation of preconditions and then sanctioning it legally. It is our intention and we have been running since the amendments to the Constitution to enter a provision after these preparations, for two years now we have been doing so, will continue next fall, to run for office and to say that we are extending education. So that should be said in the Constitution. And then probably, at least it seems, there will be a provision in which it will be said to be extended, but that it will be governed by a special law, so the Law on Middle Education, where it is then accurately said. So we'll make it very clear that it's such a model, in fact there won't be any doubt, we actually want to get each of our students to have their first qualification and to have a chance on the labour market. This is the goal, and we provide him with all the conditions and parents never had better support from the state budget because you chose to do so, so both for transport and textbooks and for housing in homes and for all those who were limited, who could not educate their three children at the same time. Now with the help of the state I can really do it. And these effects are very significant after two years. Furthermore, when the textbooks were mentioned, the esteemed representative Lugaric mentioned here that we have a lack of textbooks in our vocational schools. It's true. But this terrible deficit compared to a little over several years ago has fallen significantly this year when the state obtained from the state budget and publishers who had no guarantee that the textbooks would be purchased now definitely have. This image is significantly improved compared to past times. This is what should also be highlighted and it is good and it improves the quality of our education. Harmonising with labour market needs is very important, we talk about it all the time. But I have to tell you, when Agent Koračević is on Varazdin, about the interest in certain occupations I can now confirm that there have been such connections where labour market needs are being heard. So their city in cooperation with the Croatian Employment Office asked the businessmen what kind of interest they needed, which they currently do not have, or perhaps some training, so they said they needed experts who would know how to draw in the Autocad programs or... And they educated them within a period of six months, and went to a well-known employer and got the job immediately. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's something that's already started, and we now believe that this process will continue. And finally when it comes to deadlines, allow me, we can set any deadline. For some kind of rulebook for six months and we can miss that deadline. Maybe this is where you'll be told you didn't bring it in on time. Well, maybe it's a bigger guarantee if those of us who do those regulations are going to make an effort, it doesn't matter how much it says here, that we bring it before that deadline. And to finish, when I talk about those years in 2012, in 2013, all these jobs we're talking about now, including the law we're preparing, are run by the Professional Education Agency. They're facing 200 standard qualifications, 200 standard occupations, so this is the deadline, this is the last year until we actually have to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28015	Correction of an incorrect allegation. Mr. Agent Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28016	Look, it's not that you as a ministry or as an agency, as soon as possible, bring it in, but it's that you set yourself a deadline that's real and stop setting tasks for the next government that should be done, and you're not able to do it. That's what this is about. The European Qualification Framework has therefore been adopted. We've been working on the National Qualifications Framework for the fourth year. So is that okay? It's not right. Yeah, and if we're gonna pass a law that's gonna start to work. It's not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28017	It's not right, but it's not a correction to an incorrect quote, a correction to a second point of view. Professor? We're just having a discussion about professional education about the Rules of Procedure then. Now an individual debate, Madam Representative Susana Bilić Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28018	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We have seen and heard in the debates in the first reading of this law that this House held in early December of last year. Today, when before us the Final Proposal for a Law on Professional Education in which the Proposer accepted and incorporated the comments and proposals that the representatives and the clubs of the MPs presented in the debates, what else but to say a well done job, congratulate the motionary of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all who participated in the draft law. And if we are in discussions today on behalf of the club's presentations and we have heard a little dissonant tones, I am pleased that all clubs have so far given their support to the final draft law on vocational education. A short and modern law with only 44 articles on its content is a European law, although only in one paragraph, the first paragraph of the second is equalising the rights of the European Union citizen to vocational education in the Republic of Croatia under the same conditions, they have the same conditions as Croatian citizens and that article is effective on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, which I hope will soon happen. The importance of this law is that for the first time in a single document in this basic law, professional education is governed by a commitment by the proposing system for permanent harmonisation of vocational education systems with labour market needs, as well as the design of a system that enables lifelong education and better vertical and horizontal passing. In this respect, a large improvement in the system is also a reduction in the number of education sectors by more than half from 29 to 13 as well as the number of professions for which our high school students are educated. I particularly welcome and by law the establishment of a Council on Professional Education in charge of harmonising the work of all participants in this area, therefore in the field of vocational education, which gives a boost to the adoption of new amendments and additions to existing curricula, proposes educational sectors as well as measures and activities, as well as the strategy for the development of vocational education. It has also been welcome to show the necessary empowerment and expansion of the work of the pre-established Professional Education Agency. Article 18 of this Law lays down participants in the field of vocational education from competent ministries for certain sectors, local and regional self-government through trade unions, employers' associations, professional and other associations, chambers, higher universities, as well as legal persons working in employment to a final institution for vocational education tasked with promoting and directing the development of vocational education at national, local and regional levels. I would point out here examples of good practice and so far in the vocational education in the area of Brod-Posavina County and the town of Slavonski Brod from which I come. So let's say, as an example, I cite the cooperation of the industrial and crafts school in Slavonski Brod with certain companies from Đuro Đakovic group which has led to the education of young people for the knowledge and skills needed for industry. In this way, these students have a job security post at the end of school, and companies have the professional workforce they need. Or another good example from Slavonski Brod is Matija Antun Reljković High School, which has three schools in its composition – Agricultural and Technical, Veterinary and Chemical. Agricultural-technical has agriculture and forestry, and the chemical has chemistry, ecology, nutrition and geodesy. This school gives its students the first interest in starting their family economy or on the market to quickly find a job, as well as to continue professional and university studies. And when we mention this vocational school, which in the phase of creating a centre of excellence in both equipment and personnel, and which in the last five, six years with the help of the founders in the construction of the CARDS-A programme in 2004 used 4 and a half million kuna for the equipment of laboratories and practices necessary for the professional education of students in the 21st century. So agricultural routes have one of the most equipped micropropagation laboratories in the entire region. If we contribute to this and cooperate with the University of Slavonski Brod to conduct a professional study of biliary and horticulture, I consider this school to be one of the exemplars of vocational schools that we seek in Croatia and for which we all agree with this law. Why did I mention the use of the CARDS funds? If we want this law to live in full strength and to get the desired results as soon as possible, we know that we have to invest a lot in improving the material conditions and equipment of vocational schools. It is therefore recommended to the directors as well as to the founders that we should and must use the funds of pre-accession funds for that purpose. I am sure that the adoption of this law will also be welcomed by the directors of vocational schools in the middle who have problems finding professional staff because this law regulates much more favourable conditions for employees as teachers of professional and theoretical content, teachers of practical teaching and exercises and vocational teachers. More than six and a half thousand of them. But this law will also help the founding members of high schools who, according to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, are obliged to build a network of secondary schools better said and more accurately a network of educational programmes. And final. The Law on Professional Education is another stone in the mosaic of the overall reform of Croatian secondary education, and I hope that by almost adopting the announced Art Education Act, it will be complete. Because of all 139 000 young people in Croatia who make up 75% of the total high school population who attend vocational and artistic schools. And something to think about for all of us here in the House in which we pass laws, and also to the legislators and lawmakers is one provision and a recommendation of the Committee on Law, which is precisely in the report given by the Committee on Legislatives in the last place, and it tells us if we can review the possibilities, I will now translate it, can we review the possibility that the use of foreigners in Croatian laws should be reduced to as little as possible. So wherever we have a good Croatian word, I advocate that in the Croatian Parliament it brings Croatian laws in Croatian, so with as few foreigners as possible. And so with this little fence at the end and from everything I said before, I will support the adoption of the Law on Professional Education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28019	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28020	Dear colleagues, this is the last thing you said, in fact, this opinion, the suggestion of the Legislative Committee to reconsider the use of some words. When I spoke on behalf of the club, I just said we needed to clear up the concepts. The Legislative Committee is not, and people who are in the Committee on Law do not deal with education and do not deal with a particular fund, so to speak the professional concepts that we use from education. However, the problem arises when we in education have no uniformly defined what a curriculum, which are its different types, which is a qualification, differs in how basic and key qualifications, competences and so on. So the problem is actually just that, not in what the Legislative Committee is saying that it is necessary to find Croatian words because they are actually new words in this system as professional terms, the problem is that they need to be defined in one sense, and so far in this law and in relation to the basic law on education and some other documents, we have different definitions. And that's the problem. Not in what we use, but we don't really know what conditions, circumstances, and what content we mention them in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28021	Replicate response, Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28022	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Lugarić, we agree this time and I understand what you said, but please consider what I said here, which is that when we talk about schools in Croatia, we educate and teach children in Croatian. I have appreciated and heard what you have said in terms of unambiguousness that we are all equally interpreting certain terms, but what I have, I have commended and called for what the Committee on Legislatives unfortunately is the first time in a law relating to education, even if it was... Well, it's also an vocational education, so we can all think together and narrow down the use of aliens to as little as possible where there are good and well-checked Croatian words, and this is what we need to think about and work on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28023	Mr. Agent Anton Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28024	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have heard a lot of high-quality opinions, an explanation of why this law was to be passed, that is, the final proposal for a law on vocational education, not only because we are harmonising this law with the legislation of the European Union where we want to go, but also because a really large number of students are going to vocational education and that it has not been highly valued so far. Since I worked alone in high school, which is a professional technical school, means usually those schools contain programs and technical and industrial, and the law is yet, we can say more well-worked the part that is related to crafts, because our crafts chamber was probably well aware of how it was in the Bavarian area, so I can say that we had a pretty good deal on that part too. We did not follow the truth, as far as the labour market is concerned, however, I can say that today, however, when we have these business zones that this government has potential, which is supporting it, I have to say that in practice those who are coming, especially foreign investors, when they come probably to Zagreb and Rijeka or some larger places not, but in smaller places they ask the question of our vocational schools, ask questions from our school workshops and see what kind of equipment we have at our disposal. In order not to repeat what my colleagues have said, what we are getting, I certainly support this law, and I am happy that this law is passed. Of course, a number of opinions, so let's say one way and the criticism we've heard here about where we are. Of course, we can't say today that we want to and that we can have a professional school like Austria has, like Italy. Perhaps there are colleagues here who have come to some of the first European schools for the future European Union, so where we have seen them, I would therefore stress more this section of practical teaching. They probably saw that there were school workshops there with 50, 70 universal tokarian machines. I'm talking about this piece of metal, probably in wood. So there's a production at school, a production that's in one part, specifically there in the Udines where one of these European schools is, so it was about working for Zanussi. Thus, both students and teachers of practical teaching were there to conduct production. It was going into school at 8:00 in the morning, it was going out at 5:00 in the afternoon. However, there is also a need to highlight in these vocational schools something about criteria. Perhaps the answer to that question was also said by the Secretary of State because Mrs. Petyr was well aware that we don't have much enrolment in vocational schools, as much as we do at the local level, and we give them, we give them at the county level, we give them to the chamber, then we state it at the local level, so these are scholarships for those occupations that we consider to be deficitary. It's probably not just a reason, the reason maybe is because the secretary was saying because you see, the pass-by wasn't from an electrical engineering school to an electrical engineering college, and that's how it is in the west. So, the high schools were privileged by that passing pass, they gave better quality knowledge in mathematics and physics, and these students were privileged to take the admission exam. Maybe we're really going with the state's graduation now to encourage, probably a different enrollment and passivity, so we're going to get that, because then what happens? A high school student came and first introduced himself to the profession in college. This student who comes from high school, he's listened to a dozen professional subjects, so he should be ahead. It is likely that now the student who prepares for the state's graduation, if that's how you gave the explanation, should be in my opinion an interest in vocational schools and that this passability will make it possible for the state's graduation to be successful, of course, so to enroll. Because really if you're looking at 25% of the students enrolled in high school programs, it's not like that out there. Maybe it's too big a number, but it's a problem problem that deserves maybe one round table about it, but I see here a chance. That's why I don't think I'm repeating that content, of course practical teaching needs an expert teacher. This engineer must have formal education and everything else. I believe that these technical industrial schools must have better quality workshops, that these workshops must be where and where better equipped, we have school, truth, and that it takes a period. So it's not possible that we suddenly get to these Western states now and gradually, so over a number of years we're going to get to that. These suggestions are good here and I can see that we all agree on that. So, craft schools may be ahead because they have, especially large cities have a sufficient number of licensed workshops but less environments need and I think you should and that you should probably accept this proposal to invest more funds in these schools, in their practices, in their workshops, to organise production there, whether it will be dealt with by some kind of contract or not but in any case make it possible. I know it's very expensive, professional schools are very expensive. There is a numbered machine that costs 300-400 and more thousands of kunas but with those simulators that I have seen now in schools that exist, so it is also necessary to organise more serious production because this will satisfy the requirements of those who come into our zones and who ask. I have to say that I've witnessed it twice in the smaller places that you have, which labour force, that labour force suits us, and maybe that's one of the reasons we're going to invest in those zones. As far as the textbooks are concerned, I have to say that the good ministry can't finance a small number of professional textbooks, but I think I know that we solved it at school level where the Ministry has recognised the textbook, has admitted someone's work as a teacher to be a textbook, and that it was solved at school level, and I think it's possible and I don't think it's such a big problem again, even though I did it while I was and there were such four textbooks. And they were accepted because it is about vocational schools that have three such schools in Croatia. Here is why earlier, as colleagues stated in the law, I will certainly support this law with some little problem thinking about what should be brought about especially as regards this passing and enrolment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28025	Thank you. Replica Mr. Agent Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28026	Thank you very much. I agree very much with you fellow Mance. In my first reading, I greatly commended the law, and I was very pleased with the vast majority of the elements. However, if we adopt such a law in particular in its final provisions, so that the professional curricula must be passed by 31.12.2013 and the entire system of vocational education will only be able to function once the professional curricula is passed. This means that the law will really start to apply in 2014, 2015. This means that the first students and students will leave school in 2018 or 2019. This means that we will fully agree with European interests in nine or ten years, and that is what seems unacceptable to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28027	Answer to the replica Mr. Agent Anton Mance.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28028	I think it's still going to go in practice because I say it's impossible to get there now all of a sudden and say now we're going to spend it and get there in four years. Some centres through this law as talked about centers that exist at the level of the region. I think it'll make that part possible because I can't have all the schools. However, if you see that schools that are professional in smaller places still need to be enabled and they need to be supported by both local and regional self-government and local, regardless of our legal obligation in this funding, but I think there should be a will to do so and help. Because that's the only way we're going to do this more evenly. And I don't think we're gonna wait that long, but only if you're looking at the law of this funding that's starting right now. Of course, with the distribution of funds that the ministry will monitor that there are schools on the ground, such as equipment and that they will be directed and that in the network of schools, it says that we will achieve quality. It's a rational network. I made that note to myself, if the criteria for enrollment are children who finish primary school and not a quality institution, then we won't make a move. To me it's, here I come from practice not the truth now slow, I think it's very important. I agree with the good part that you've made remarks earlier and I've read them all, and as far as I can see they've been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28029	Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28030	A fellow Mance, just about the textbook. It was a good practice for these small books for vocational school textbooks to appear from school as textbooks that the ministry bought these fees, that they were basically what teachers or teachers prepared for their lectures, so it was processed to say in the textbooks, that it was a good solution. I am afraid with new solutions to the Law on textbooks which has a very strict rules of licensing of publishers and defining who it may be to be a publisher that such something will either be important or it will not be possible at all. Just so we know what we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28031	Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28032	Honorable Vice President, Secretary of State, fellow MPs. This proposed Law on vocational education should be a turning point for the current system of vocational education which does not give sufficient staff for production professions and does not motivate young people enough to enroll in vocational schools for the deficiting professions of a particular profession or craft. Although the Government of the Republic of Croatia set up the Professional Education Agency in 2005 to adapt the system of vocational education and training to the needs of the economy, unfortunately we do not have some better results in promoting and improving vocational education. The modern system of vocational education must be closely linked to the needs of the labour market and be visible for the needs of future professional and crafts activities. The syphilic enrollment of students and students resulted in completely chaotic trends in employment. They should educate young people for the necessary occupations, not to steal God’s education from the Employment Service. Learning and learning i.e. Lifelong learning labour makes it flexible, not running on bread from place to place or from country to country, and the conditions for it must create a state system headed by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. The labour market is crying out for certain deficits such as masonry, roofers, pasteurs, postmen, waiters, etc., I could count on dozens of jobs that are slowly extinct in Croatia and Croatia is therefore issuing more and more work permits to foreigners year after year with growing unemployment at the Croatian Employment Office. I believe that this law will correct the shortcomings in the system of education of vocational teachers for whom unfortunately there is no standard of teacher interest which can result in insufficient competence for continuing work. Croatia does not have the right to exterminating certain professions in the profession or crafts because we have not all undertaken to motivate and educate individual professions and crafts. Why should companies no longer engage with scholarships and thus further motivate the education of deficiting professions and thus directly contribute to the relief of unemployment rather than simply waiting for the import of labour forces. I therefore believe that we must be far more connected in the partnership of all institutions, associations that care about vocational education, and through joint work can contribute to the greater motivation of students of vocational education and practical teaching, the reconstruction of all curricula and the creation of conditions for lifelong learning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28033	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28034	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. In my debate on this law, I will refer to a brief provision of the law itself, which is Article 22 which speaks of the obligation of the founder and the institution to provide practical instruction for students. We used to call it teaching or apprenticeship in my day, when we didn't have the laws of P.Z.E. It seems to me that the experience and information that I have and with what I know, I'm afraid that this provision will not be strong enough, firm, resilient point, to provide adequate practical instruction for my children. The more I doubt, for example, that County as a body of regional self-government can help to find employers who would take the students to school. I know of some schools like the Economic School in Čakovec which has extremely good conditions for practical teaching in agricultural directions, because it has its land plots, its orchards, gardens, where children really learn, produce, sell and earn. The technical crafts school in Čakovec also has workshops especially in the metal profession, students work on the same or similar machines they will find in craftsmen, craftsmen or other employers. But these are rare examples when and in the machinery park, according to equipment, the way in which the training is conducted and under the supervision of professors, authorized or responsible people. You are also aware that I am confident that the ministry takes a large number of employers away from them, not to teach them something, but to be a free or terribly cheap workforce for the simplest cleaning, oversupply, storage, unloading, loading. Because they personally took them, but they have no interest because they don't have such long-term plans that they're going to need a qualified workforce. Thinking about what kind of possible solution to offer, this is the final proposal so I didn't want to write the amendments but time would show I'm sure I needed to do the work. So I do not believe that the founder of the institution, the county and the City of Zagreb will be able to be useful, except for the appeal, with other mechanisms not available. So I'm wondering if the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce were legally granted public authority in order to make their membership mandatory for employers to have to be members by law, so that it would not be good for each other to start working in the field of education as well as for each other. Either only the leaders will be photographed at press conferences and various fairs in Oman, Kazakhstan or I don't know where they don't already promote Croatian entrepreneurship. Namely, they are those whose members are employers, especially in the Chamber of Brethren, those small ones who have a terrible number, and in the economics of these mediums they are larger. Shouldn't they take on yet another public authority and the obligation to assume with their members the obligation to find so many job openings that school institutions have enrolled children according to their demands. We're often in a situation where they negotiate that schools educate profiles and staff that they don't even need. It is also the employment office that warns at times that we are studying professions and professions that later cannot find a job. On the other hand, we have a Croatian Chamber of Commerce and crafts which suggest and say what profiles and professions are needed. And that's good. However, when the ministry gives consent to a correspondent to open a new profession or expand or increase the number of entries or open another department, then the problem is finding a place for practical teaching. And how, then, that economic or crafts chamber has the moral right to seek some new direction, profession, occupation, if it has no obligation at the same time to ensure practical teaching. And I agree with the question of student fees, the reward being the subject of the law, and the obligation of an employer to him. And God forbid at least 60% of employers pay them off. Now he's paying them maybe two, three percent. They work for free. They don't even pay their transportation costs, and they don't buy them work suits. They have to buy their own shoes, gloves and work suits most often and do terribly difficult jobs and far more than the prescribed number of hours, because they need a signature at the end. Without the employer's signature, nothing, and that signature, unfortunately, costs money. That's why I was thinking if you didn't want to drag the agency into this obligation they'd have a lot of work to do if they're going to do what the law says. Think of it that maybe after a year, two experiences of a chamber being reached by public authorities, they also have public obligations on this. Today or tomorrow, we will discuss a bill to establish an agricultural chamber that will also have public authority. The agricultural direction of profession and profession is increasingly sought, and we should have more and more. So if we're already going to start a farming chamber, with public powers and with mandatory membership, and it should be in that position to think and long-term build and help you in the Ministry of Education to study in the theoretical part of the school, and practice with them and their members. So, on the other hand, it would be even better if there was money and you gave them and within 5 years of all the schools so much budget that all the equipment of your workshop, less or more, practicals, manufacturing halls, agricultural estates, but I know it's even 50 years away, because then the quality would be higher. And according to this in the end, it is the obligation of a teacher, or one in charge of practical teaching, that I am not sure that even under the current system, and also by these provisions of the law, there is a lot of protection for the interests of children of pupils. I'm not sure, because I've often witnessed that even employers' arrangements with those who monitor practical teaching usually end up in a way that makes them benefit from it. And I'm finishing my debate. So, I won't write the amendments, I didn't give the amendment. You'll see, think about it. I'll uphold that law. And I am finishing my debate, colleagues and colleagues and Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, showing great satisfaction that after 14 interrogations and 6 months today, I finally got Prime Minister Sanader's answer to his parliamentary question, resulting in conditions for privileged parliamentary and government pensions still being tightened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28035	Let me share with you this great pleasure and happiness you have afforded yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28036	I'm glad that at least I'm okay with you, Vice President. Everyone else doesn't, but there's at least two of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28037	I think that consensus is at least 106%. Replica, Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28038	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. Well, Mr. Lesar, you mentioned the question of practical teaching and who should organize it. I think it's one question that is present not only in this time, in the not only of free Croatia, but it was present before and when we went to school, not only for those who went to vocational schools, but especially for those of us who went to high school, so we went to Djakovo at the factory, in Posavino there as a practical course, which was mandatory then. However, the question of how this was dealt with was certain that it was not good and not good. At this time, the question of practical teaching would certainly be the best solution if there were certain polygons for practical teaching within vocational schools. I had the opportunity, especially in this profession where I also see agriculture and veterinary in Hungary, where there are certain facilities, farms or pigscaping or perading where these students, i.e. those professional students care about these vocational schools. I think two questions are important how to solve this with us, because there's a code in Osijek I don't know in... agricultural schools and orchards, etc., but two things should be resolved anyway. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is a question of teachers' motivation to participate in this part and the second question itself of the activation of the students themselves, because students are the same as those who may be more or less interested in the whole of this process. Therefore, it's a two-sided profession that should be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28039	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28040	My colleague fully agrees with you that the possibility of conducting a practical course within the institution's own school would be the most ideal solution, but this dilemma about how to monitor and control that it is also good quality, but not humiliating to students of your own experience. Then many, many, many years ago, my professor of practical teaching with us worked only one hour a month, and all the rest of the time he had for a tour and without his signing a weekbook at the workplace where you were, where I was, whatever this employer wrote to me wasn't worth it. It's an old teacher's school. Don't worry, they didn't need the laws to control, monitor and be quality, and he was the one you depended on. He was bad, but very good.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28041	And judging by your success, very successful. Mr. Representative Goran Heffer, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28042	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, well-respected colleague Lesar, it's entirely justified to care for a practical course. I will remind you that at the end of last year, the Ombudsman for children, Ms. Mila Jelavic, in Osijek, organised an expert debate involving students of 5 Slavonian counties from vocational schools where they were both representatives and the Chamber of Commerce and others. There were then a whole series of remarks on the work of students and even on the need to protect the rights of students from some exploitation during practical teaching. That's what I believe the Ministry has also been informed that it has received certain information and I believe this law will... Let me finish. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] That this law will help to make this as little as possible, i.e. to make it as possible for real teaching and real professionals after leaving those schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28043	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28044	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I apologize, I misclicked the button when you spoke, it's my fault, not my colleague Tomljanovic. You're right, and that's why you're so glad you reminded me of that. Mr. Secretary of State, when it comes to the protection of students' rights in the practical teaching of private employers, consult with the Ministry of Labour's Ministry for the power of labour inspectors and protection at work. It seems to me that those provisions in the Labour Act and the Labour Protection Act are not enough at this point if it's all that's left here. So I'm not saying, but consult, see, and you've heard it's really necessary to intervene. There is a part of the student who will have to address for the protection of his rights with institutions. Yeah, and at this point they're asking me who, I don't know where to take them.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28045	Madam Representative Jeljana Kalash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28046	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished representatives and promoters, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We are facing a final draft of the law, which, it claims, regulates a formal education and training system which, I quote, "Step competences, get qualifications based on approved learning programmes, permanently harmonizes vocational education with labour market needs, and develops a system that enables lifelong learning and mobility." Today, I would like to point out that it is quite clear, especially since the opening of negotiations with the European Union, that vocational education is recording extremely dynamic activity. And today, given that I am one of the last speakers on this subject, I would not repeat these topics so far referred to by previous speakers, but I will say that vocational education as a system is very important for every economy. Of course, there is no doubt about it, but in this time when changes in the labour market, but also changes in new technologies are so fast and dynamic, it is important that all of us who participate in creation, correction and here is tomorrow's vote of this law to be aware of it. And it seems to me that in the debates so far, it's quite clear and I can say that we're all aware of that. Someone has already said that vocational education lags behind the needs of the labour market. The materials we received indicate that the Committee on Development and Reconstruction has already stated that it is necessary for the standards of occupation and professional qualifications to be harmonised with the needs of every three years. And I will also point out that the International Conference on Professional Education held in Zagreb has made a clear appeal to raise professional education in Croatia to a higher level to monitor the development of technology and markets. It sought to strengthen the partnerships of all institutions concerned with vocational education, i.e. the establishment of the National Council for Professional Education, as we have done. An urgent analysis of sectors and professions was also requested, reconstruction of all curricula, better integration of theoretical knowledge and practices, as well as raising the quality and attractiveness of theoretical and practical teaching, as well as insurance of so-called insurance. passing through integrated lifelong learning. And now that I have cited these facts and pointed out this need to connect vocational education and the economy even though they are, you will agree with me in practical life inextricably, I will point out once again that we have not yet had this law that regulates the system of vocational education. And the importance of this law is sufficiently stated by the fact that 75% of high school students, therefore, of all high school students in general, attend vocational high school and that only 25% are high school students. I've already said that the speakers before me have already said a lot, so I'm going to avoid one part of my presentation, but I can see that some of the remarks that were made in our debate in the first reading on the subject of this law, which concerned better social partners' cooperation. And I would also like to say that I support the amendments proposed by valuable MP Ljubica Lukacic, which relate to the inclusion in the work of the Professional Education Council and, of course, the harmonisation of terminology with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Finally, perhaps one note that I agree with the words of the distinguished representative Mariana Petir, who said that this law is coming at the right time. I agree with her statement, especially from the fact that one of the past years has been declared a year of vocational education and has actually given priority to this topic in the light of Croatia's closerness to the European Union. And finally here are some suggestions I'll concentrate on just one card in line with all the praises you've said so far. Namely, I would like to congratulate you on the adopted suggestions from the first term of office, it seems to me that it was precisely a respected representative, Matušić, who specifically asked your ministry to start making the Law on Artistic Education. And I just want to say for the end that I'm happy to expect the bill on our benches. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28047	Thank you very much. We have a replica, Mrs. Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28048	Dear colleagues, I think it's important that there is an agreement of all around this law to say again that it is not good that for these or those reasons we claim that the law comes at a good time. We're late with the law. It has already been said here that, at best, if the deadlines laid down in the law are to be respected, the curricula should be adopted by 31.12.2013 and that the school will not be subject to this law before the school year 2014/15. I.e. the first students to finish that school of new vocational education, that school will not end in 2017 and in '18, respectively, in '19. For years, so almost ten years. And if we are saying that we are passing the law because today our children, and tomorrow the workers, would be able to enter the European labour market, then it was necessary to get ready and train them in the framework of the European Qualifications Framework. The same HDZ colleagues themselves have also claimed that the law and that too little has actually been done in the past four years, just over four years since the agency was established. I think that's exactly what my colleague Kunst was talking about. That's the point, it's a good thing we have the law and it's not at all controversial, but we're way too late with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28049	Answer, Mrs. Kalash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28050	Thank you. Well, here's to the honourable representative, I'm just going to say that I actually agreed with the words of the distinguished representative Petyr who said this was a good time. I mentioned that I agree with her. Now, if we could connect our two discussions to your debate, then we're 2-1. But I think we'll count who's stronger on the day of the vote. However, I will say that we said I, and I believe that I can say on behalf of the representative, that this is our personal court to which, as representatives, no matter what party we come from, we have the right. A few arguments said by Mrs. Petir, a few arguments I said. You have made your arguments, but I will point out once again that we have so far not had the Law on Professional Education, which is a very important step forward and progress. And I'm going to repeat a replica that I already, I think, may well have said on the subject of this law in the previous session, which is that the way to the knowledge society is painful and long-term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28051	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we held one agreement from the club representatives and I said we could vote tomorrow at 11 o'clock. However, we have three points to plan and end. If we're not going to continue tomorrow at 9:30 but wait for 11 votes and that, then we need to discuss the 11th and 12th points tonight. And the 13th is that 11, 12 and 13. Or should we continue at nine and a half tomorrow and then stop when we're done with this, then we vote. Now these are two variants you know. We have this about Slovenia statement etc. where we agreed about it and all of it...... What? ...the intruder can't be heard. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's go at nine and a half. Well, then, Mr. Linic, then what I said there, I'm pulling now. I mean, we can't do that either way. So we've got to work it out. So now we're going to try this 11th and 12th and start tomorrow with the chamber, the agricultural chamber. I hope it ends the vote and so on. I think that's pretty real. Yeah? Do we agree? So now these two points when we're done with this one. It's Agent Ivan Hanzek's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28052	Well, well-respected president, distinguished colleagues and colleagues from the ministry. I must say, start my debate with the Croatian Radio. Don't chase me for word now given the pace and dynamics we live in this week and in the Parliament and around the Parliament and in politics. I've been listening to this law-making show for a day, and I've had some things to hear, and I don't know which one of you were involved because I'm getting involved later, so I can't claim by name or last name. But some things that might have been said in a more popular way. Why do I say in a more popular way in radio and show any concrete things both from unions and from people who work in education. Namely, there are some terms to be used. I have to say, unfortunately, this nation and this nation are inclined to put into circulation an expression that's been going on for decades, so that we can deal with it. I'm not an educator. Does this curricula really have to be used everywhere, and in fact, most of the population doesn't know what it means to be essential and detailed? It's more like this then one of my general views and feelings and it's most often a problem for many laws that should still be printed further that all equally in implementing the laws that are in charge of it interprets that I don't speak urbanism building and seeing institutions. As far as the law itself is concerned, I'll take a few, let me say the suggestions again thanks to listening to Croatian Radio, the first programme that was pointed out. In particular, Article 29 states that if the practical teaching and exercise is continued for 4 or more hours a day, the participants referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be provided for at least 30 minutes a day. I see that you have absorbed and respected suggestions in some other articles. However, I think this should still be corrected, try to fix it. In fact, it is that not all occupations are either physically easy, nor simple, that especially in our neighborhoods where we come from and we are not from the city center of Zagreb where public transport, easy arrival to the company or employer, means several hours spent on the road, and that they are mostly minors or older minors, so that we should make sure that we do not have the apprentices of Hlapiće who are provided with a daily rest of half an hour. I don't have any suggestions, but I'm just suggesting that people who are competent from health to other competences that we have to try to install or for the future find ways to install one solution that would take care of that. It is good that I also have to commend point 5 of the same article that the student cannot be on the same day and on a practical exercise, because I do repeat rural and other areas where it is a journey longer to the employer where it can be done there is no in every place of such activity, that it is practically impossible or it would require about a pace of work as in this House of Ten or Twelve hours almost without interruption. I noticed in that debate that led one problem as well as that of the prize. By the way, 10% net, 20 and 25 sounds nice. In deficits, however, the most common problem is that the basic net salaries of full-time employees are, for example, 25 percent in particular, about 500 kn of the average wage, specifically in the textile industry, or in some shops. There's no smart solution. It's good to be some kind of let me put it that way, rewarding guide. However, we would do well to see the question of compensation for travel expenses. Because in some cases this reward will be but couples actually by travel costs in public transport. Not everyone can travel by train. We can see that the number of passengers on the train is growing because it's cheaper. However, where bus lines are located we know that we have a lot of monopolies in bus transport and that from day to day bus fares rise and that the parents of children who go into these occupations are not able to cover each other, and the employer is also unable to give a reward for the costs of transport. Okay. You can always ask the question of the local community. I have to say one thing. I can't go into a rock debate. I agree that any law we need would have been better if we'd had it a long time ago. But I don't think we'll have anyone to apply this law to soon. In fact, we must change the overall social climate according to work and professional professions. We in Zabok, thank God, had people thinking at the right time, so textile schools turned them into an Art School of Design textiles and the like. They have workshops. I can practice at my place, but there are no interested parties, no candidates. It is positive that on our chamber headed by I must mention this man because he deserves the president of our Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Ranogajec. I believe that he also participated in preparations for this law and consultations to work on child animation, to be brought into workshops to see that the CNC machine that it is no longer carrying 200 or 300 kilos of heavy weight, that it is actually with music, work and workplace, that today they do both fragile and weaker physical our female colleagues. But until we're animated, until we all as a society do more popularizing expertise, expertise, such specialist education. We have here, in the area of Zagora workshops that work for Bentley special things. Young people don't know about it, but everyone loves cars and we'd like to participate in, say, work on a project like that, and that's where we have to work on popularizing. The law itself will not be enough if we do not create other social assumptions, but unfortunately the media and others will not follow us, as much as we politicians and you work hard because it is more popular to write that you can drive without work in Lomborghini or Porchea, but write that you have to work for 8 or 10 hours so that you can succeed in life and represent a respected member of the community. Once again, I'm glad, here's a commendation that you've respected, I've heard the remarks that have been made and that you've corrected it. My suggestion is if one of these elements can be solved or taken into account by implementing acts without any amendment pressure, and additionally to incorporate those experiences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28053	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28054	Excuse me. Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's what my colleagues before me have already pointed out more or less everything that matters to this law, so I'm going to shorten my debate as much as possible. I just want to say that I welcome the adoption of this law. Just because we need this kind of law because this system of education and education so far, here we have not been regulated by a special regulation. I'll briefly look back on just some of my proposals that I think I need to install into this law, and they're bound, of course, to people with disabilities. I also welcome that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has accepted the proposal to appoint a member who will represent students with developmental difficulties, but it seems to me that it is necessary to say exactly where this member will come from, so here I am in my amendment to be a representative of the national alliances of persons with disabilities, since representatives of national alliances of persons with disabilities represent children, i.e. students or students with developmental difficulties, and they are also the most competent as regards persons with disabilities, so anything concerning them, whether education, health or any other segment of life. Furthermore, in Article 16 I believe that it is also necessary to include a representative of the national alliances of persons with disabilities, so Article 16 refers to the sectoral councils. I think it is absolutely necessary for such a representative to be a member of the sector council. In Article 20, I propose that we add the word, when we talk about students with difficulty in adding the word in development, and here's why. Namely, the Republic of Croatia signed the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Convention entered into force on 3 May 2008 and is bound by the Republic of Croatia. I therefore believe that everything about people with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities should be brought into line with these terms, and these terms and professions and persons with disabilities were accepted in 2003. Furthermore, here in Article 22, I think it is also necessary to include that founders must take care of tailored vacancies for students with difficulties, i.e. for students with developmental difficulties because tailored vacancies are unfortunately rare and I think that they must be particularly cared for. So these are my proposals, and I believe that the proposer will consider them and eventually accept them, and here I am, once again supporting the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28055	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28056	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, I support the first two amendments by Mrs. Lukacic, who has made it very clear that persons with developmental difficulties in any case, through persons with disabilities should be represented, but would also look to the side of us service providers, us medical workers, and there is the Secretary of State for Health, Mr. Drazen Jurkovic, so please, since this will be the obvious coordination of the two ministries that on the specialist improvement of our nurses you especially take care of the curricula because so far these children of 15, 16 years old, were those medical technicians or nurses entering the operating halls, attended the births, saw the wounds, you know those we see at 20 years of age, even in medicine at 22, 23 years old. So it's extremely important that we give these children the adoption of knowledge, the adoption of skills, but at an adequate age of life, it's inadmissible to be in 15, 16, and that's why I appeal to both the secretary of state to include it in the curricula. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28057	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, in conclusion, Mr Želimir Janjic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28058	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Allow at the end of the respected MPs and MPs to thank you all who participated in the debate, who have submitted amendments that we will consider and see which we can fully accept and which we may accept in some modified form and all with the aim of improving this text and coming to better solutions. But let me now after this debate to look back on a few details. I'll try the ones I know have been solved but just to point out that incorrect information would go public. So I would say first to the esteemed representative Lesar that what he advocates when it comes to the control of practice or the inspection of work, etc., that those solutions that he advocates are already in Articles 29 and 38 exactly the way it should be. Furthermore, I would like to say to the esteemed representative Hanzek that there is no need to trouble the travel expenses because we are paying travel expenses to our first and second graders of high schools. So, he doesn't need any extra money for the cost, and we pay it on the basis of that national programme of measures to introduce compulsory secondary education under those incentive measures that you have adopted here. But I'll add one more thing. Someone's going to say they're not covered by third and fourth graders. And from the autumn the third will be covered, so gradually as it was said. But since all units of local self-government and regional government and five or six years ago may have co-financed almost every transportation of 20 % of secondary school students, 30% of them, some maybe 50% of the previous two years when we started this incentive measure and we pay for the inter-urban transportation of students freed up funds to local self-government units because we took that commitment from the state budget so that they increased those amounts and they now covered that small part of the third and fourth grade students who were not covered by these measures. And I will remind, in addition to what is paid for the first and second grades of secondary schools from the state budget, it is paid for both third and fourth graders first from the position of the Ministry of the Sea for all students on the islands, and is paid from the Ministry of Regional Development for all third and fourth grade students who are in areas of special state care. So that little part that's left is very easy to service by local self-government units. That's nice of them, we thank them because they care about their students, too. But let me finally point out something that I find particularly important, perhaps immodest, but I hope you won't mind. In all these changes that we are preparing for and which we have been spending for several years when it comes to vocational education, I must remind you that we want not only to make changes in vocational education but we want to raise the quality of vocational education. So no more environments should be interested only in schooling but should be interested in quality education, to come out as good experts. I'll remind you that we would strengthen this system, prepare it, to have better support, which is one of the most important things that we've done so far to get to all of this. So we established the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, passed the law before that and established that institution and for the first time introduced an external evaluation of education into the Croatian school system since it existed. Why? To give information to the school how successful they are, to compare themselves with others, to see how much they need to go up to make their education more quality. Furthermore, we have set up the Professional Education Agency, and here is the director of Shuttal who ran this work that we are doing, so which is a much better support for the system of vocational education than there have been so far those nine advisors at the Education and this institution, this professional institution has been building here for the third year and we already have good results. Of course, there'll be even better. We started the Agency for Adult Education and already last year launched the first competition where we directly encourage lifelong learning programmes, training, training, and for the beginning of the three most critical counties we employ funds from the state budget what we have announced and most of it refers to professional programmes. Furthermore, set up the Mobility Agency and EU programmes. It is important because of the external resources that we have at our disposal which should also be prepared for. Furthermore, we have pre-accession IPA programmes, especially the fourth component of human potential development. They also hired experts at the Professional Education Agency and at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. So we have to prepare ourselves so we can withdraw all the millions of dollars that are in our disposition, but we have to carry out the procedure first. So the system is absolutely prepared for it and can also check how successful we are at it, let's say, when it comes to this part of the job. I will not talk about building school facilities, it has been rapidly built since the end of the last century to say so and perhaps more intensively since 2001 when it is decentralised but also when we later withdrew some other favourable loans or European Investment Bank or Central European Bank, or World Bank. And what I particularly want to highlight is precisely from these funds but also from the state budget. Especially for the last three, four years we've been equipping our schools and workshop equipment, and practicals, and information equipment. In the last few years, there's not one school that's not covered by, say, information equipment that doesn't have at least one IT classroom, and we have a school that has 250 computers. So what I'm saying is that we've really done a lot here and we want to do as much as possible. That's all the assumptions that we're working on on what we're talking about right now. So let me know how much we care about that. Wherever there's anything going on, believe what you're talking about not only isn't unknown to us but we've been there. When Mr. Trajčević talks about the Varazdin County he also mentioned agricultural programs that students do not want to go to. Yeah, we were at Vince at the Agricultural Veterinary School, we know about their problem, we know he fell to 250 students. But we went there with them to see what it was supposed to do to make sure the picture wasn't like that with maybe credits, so we talked among other things about building a dormitory home to get students from other parts that were hard to travel. And then they followed their contacts with the Faculty of Agronomics who was ready to open up with them and dislocated professional study to get this education up in verticals, so one part of the capacity should be for students as well. So each middle detects what they need but our full support has. Or if you will when Mrs. Susana Bilić Vardić mentioned Slavonski Brod. Of course, we are talking about connecting with the labour market, so Holding "Djuro Djakovic" and the County of Brod-Posaviska have obtained very expensive equipment for welders. It's an occupation as we now say the lower expert prepares, two years. The most modern ones were previously unable to get, and now they've got 30 students who train on the most modern machines and have a safe job when they're done. So when we talk about this integration of education and labour markets, believe in a number of environments, it's very much in motion. Furthermore, when I talk about it, I can't just mention what's going on. Recently in Virovitica-Podravska County, i.e. in Virovitica, we opened practices. We have a practice for wood-processing profession, the county built a building out of its resources, invested 3 million kunas. We bought the CNC stand for a million-and-a-half kuna and students now have a quality practical class and they are inventive. So not only do they program, but how skilled they are at it. They also installed a microcamera inside the machine itself so they can see what happens there when the machine is processed. So there is actually no place to do something that there is no synergy, including us in the ministry, and that problems are solved and solved successfully. So we're not going to stay deaf to any environment that any help in that part needs. So if you want how many places we now have where different approaches are made to this registration policy when we went to all the county and talked to all of them both with the founders and with our schools and with the businessmen. The result of all this is now that for these 2008 entries you will actually have propaganda films that individual counties will show through their local televisions to our students, not to send papers that they may not even read. So bring them closer to those occupations, and then the children will see what you said, that they are not dirty occupations, that they have become very easy occupations, sought and that a lot of money is earned. So we've reached that level. And in the end, when I speak of this part, the esteemed representative Lugaric, the esteemed representative of Flego, when you question these deadlines, may now seem to be far away from that year, so it will be as you mention it. But here, I may not be precise, but what if, in one sector by the end of the year, we have everything that says we're going to do and that's how we do it. ... So don't be surprised if we have all this covered in one sector. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] When the esteemed representative Ostojić appeals to us to do this part, be sure, we now have such a situation that is not good. All that stuff you said, and one part you said is really like that. Well, we have a fifth year if you want one that's not in the education system, but students have to be able to go volunteer for that year. And who knows what's going on in that effort to find that year in the hospital, in the home of health or elsewhere, because they can't start working until they've worked that year. They don't have enough hours of practice. So wouldn't it be wiser if it were part of the curricula, that it was part of the system that students didn't have to ask for it, that's what we're going to do. So these are the jobs that are ahead of us and make sure we do them. In a much better way than... Of course it's not good that minors are now going to watch what we shouldn't actually do at that point, but there isn't enough hours. We know about those 4000 600 hours. So these are the jobs ahead of us. These are the jobs we'll definitely do. And these five years that I've been in this place we've really gone all over, we've seen a lot of things, we've done as much as we could, we'd be better off doing even more, but what's ahead of us be sure that I'll try anyway. And since you mentioned several times art education, I'm one detail forgets to mention. So, I said we held a committee meeting where everyone got their assignments, but another meeting was held with the deans of our art academys who are equally interested in this law and who will make their contribution to making this law as soon as possible. Not so fast that he'd be unquality, but to make him fit quality. Thank you all and tomorrow we'll finish... the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28059	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll probably decide tomorrow. Final proposal of the Law on Professional Education, Second Reading, P.Z.E. Number 208. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The review of the amendment is divided into benches. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be made aware of the proposed amendments. State Secretary Želimir Janjic. First of all, the amendment of MP Ivanka Roksandić to Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28061	MP Ivanka Roksandic's first amendment was accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28062	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the bill. Second, the amendment of the representative of the Iron Srecko Fleg and the representative of Marija Lugarić in Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28063	The amendment of the 2nd Representative of the Iron Flag and of the representative of Marija Lugaric was accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28064	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the bill. Third, amendment of the representative of Gvosden Srecko Fleg and the representative of Marija Lugarić to Article 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28065	Amendment 3 of the same deputies was also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28066	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Fourth, amendment of the same representative and representative to Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28067	4th Amendment of the same representative and representative shall be accepted in part and so it shall read. In Article 8(3), the key and key words are replaced by the words "substantial and fundamental". And in paragraph 8, paragraph 7 is amended and reads as follows: "the relevant curricula is shown by the objectives and content of the methods of content implementation and the environment for learning".
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28068	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28069	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you for accepting this part of the amendment. This part that you have not accepted refers to redefining the relationship between national and professional curricula, i.e. their exact notional definition. We have written our amendments in accordance with the strategy of adopting a national curricula that has been established by your ministry and your government, if the text remains as you have suggested. So, if this amendment of ours isn't accepted in this part of the amendment, we will withdraw that part of the amendment. But we warn that we should somehow understand as advocates that we should all be in the interest that the documents of the same ministry and the same government have the same definitions and the same notional definitions for the same things. Since it's obviously not because you don't accept that amendment, it seems to me that sooner or later you're going to face it that way, and until you do, we are withdrawing this part of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28070	Thank you. This amendment was accepted in that part as the Secretary of State explained and withdrawn in the part in which it was not accepted. Right?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28071	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28072	Thank you very much. So it becomes an integral part of the bill. 5. Representative Ivanka Roksandić on Article 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28073	5th Amendment of MP Ivanka Roksandić we accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28074	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Sixth, Legislative Committee on Article 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28075	The 6th amendment of the Legislative Committee is also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28076	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 7. MP Ljubice Lukačić on Article 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28077	The 7th Amendment of MP Ljubica Lukačić is also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28078	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 8. Representative Ljubice Lukačić on Article 16.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28079	8th Amendment of the same representative is also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28080	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 9th Representative Ljubice Lukačić on Article 20.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28081	The 9th Amendment is also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28082	It becomes part of the proposal. 10th Amendment of Ms Ljubice Lukačić to Article 22
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28083	The 10th Amendment of MP Ljubice Lukačić is accepted in a changed form by saying in Article 22 "Employers" the words are added: " taking care of tailored vacancy for students with developmental difficulties".
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28084	Yeah, it's okay, I'll take it. Changed like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28085	It's accepted in this statement as the Secretary of State said in that section was withdrawn. It becomes an integral part of the bill. 11th Representative of Professor Gvosden Sreka Flege and Representative Marija Lugarić on Article 32.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28086	The 11th amendment of the said MPs is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28087	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28088	The 12th amendment of the same MPs cannot be accepted. Because the proposed penalties for employers are not acceptable to us. We do not have strong craftsmanship and we believe that we should actually go with stimulating measures, our entrepreneurs, our craftsmen, and most of all, if possible through the Income Tax Act, the Tax Tax Act, and thus actually strengthen them and create assumptions, so for these reasons, yes, teaching is as high-quality as possible, so for these reasons I ask the esteemed advocates to withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28089	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. 13th Representative Ivanka Roksandić, Article 41.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28090	The 13th Amendment of Representatives Ivanka Roksandić is accepted. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment 14. Representatives of Gvosdena Sretka-Flege and Ms. Marija Lugarić on Article 42.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28093	Thank you. Ma'am, Mr. Happy Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28094	Mr. President, I can express satisfaction over the amount of objections the ministry has accepted and representatives of the ministry and the government and accepted the amendments. This amendment, however, is considered a key difference and I ask that special attention be paid to it. It's about this law being too late. It is that this law regulates our qualifications with European and thus enables labour circulation. It is that this law allows the qualifications acquired in Croatia to be recognised in Europe as well. And it's just that we don't let normative acts be made after the law that's been being prepared for several years for a year and something instead of three months. That the standards that operate in Europe are to be applied in Croatia are being developed for three years. That when the law starts to apply for five years and the first qualifications, people with such qualifications leave school for 9 or 10 years. And we think that this amendment should accept and call on the parliamentary majority to accept it and thus show the will to truly change things rather than just verbally. So please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28095	Thank you. I'm putting this amendment on the table that the government doesn't normally accept to vote. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And the 15th Amendment of MP Ivanka Roksandić to Article 42
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28096	The 15th Amendment of MP Ivanka Roksandic is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28097	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the bill. Please, I am voting on the final draft law on vocational education. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was adopted by the majority of votes, 109 votes for, 2 abstentions, along with the amendments adopted. We move on to - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Second Programme of Community activities in the field of health (2008).) emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 264 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mr Drazen Jurkovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28099	Thank you, Mr. President. Gentlemen, distinguished MPs. The second programme of Community activities in the field of health care from 2008 to 2013 relates to cooperation in the field of public health between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community, in such a way that natural and legal persons in the field of health will be able to participate directly in the programmes and use the European Community's resources set out for that purpose. Therefore, the duration of the programme is from 2008 to 2013. The Government of the Republic of Croatia decided at a session held on 31 July 2008 to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of a memorandum of understanding, and the memorandum was signed in Brussels on 30 September 2008. The membership fees will amount to 138 thousand and 646 euros annually, with 80 per cent of the IPA's budget being allocated for 2009 and 15% of the Croatian Government's budget. For 2010 80% of IPA funds and 20% of the government budget of the Republic of Croatia and for 2011 20% of the budget of the Government of Croatia. Here's a thank you and I suggest you accept the memorandum.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28100	Thank you very much. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28101	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It's late, 7 and 6, but it's not too late. There's still time. And there is also time with a memorandum of understanding under the second programme of community activity, the European Community in the field of health, which was signed on 30.9.2008, is now coming for ratification, and the programme has started 1.8.2008. So we lost a year, and the program is already under way. We lost in 2009. We can compete in 2010. What this programme means in the European Union. I'm glad Secretary of State Jurkovic is here, because that's his area. This programme, for example, takes great care of the health of the population, so let's say when we talk about what is the most common cause in Europe for lost years of work, or years of disease, such as ischemic heart disease, depression, celebrovascular isolates, alcohol, chronic lung disease, lung cancers, and car accidents. That makes 34% of the total causes of job loss, lost years of life, lost working years. In the European Year of Carcinoma and non-infectious Diseases, 77% of patients in the European Union were hit, after which there were injuries and poisonings, and infectious diseases were only 9% in third place. What are the factors in the European Union that affect this statistics. First of all tobacco, alcohol, high pressure, high cholesterol, overweight, eating errors, physical inactivity about 60% of all that. Eight causes of death in the European Union are cardiovascular diseases, neuropsychiatric diseases, in third place is cancer, lung disease, respiratory disease, osophageal disease, neuromuscular disease, and, respectively, musculoskeletal disease and diabetes in the eighth place. For this project, the European Union has allocated 321m and 500m euros. The European Union's huge resources are invested with one goal, to improve the health of its population, to improve the health of citizens of the European Union, to strengthen health prevention and to disseminate health information in the system itself. The most important thing of all is that the European Union has recognized some non-infectious diseases, i.e. infectious diseases that can affect the health of the population itself, namely HIV, tuberculosis and malaria. We will give 120 thousand euros for this programme, give some funds for the diaries and travel expenses for the people who will sit there in committees, but we will not withdraw a single kuna from that programme. Why? Well, it's very simple. If you look at what programmes are financed in 2008, then you will see that these are programs that the holders of these programs are national health institutes, large hospital systems, large clinics and NGOs. Speaking of our condition right now, I think I'm going to need a doctor. Jurkovic will be able to replicate, public health institutions will not be able to perform any of the functions provided for in this programme of community activities in the field of health, or public health, because the public health institutions that we have are the most concerned about infectious diseases at the moment. They worry about how many salmonellas we have, how many flus we have, but they don't care about chronic non-infectious diseases. At the time of the press in Croatia, there were 69 dispensers for tuberculosis. It wasn't a long time ago. That was 60 years ago and something less. At this point, we don't have a single dispensary for tuberculosis, and that's fine, but we don't have any high pressure dispensers, high cholesterol, high fat. Andrija Printar said that the doctor must act in society, not that the patient should go to him. Therefore, public health actions are something that is the fluid of this health care that can be counted as being carried out in Croatia in the last 10 years or shorter. We started mammography, so it's 30% response. So We sent forth invitations and calls to women who had died, and We sent out invitations and women who were already treated with breast cancer. So we started with a program of public health, prevention, colorectal cancer, so we sent those famous boxes to the citizens at home, of which they didn't. They say those who were at the post office or in the public health services as it arrived and that it seemed better not to talk about it. There is no systematic public health action. Public Health Services lives very well. These are mastodons in Croatian health who make the best money and they are poop on the market, but sanitary books can only be issued by public health institutions. I wonder what will happen when we enter the European Union, because the European Union does not recognise the sanitary book. There is no such thing in the European Union. The rightness and hygiene of the food are taken care of by the restaurant heads, and you know why? So if an inspection comes to him and finds it inadequate to the standards of the European Union to shut him down. We live very well, i.e. public health institutions, very well live on sanitary books, from the fact that, for example, if you open a restaurant, you have to control certain things, etc., and they've forgotten all the public health problems and they've forgotten all the public health care. A nice and lucrative job, obviously, is that who's going to deal with public health, it's not as curable or as luxuriant as the sanitary books anyway. It can be said that public health education is good public health, it is facing the population to be turned around, but 80% of the time our colleagues in school medicine spend on vaccination. I say they're the best deltoids on the right shoulder because that's what they do all their life. We've taken away the part that's their job, which is to promote a healthy life. It is a population in which this healthy life needs to be popularized and gained habits for later. Because Andrija Stamper said, we were born healthy and then we work our whole lives to become sick. And in that first period, we can learn how not to be sick. I can't get kidnapped without mentioning sexual education. We have sex education, we have these two grapes, not grapes, we have this kind of sexual education, we don't actually have any sexual education, so we can have what's happening to us, and that's that we have pregnant women who aren't even pregnant yet. What happened in Britain doesn't wait for us so far and such cases. It's not like we don't have the frames, we have the frames. We've had good staff, we've had good public-health actions. Remember "Hello breakfast," remember the non-smoking campaign, we introduced the Non-Smoking Act, and we think we've solved everything. The one who smoked will still smoke. We have campaigns to teach the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that smoking is not healthy and that we should think and work healthy. Because we live four years shorter. Why we live four years shorter than Europe can be completely clear to you, because we do not live healthy. And finally, we're going to spend 160 thousand euros every year, and of these 160 thousand euros, I've been looking at the program a little bit, and then there's one study of the frequency of smoking, and that candidate or who applied for this frequency of smoking is one institution called the University of West Macedonia from Greece. Therefore, our funds will be used by another, and we will have benefit by some taking pictures in Europe and receiving these diaries, and unfortunately for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, this programme will be of no use.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28102	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of Croatia in the second programme of activities in the field of health 2008-2013. We at the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of this law of course for several reasons. First of all, we are not such pessimists as counterpart Mrsic said, although he is right in a lot of things, but we believe that these projects will be prepared in time and that Croatian health at the head of the Ministry of Health and Social Care will be able to prepare quality programs in time and use the money that can be obtained here. In this regard, Croatia has the right to participate in public health programmes, both physically and legally, and to report projects that will be funded from European sources. As far as the financial side is concerned, we, of course, are paying for our quotation here. I think it's very well negotiated just because most of the money we pay for the quotation can also be obtained from the IPA programme, means that in 2009, 85% of the funds can be obtained from IPA and 15% from the state budget. One year later, 20% from the state budget, 80% from the IPA, etc. until 2013. Therefore, there are also negotiating teams who managed to negotiate favourable financial conditions for Croatia. What's most important is that we have the opportunity of of course to withdraw significantly more money than it will be our membership fee and it's precisely with quality programs. I agree with my colleague Mrsic that public-health action holders must be institutions that are at the county level for this and established, meaning county public health institutions and the State Institute for Public Health. I also agree that at their stage of adaptation to different circumstances than they have been in the past decades, they have still moved forward. In fact, the new Health Protection Act as well as the new way of funding through the Croatian Health Insurance Institute will strongly encourage public health institutions to come out with their projects and programmes and actually implement them from theory to practice. A new way of funding in which the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance is paying for public health actions, not only of state but also of the County Institute, and I think it is the best incentive for that. Whether they will be reassessed and whether they will indeed become printers of a new time depends clearly on the composition of their professions or their expertise. It depends, of course, on the organisation, but, above all, public relations towards them must change from the ground up and they must become institutions that are respectable. What Printar has done with infectious diseases definitely needs public health institutions to do with non-infectious diseases, and this should exactly be a project that will force them to do so, because it will allow them not only to finance from European funds but also to enable them to consult, contact, professional counselling, so professional support from those countries that have managed to get into such public health actions that will prevent pain and fatigue from cardiovascular diseases and from tumors above all. So we think that this is a commendable contract, and we think that in 2008, it wasn't lost, because it was actually a year of negotiation, and the real five years of funding comes with the current year. So from nine to thirteen it's five years when we're paying our membership fee and our first membership fee is for 2009. So, I don't think we're too late, that the preparation was quality and that we'll be able to benefit greatly from our public health problems here. Because of all this, we propose to accept this contract, and not only because of this, but also because Croatia will participate equally in the control and supervision of not only our projects, but also other foreign projects, so we will also have the opportunity to learn about knowledge, but also the mistakes of others. So we believe that the project will have its positive steps in improving public health in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28104	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. She is the first female representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28105	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the government. We support this Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the second programme of Community activities in the field of health. However, what counterpart Mrsic said on behalf of the SDP club, I think it is crucial. First of all, what are these programs? Are these programs that we need so much to be defined so that these funds can be achieved in a good way. I will look back here on just one question even though it has already gone a long way, but I find it incomprehensible to autism, indolence of the government and responsible for what is happening among our young people. It is unacceptable for the minister to say that two associations or cooperatives have not agreed on it. So where is the government's responsibility and the question of responsible sexual relations between young people. The government's irresponsibility and escape from this problem thus the government cannot escape responsibility. They are directly responsible for the health of every man. The Minister of Health is responsible for the health of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and in their own youth. So to ask such a question and leave it to irrationally inadmissible. And I'm really interested in what you have to answer to. All these years since 2004, Minister Primorac has been talking about how the programme was developed, will soon be referred to the procedure. Most of the youth, youngsters get sick. If they were young, maybe you'd break up. And these are the facts, the impenetrable facts. And as far as you're concerned about this problem as simply as possible, so fathers and mothers, the community requires the government to do something about it, and it's not a question of how to approach it at all. It is simply a request for responsible behavior, and someone should say so to that youth. It is unacceptable that in the 21st century you act as though we are living here today at a crossing between the 20th and the 19th centuries and we are closing the contract by 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28106	Thank you. Mr. Representative Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28107	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm not a medic, but I've been working with community programs long enough, I've had enough experience with community programs to say something about this program. First of all, you have probably all read that the objectives of this programme are to improve health care, health for solidarity and prosperity, and to create knowledge about health. These are general goals. The priorities of this programme are to protect citizens from threats to their health, improve healthy active ageing, and also overcome differences in the standard of this healthy active ageing between members of the European Union and the new members coming. So there is also one way in which Croatia may be able to use some funds. There is also co-operation between the health sector and cross-border cooperation for the benefit of patients, especially those living at the border of the state, and the fight against alcoholism, tobacco problems, drugs and knowledge exchange. In general, there are around 50m euros when you look at the programme annually. So, however we turn it around, Croatia is already because we are now one year late and there is the whole fund, the programme has been reduced by 50 million euros. Overall, projects are co-financed up to 60%. But what is crucial is that this fund has a document called the annual work plan, so it is brought on an annual level where it can be clearly seen how funds can be used from this programme, a co-financing system, a prescribed gender equality system, but now it follows the key thing why I think there will be major problems in withdrawing funds from this programme, and it will take us some time to withdraw concrete funds because the projects financed by this programme must show, so I will repeat the synergy with the results of projects financed from the seventh Framework Research Programme of the European Union. It is the largest European Union programme to be divided into four sub-programmes. Within one of them called cooperation is a health programme – a health program that weighs 6 billion euros and programs that will go from this, so projects that will go from this programme must show some synergy with the results of projects that are financed from the FP7 programme. From this part, this FP7 programme on health is financing projects that promote a healthy lifestyle, prevention of the treatment of the most common diseases, development of norms and standards of different treatments, research on rare diseases, etc. FP7 is crucial, so you have someone here internationally and even, of course, mandatory cross-sectoral cooperation in such projects. They are funded in terms of health biomedically, i.e. biotechnology projects and projects that develop certain technologies that can ultimately be applied in medicine. This means that we have co-operation, perhaps colleges, maybe institutes, but what Europe has maximum support for with this FP7 program and health is small and medium-sized enterprises like partners dealing with research within the health system. Now, if this Health Fund that we're discussing right now has to show synergy with these FP7 projects, and it's actually one of the key things that's going to be when we evaluate these projects, then the question is how many of these FP7 projects are being financed from the health programme. Now, that's my particular question to you, do you know, because according to the information available publicly for 2008, a few dozen projects have been reported, the results of the 12 months will show that the total for the whole... the programme has passed 4 projects and none are in medicine or any of them are related to health. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One is related to the magnetic resonance, but not to the needs of research in health care, but to the needs of research into the department of physics of the Zagreb PMF. Which is clear to you, then, and the answer to this particular question. I agree with my colleague Mrsic, while we do not have large quality projects from FP7, the question is how many projects we will have from this programme and to have more projects, so the answer is clear. We need to decentralize the contact points for the entire FP7 to every possible level. There must be more education for people in all possible institutions and in the private sector to apply as much as possible in order to end up getting money from this fund. Until that happens, I'm afraid that not only in 2008 will the lost 50 million euros, because the fund is not waiting for the state, it's related to the seven-year financial period, we're going in later and we're left with a total of less funds, so that's so clear, simple mathematics. So in 2008, the question is whether there will be anything, perhaps only the first projects in 2010, and everything lies only that people in all sectors should have been properly educated so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28108	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28109	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Mondekar, in your debate, you stressed that intersectoral cooperation is very important for this project and the withdrawal of money. In this project, the greatest importance is to justify projects that are tasked with increasing the quality of health care. Unfortunately, there is no cross-sectoral cooperation with us, but the Ministry of Health is in such a state that it has led to the full division of doctors within the system, so at this point we have chaos in primary health care, who is the main culprit of the ministry's ignorance of health change. I hope that at least this project that also exists within this cooperation agreement will withdraw money so that the ministry learns how to manage changes in the health system so that our citizens do not suffer the damage they currently have along with family medicine doctors.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28110	Answer, Mr. Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28111	Dear colleague, the basic thing about any community programme, any project is intersectoral, international co-operation. If the situation is the way it is in health care, and she is, and if we have one situation that we've had so far with some other community programmes such as the innovation and competitiveness programme that is turned to small entrepreneurs, and the only user so far has been only a state and so we've come down to miserable figures, miserable. We barely got back what we invested, and then the question is, are we going to be able to do with all these problems that you've caused, I'm going to put it back in at all, and then let's get more out of it?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28112	Thank you. And finally, Mr. Drazen Jurkovic, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28113	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. Here, I'll try to be very brief. At present, this debate has turned into perhaps a little debate about the public health system and the state of health as a whole. Namely, counterpart Miranda Mrsic is right, but only in part and in the smaller part. Namely, it is for public health care and the prevention of infectious diseases that only one and a small part of the activities of the Institute of Public Health and that is in the context of epidemiological activity. In addition to epidemiology, therefore, epidemiology itself deals with the prevention of chronic non-infectious diseases, and I would agree that this component is not sufficiently highlighted, but I would like to remind you that in the framework of the Institute of Public Health, systematic and school medicine that deals exclusively with prevention, thus preventing school children. So we separated curative and prevention and public health services only work to prevent and prevent programmes. I'd like to remind him that he's also doing microbiology departments. Also, prevention of mental health, outside hospital treatment of addiction and prevention of addiction. So that we have a whole network of these teams made up of psychiatrists and psychologists and nurses, and as for the implementation of preventive programmes, we are just preparing a change in public health teams. Therefore, their basic tasks will be the implementation of national preventive programmes. We will arrange 20 teams for the first 29 public health teams, for the first time this year as part of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute network and all preventive programmes that go from the national level, and I will remind you that there are now several. So, column cancer prevention, mom prevention, HIV prevention, and so on. So it's going to be carried out right through these teams. So, the Public Health Institute's task is far wider than you mentioned, but I quite agree with you that this segment of prevention of chronic non-infectious diseases should be much more pronounced. I think that the public health service network is the best that Croatian public health care has, and I think that it is the network and reputation of many countries in Europe, as well as the work of Croatian public health care, which ultimately shows outcomes, so the health outcome indicators where Croatia is investing 650 euros per capita somewhere in the G15 ranking countries, so countries that may be slightly weaker than those of the old members of the European Union or somewhere in the ranks of the current member states, so the newer members of the European Union, so Slovenia, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland and so on. So, I disagree, of course, that the public health situation is like that, and I would also not call public health institutions mastodons. You know that these are exactly public institutions that operate more than 70% on the market and also institutions that and whose financial operations are also quite solid. However, I consider it one of the healthiest parts of the Croatian health system. As for colleagues, Jovanovic's reform of the health system is carried out with the dynamics that are provided for in the legal provisions. So 95% of the planned parts of the reform are being implemented. True, there is a part of primary health care doctor part of the misunderstanding, but according to our reports, it goes all the way. I think every day understanding and in that segment is getting better. And be assured that during this year and this situation will be followed and resolved. I wouldn't be going into the analysis of that part of the reform now because I don't think it's a subject today, but the situation is certainly all before it's chaotic. However, the first indicators of the reform that the minister will present to the public these days are, I dare say, excellent. So, I dare use the word excellent, so the reform goes its course. As far as your comments in the section are concerned, they may agree, but I think that you are really too sharp in that area, although there is still work to prevent school children and this will primarily be the task of preventative teams of school medicine in public health institutions as well as new contract teams of public health that we are planning to set up this year in the Croatian public health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28114	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28115	Your Honor, Mr. President. I knew that Honorable colleague Jurkovic would refer to school medicine because it was the only thing that could be under some kind of a preventive action. However, school medicine is as imagined as 80% of its time is spent in the vaccination and conduct of mandatory examinations. If there were preventive actions, then our children shouldn't be as fat as they are, we shouldn't be underage pregnant. Therefore, in the end, you yourself said that school medicine should have done more prevention when you responded to my colleague Ingrid Marinovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28116	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met. 26. The final proposal for a Law on Confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the second programme of Community activities in the field of health in 2008/2013 was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 264. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final bill as I read it, P.Z.E. No. 264. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority of 111 votes in favour and 1 abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28119	Thank you. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary MPs, respected parliamentary representatives. In short, I will present to you the proposal for a law establishing a paying agency for agriculture, fisheries and rural development, with the final proposal for a law. The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development has been making significant efforts both in terms of strengthening the competitiveness of the agricultural sector and in terms of strengthening... the power and administrative capacity to use EU funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The adaptation of the agricultural policies of the candidate countries is a very complex process and one of the obligations of Croatia prior to the use of EU funds and before the entry itself is the establishment and accreditation of the paying agency as the national body responsible for the implementation and implementation of the measures of the common agricultural policy and the common fisheries policy. As part of the preparation for negotiations in Chapter 11 – Agriculture and Rural Development, one of the main tasks of the ministry is the establishment of the said paying agency and its administrative capacities and tools. In line with the 2009 EPPU, the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development is required by the end of the first quarter of this year to establish an Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, to adopt action plans for full establishment and implementation. Within the Ministry, there is an establishment unit of the Directorate for Market and Structural Support for Agriculture which, in accordance with the Agriculture Act, operationally implements market and structural support measures in agriculture. The interior regulation of the ministry also gave responsibility for the operational implementation of EU SAPARD pre-accession programmes, for which it was credited by the European Commission. The implementation of the aforementioned national support in agriculture on the ground is carried out with the help of the Office of the State Administration in the counties and offices of the body, the administrative body of the City of Zagreb and the Croatian... The center. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is important to stress that the abovementioned directory will be singled out according to this law to an independent agency with one central and... the regional office and remain under the responsibility of the ministry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The new organisation will unite the activities of the Directorate and the Office of State Administration in the county and administrative body of the City of Zagreb, and the agency will be established by law with which we propose as a public institution. Funding in the state budget has been provided for the establishment and operation in 2009. I repeat, it is very important to stress that until the entry into full membership of the European Union, the candidate country is obliged to establish and accredit an independent paying agency that will meet all the criteria set by the European Commission. Otherwise, the Member State will not be able to pay its support in agriculture, fisheries and rural development after its entry. We believe that by adopting this proposed law, we will allow Croatia to meet all the preconditions and that by joining the European Union it can withdraw funds from the funds, we are counting around 500 million euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28120	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28121	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. Agriculture has been and will be an economic branch producing quality food for the population and producing raw materials for industry and ensuring the processing of agricultural land. Agricultural policy should create conditions under which our agricultural production will become sustainable in the long term. Therefore, the strategic definition of our rural agricultural policy is the production of particularly valuable products and services that will ensure its survival on the global market. Although a few years ago it seemed that everything could be bought on the world market and that self-sufficiency in food production was not important, the latest developments related to the financial crisis and terrorism in the first plan of strategic interests put food security. If any important agricultural production is polluted or significantly reduced, the country becomes dependent on food imports. Therefore, Croatia should ensure at least 95% coverage of the need for basic food products from its own production. It is certain that the important segment in the achievement of self-sufficiency in agricultural production also has financial support in agriculture. When we talk about support, we should also mention the Agricultural Support Act. There is a new law in preparation that will finally underline a line that must not be crossed i.e. The financial limit for support in agriculture will be set for those large enterprises which have largely taken over most of the support budget in agriculture, i.e. for incentives, while for our agricultural family holdings which are registered in the register of 176 thousand or registered have remained, unfortunately, a small part of that cake. In fact, we have already changed this law on support in one segment according to our pre-election promise and according to an agreement that gives priority to the implementation of the rebirth of the Croatian village within which we have plotted to return the support in agriculture to every family economy, i.e. to return to every hectare and every throat. And I can say that in this way we managed to return 70,000 family economies to the support system, and that is also a prerequisite for the survival of Croatian villages. But very often, however, the question of the transparency of the support system in agriculture was raised and how to introduce control for the purpose of spending support. How to control agricultural support payments and of course how it will all reflect when Croatia enters the European Union. In order to resolve all these issues and dilemmas, we must pass this law that we are discussing today, i.e. it is necessary to set up a paying agency for agriculture, fisheries and rural development. I would like to mention one important fact that 3.2 billion kuna was paid in 2007 for support in agriculture. There is, of course, the number of payments related to drought on SAPARD's programmes. And in 2008 it was paid for the same purpose 3.4 billion kuna. We all agree that it is extremely important to have the exact information in which this money is transferred. It's also whether it's being spent, and that's why it's important to form this particular agency. This is, of course, our obligation and the basis of the negotiations because in Chapter 11 relating to agriculture and rural development, one of the basic tasks of the Ministry of Agriculture is the establishment of this mentioned paying agency and the establishment of its administrative capacities and tools. Today inside the ministry there is a Directorate for Market and Structural Support in Agriculture. This Directorate was formed by the Agricultural Act. Today, this principalship implements market and structural support measures, and the interior regulation of the Ministry has given competence to the directorship and to implement the SAPARD programme, the IPARD programme and the pre-accession programmes in which Croatia participates. And we have been accredited to these programmes by the European Commission. The implementation of national aid is carried out through several bodies, of course, when we talk about national aid in agriculture. And this is happening on the ground with the help of the Office of State Administration that are located in the county. Also in the administrative body of the City of Zagreb, and the Croatian cattle centre. It is important to stress that it is precisely the Directorate for Market and Structural Support in Agriculture that, through this law, it will be allocated to an independent agency with one central office and 21 regional offices. So the offices will be located in each county and will be under the jurisdiction of the agriculture ministry. In this new structure, the new organisation will bring together the affairs of the Directorate and the Office of State Administration in the Countys and the City of Zagreb. The Agency shall be established under the Law establishing the paying agency for agriculture, fisheries and rural development as a public institution. The funds are secured in the 2009 state budget. And what is extremely important is that until the entry into full membership of the European Union, the candidate country is obliged to establish and accredit an independent paying agency that will meet all the criteria set by the European Commission, because otherwise, in the opposite Member State, it will not be able to pay its support in agriculture, fisheries and rural development. So, this agency is extremely important not only for the present moment for all the reasons that I have listed, but also for Croatia's entry into the European Union, because of course we want to help our agricultural producers and pay them back, and when we become a full member of the European Union. In order to improve the text, HSS and HDZ clubs also addressed several amendments to the proposed law. I hope the Proposer accepts that. They are more of a no-technical nature, and the club of representatives of the HSS will certainly support the establishment of a paying agency in agriculture, fisheries and rural development and the adoption of laws that regulate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28122	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28123	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. To begin by agreeing that agriculture and food is really important if not a crucial strategic part in every national policy, especially for Croatia. But that's not enough just to say, it should be confirmed by works. Well, now that we're talking about it, this is how I'm gonna start. After the Golf Law which raised golf courses to the level of interest of the Republic of Croatia, then the Agricultural Land Act where administrative measures, rather than economically question property and other ownership rights, then the center, we have the Law on the Centre for Economic Development in Agriculture, and the Law on the Agriculture Payments Agency. In the end, I would be cynical, so I would say that the Law on the Centre for Lifetime, or Lifelong Maintenance of Peasant Agricultural Households is passed. In fact, if we don't discuss our relationship to agriculture and food as a strategic definition now, it's a matter that's different and more important than an ad hoc debate about it. I will only define myself on the text of the law. But even in order for this text to be accepted, I will remember one wisdom, that more trust brings about about stupidity or naivety, and at the same time more untrust always causes misfortune, so I will bow to this first part. I will give faith and trust in this law to come to the same. Why? Because the law in the first article says that a public institution is established, but it does not say whether it is a profit or a nonprofit. Since the Law on Institutions in Article 1 states which institutions can establish education, education, science, culture, information, sport, physical culture, technical culture, child care, health care, social care, people with disabilities. These are all institutions that are tax-based activities and they are definitely all non-profits. And then you can add other activities, if you do not carry out the activity to gain profits. Therefore, it must be entered whether it is a winning facility or something else, and then it must be registered under special law and registration. But let's move on. So, the agency is founded by the Republic of Croatia, because the law establishes the parliament. However, the founding rights will not be realised by the government of the Republic of Croatia, although the government is responsible for Parliament. I think it's Article 114. The first paragraph states that the government is responsible for Parliament, but the promoter, therefore, waives that fundamental right in favour of the ministry, or the minister. Now we'll see why the minister, from the following articles. At the same time, the proposer in the basic text, meaning in what we have received as a proposal, states Article 3 of the Agency's activity and within this activity there are many relevant public powers. However, the legislator does not find it necessary to state who will exercise control over these public powers. All corrections to these allegations will be unnecessary and infertile, for they also see it correct in their amendments. This is following a difficult and serious debate on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system following the enormous warnings of experts in the field of public law, the Constitutional Law has been corrected not for formal reasons but for the essential reasons of this text. How does the Proposer foresee this? The internal structure will be determined by the statute, but please kindly at the statutes will give its consent to the minister. The minister may make and propose who will be the director, or appoint the director and deputy, but he will not resolve it, but only on his proposal. So we went into the scissors to want something, but we won't solve it until the end. And related to Article 1 to establish the Agency as an institution and not to say whether it is profitable or non-profit, and then in Article 5 of the basic text, it is said that the Agency acquires funds to carry out its activities from the state budget, but also in another way. That's another way of making money. Or write it down. In another way, it doesn't mean SAPHARD, it means otherwise. I'm sorry, that means otherwise. It is also added that the establishment of the agency sets out a certain amount of money from the state budget, although it is already a formed department in the current ministry. So it's about reshaping. Since it's already been said here that it's a department from the ministry that's going to get the status of the agency. As far as this is concerned, the Act on the Part-Corruption and Jurisdiction of the Ministrys should also be amended, because this is affecting the delirious and jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, etc. In Article 7, it is interesting further, the Agency is managed by the Administrative Council, but the President of the Governing Council is appointed by the Government, and by the position of the Minister responsible for Agriculture. Imagine how much freedom the government has given itself to decide that the law requires it to appoint a minister for the President of the Governing Council. So the whole purpose of this basic text is to allow the minister to single out one department from his ministry and tell Europe we have singled out a department and it is called an agency that will monitor and implement support and award measures, in accordance with European standards, but it will not be an independent agency, but it will be my agency, Minister of Agriculture. Of course, I now have these amendments that the representative of the esteemed Mariana Petir spoke of. It seems quite different now, but it's not how it qualified them nomotechnically, but essentially amendments to the basic text. But if I no longer really analyze the basic text of the bill, it is significantly improved with amendments that we have not only from the HSS club, but from the HDZ but from others, so I think that the Government will, in the name of reason and respect for the Croatian Parliament, and most respect for the Constitution, take a good look at and accept these amendments. In the end, let me just say, the argument that it is the harmonisation or the requirements of the European Union for the establishment of the Agency and that we are harmonising our legislation with the legislation of the European Union does not hold water, because simply in the text of the law there is no common P.Z.E. It's a law that regulates how we want to settle things inside our house. So, the fully autonomous will of the Croatian Parliament is that this issue will be settled. What's the big deal? It is important that it is fully transparent how funds are used, that there is no abuse and that the European Union can also control it. That's all that matters. And speaking of agencies and when we want to boast about the agencies then and this proposal was on the Committee on the Constitution, it is time for Croatia to pass a law on agencies like we have the Law on Institutions, to know what their position, which is the task, is at least within the basic frameworks. So why did I tell you at first about trust and mistrust? Of course, the Social Democratic Party Club of Croatia has a good intention of entering the European Union and harmonising our legislation, not only of legislation but of implementing the law in the Republic of Croatia, as is happening in the European Union. So for this reason, for reasons of trust, we will vote in favour of this bill the more colleagues and colleagues, and even clubs, have seen all the shortcomings, shortcomings, and even say abuse in the responsibility of the motionor. Let us not forget that the promoter has sometimes more responsibility than MPs in the Assembly, because he is simply an expert person and responsible for the proposal. I'm done. We'll vote, but really after you intervened with the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28124	Thank you. We have one correction, Mrs. Mariana Petyr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28125	Your Honor, Mr. President. A colleague, Leko, said in his opening address that the Law on Agricultural Land raises the issue of property. This is not true, because the Law on Agricultural Land adopted by the Croatian Parliament introduces order in the management of raw agricultural land and places land in the food production function. He also said it is necessary to amend the Law on the Part-Corruption of Ministries by establishing this agency. This is not true, because the Internal Design Regulation decides to set up a Directorate, and therefore it will be sufficient to amend the Regulation itself. And also, as already mentioned, he himself said in the end, amendments were corrected by the basic text of the law relating to the powers of the Minister, the Government and the Governing Council, and in that sense this law is acceptable, as you said, to your club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28126	On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28127	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It's simple, when we talk about this bill, I first need to say that I'm glad to talk behind my colleagues, Lek, because there's so much I don't have to say anymore. But what I can say, quite certainly, is that it is a fact and it is obvious that both the Golf and the Law on Agricultural Land and this proposal, the way in which these and the necessary interventions are written through the amendments, that in particular this legislative proposal of the Committee on Law, we should thank it, too, that we have the opportunity to vote positively on this legislative proposal, because I believe that, consequently, these amendments that we received five minutes ago in front of the HDZ and HSS clubs are the consequence of the Committee on Legislatives and Objections to the Committee on Legislatives. But what's a fact and what's an undisputed fact, which is that certain stakeholders take the right to arrange certain areas in this country. That's a fact. Because giving yourself as much authority as it is given, tells everything about yourself. He talks about the need, he talks about the essence, he talks about the goal, and ultimately he talks about the intention. And right now, I want to remind all of you that our imports, the value of our imports of agricultural products, are $2 and a half billion. And I also agree with the crisis, recession, although there is still no recession in Croatia, that is our happiness, only if it were true. And the price and the course, it's all true, but the fact is that according to some calculations, 15 family economies disappear every day. That's a fact. Is it 15, whether it's 5 or 1, it doesn't matter at all, and when it's 1 it's too much. So I definitely don't think it's correct, it's not right to abuse the general interest in your own promotion, for your own possibility in the control of the system, and it's not by chance that in a series of laws, starting with the Golf Act and all others to the final and this bill, it's not correct, it's not fair and it's not good for the general good that legislative proposals come into this assembly and what's worst to vote on one maximum control of the majority. Let's remember the Golf Act, remember the Agricultural Land Act. When we talk about the Proposal for a Law establishing a Payment Agency for Agriculture, Fisheries, the rural development of the Croatian People's Party club will support it after these interventions by HDZ and HSS clubs. We'll support him for two basic reasons. First, because it is in a system of harmonisation with European Union legislation. Second, it is particularly important to introduce one control system. However, the elements for the implementation of this control system are still far away and in this very legislative proposal we could read in several elements. But to go that way, that's good. Surely it is good when we talk about funds from pre-accession funds and later from access funds, because the fact is and it is known, and we had this case that the European Union blocked us from using the funds, that it gave us fingers because some of ours didn't know how to work with their fingers correctly. Therefore, in this part, and huge funds and huge money go into these incentives for agriculture completely justified, it is only a pity that for each kuna incentives are not cost-efficient analysis. Because with this kind of data that we're tracking year by year with import growth, with a smaller and smaller number of agricultural holdings, with growing and larger surfaces unprocessed. And I'm telling you that our peasants, our people, our natives are not lazy at least for their Zagorjes, but I believe every one of you for your own. But there's something wrong with the system. Why does he invest 100 when he's working the country and he gets 60? Why? Therefore, the problem is the system. That this agency will make a contribution to this system, I am sure and I am convinced, I repeat not so much for us as because of the whole system on which the European Union rests and functions. In the negotiating positions of the Republic of Croatia for the Intergovernmental Conference on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, Chapter 11. – Agriculture, rural development defined that Croatia does not have a paying agency. However, Croatia has the basis of the Agriculture Law of the Directorate for Market and Structural Support in Agriculture with all the elements we have already heard today. There's no need to repeat it, and this bill also says it. Therefore, we have one system which is not as prescribed by the European Union by the 2006 Regulation and by the Council Regulation of 2005 but which is why we have something else. The Council of Europe has also laid down an integrated administrative and control system and has been defined in the negotiating positions that Croatia does not have an integrated administrative and control system fully in line with the 2003 Council of Europe and the Commission Regulation of 2004. I repeat 2003 and 2004. It's 2009. The administrative and control system shall be fully consistent. We're hoping to get that soon, but I just don't want to believe that we don't have it because at some point it didn't work out. Surely we are looking forward to the initiative that was promised long ago to talk about differentiated support. Happy is this initiative that we have heard today from all of my colleague Petir to go through this bill, happy definitely, and surely our agricultural producers are looking forward to it. When we talk about this integrated administrative control system, I just want to say a few things that are an integral part of it. We got some of that. This is the register of the holding, the land ownership data entered in that register of the holding. But when we talk about land ownership data, we know that we have a certain kind of support per hectare, and we also know there have been conversations, there have even been some applications to the state's attorney's office. However, we do not know which, as well as many other things, we do not know what the consequence of these reports was, that certain agricultural entities, regardless of whether a legal person or a natural person received large funds from support based on allegedly wrong-listed areas or registered areas. The implementation of the production incentive model shall consist of or be carried out through the following elements. It is a computer database, an identification system for agricultural land particles, a system for the labelling and registration of domestic animals, a request for incentives and a control system. It's something we have. However, the agricultural land particles identification system is based on data from the catastra land of the Republic of Croatia. How's our cadastre? It is true that a project is under way to establish a system for the identification of land particles is written in the law at 6 locations, the pilot project. What are the results, though, we don't know it, but I think that information should be given to at least the professional public. And we hope for the good ending of this pilot and project and the introduction of that system. And these other parts that are included through the Croatian cattle centre and through the offices of the state administration, which will now enter the system of paying agencies in agriculture, fisheries and rural development. And final. The fact is and often times in discussions we had to say this not because we politicise, but simply with the basis of the data we have and the overall state of agricultural production that year by year imports are growing. It's just that the fact that imports are growing, that more and more of the land we have in the unprocessable surfaces is saying that the system isn't working. Therefore, we bring a whole series of legislative proposals to a purely fire-type, various measures, and definitely agricultural policy is about the complete absence of a more serious, broad and long-term programme to preserve the life of the village. And now my question is to the secretary of state again. The 2002 Agriculture Act defines a legal obligation to discuss a green report in this Parliament. It's a legal obligation since 2002. Neither Minister Pankretic in the coalition government nor Minister Cobankovic in the HDZ government nor Minister Pankretic in this government, therefore twice, and he is the author of the provision in the law, he is the author of the 2002 law. They simply didn't give us a chance to discuss in Parliament the state of agriculture in our country. Is that information, the other day we had an argument and the Secretary of State tells me the information is not correct. I'll allow it, but let's see which data is correct. And that's what it's so-called. Green report. And I think if we had discussed, if we had a chance to discuss that green report, I think it would be a lot clearer, but believe me, we would all together, believe that we would all get along quickly because there's no big difference. There are 4, 5 measures, the thing is very simple. And we wouldn't be in a situation where we're completely justifiably contesting something that's wrongly proposed. The fact that this legislative proposal for the intervention of the HDZ and HSS Committee of Legislative and Intervention Clubs is being obtained in the form that we have here, we can accept, regardless of what we consider necessary and necessary in the overall infrastructure of agricultural production. The Croatian People's Party club will support this bill for the reasons I have cited, and we hope that this bill will not have its fire nature in its application as many others do. If it will not already benefit farmers, but at least in that control function, I think we will have the opportunity to monitor and intervene in situations where the need arises, and often we are in this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28128	Thank you. There's one correction, Mrs. Mariana Petrir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28129	Your Honor, Mr. President. In his presentation, counterpart Koračević said, quote, "some stakeholders give themselves authority through this law." This is not an exact allegation because through the law itself it is fully visible that it wants to establish a transparent system that through this law does not want to be covered up, but rather the opposite that it wants to make everyone available and show how to pay and establish a system of control of this payment of support in agriculture. He also pointed out that 15 family economies disappear daily in Croatia. Fortunately, this claim is not true because according to the information I have and which I have presented and in my presentation, we have returned 70,000 family economies to the support system by amending the Support Act, and otherwise 176,000 027 were registered to the register, and they have over a million hectares of land in their possession reported to be processed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28130	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Branko Boxti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28131	Mr. President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. The structure established in the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of agricultural affairs consists of a body of state administration and officials appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with certain obligations and responsibilities. First of all, we stress that the Ministry, as a body of state administration, organises work in the field of support for national measures and measures of pre-accession programmes of the European Union, while intertwining the functions of leaders, bodies and officials responsible for the certification responsible for the overall financial management of pre-accession funds. As part of the strategy for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, one of the most important steps is to use pre-accession aid programmes both for the agricultural food sector and for the development of rural areas. With regard to the responsibility of the agricultural sector, the Republic of Croatia has been given the opportunity to use funds intended under the SAPARD programme. The basis for the use of the SAPARD programme is a plan for agriculture and rural development for 2005 and 2006 which was developed by the Republic of Croatia and adopted by the European Commission and a multiannual financing agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia, which was signed and confirmed in the Croatian Parliament. In order to be able to implement the SAPARD programme operationally and thus to allocate the resources provided in the budget of the European Union and the Republic of Croatia, it was necessary to have a decision on the transfer of powers and the management of funds by the European Commission. To this end, the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, had to meet the demanding criteria according to both national accreditation and European Commission accreditation. Almost in a similar way, another pre-accession programme called IPA was launched in the Republic of Croatia, and for its successful implementation it was also necessary to repeat the steps described as well as for the SAPARD programme. Since the very beginning of cooperation with the authorities of the Republic of Croatia, the European Commission has stressed and demanded the independence of certain functions, expressing itself in the findings and recommendations of the annual and half-yearly reports, and in particular by increasing communication recently due to the slow entry of the Republic of Croatia into full membership of the European Union, the results have been that in terms of jurisdiction we have derived from pre-accession programmes operations not so long ago two independent institutions. The Central Agency for Finance and Negotiation and the Agency for the Audit of the System of Implementation of the European Union Programme. Jobs related to the support of national measures and measures stemming from pre-accession programmes in the framework of agriculture and rural development in the Republic of Croatia shall be carried out operationally by the establishment unit within the ministry called the Directorate for Market and Structural Support in Agriculture. In this part, the European Commission has been very clear and defined and has also pointed out in its reports the need to establish an independent paying agency. This proposal proposes the establishment of the Agency as a public institution for the operational implementation of market and structural support measures in agriculture, fisheries and rural development. The founder of the agency is the Republic of Croatia, and the founding rights and duties on behalf of the founders are carried out by the ministry responsible for agriculture. The Agency shall operate through central offices and branches in units of regional self-government. The Agency's activity is the operational implementation of market and structural support measures in agriculture, the implementation of the international support programme, the payment and supervision of the implementation of the programmes and measures and the implementation of controls on the ground. The Croatian Democratic Community club will vote to pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28132	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDSS club, Ratko Gajica is missing. An individual debate. The first is Mr. Dragutin Lesar. He's not here either. Then Mr. Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28133	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I am truly happy today, so I can say a happy man because we are discussing a law that will also be a formal legal basis for the final adoption of the actual establishment and establishment of a paying agency in the Republic of Croatia, so an extremely important institution for the agricultural sector of the Republic of Croatia. Why am I saying that? I am speaking for this reason because in the past term of the Government of the Republic of Croatia I worked at the Ministry of Agriculture as an assistant minister. Namely, I was headed by one of 11 administrative units then at the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, which was also called the Directorate for Market and Structural Support in Agriculture, which, in addition to the administrative structures for the implementation of national support models, are in line with the Law on Support in Agriculture of Accommodation and Administrative Structures for the implementation of the specific pre-accession programme for agriculture and rural development of SAPARD, respectively. So I was personally involved in all activities related to the establishment of the Agency and the establishment of a system for the implementation of the SAPARD programme from those preparatory programmes to those at the outset of the national and finalisation of European accreditation, which the European Commission has confirmed to us that we are able, ready to implement the SAPARD programme on our own, or to make payments from the SAPARD Fund. This was confirmed by the decision to transfer the power to manage the SAPARD programme or SAPARD funds. It should be pointed out that the Republic of Croatia has taken at least time to compete with all new members of the European Union to come to the decision on the delegation of powers to the Republic of Croatia. It should also be said that the funds used through the SAPARD programme and projects agreed through the SAPARD programme if we take into account the time left for the Republic of Croatia to establish this system truly at an envious level. I also want to say how proud I am that, together with the officials of the Directorate for Market and Structural Support, I have been involved in the construction of such a system and, unlike some colleagues here in the Assembly, I am the only one who can give all the praises to the directors and officials of the Ministry for what they did in the previous period because this very conscious, responsible and professional work has allowed today or tomorrow the Directorate for Market and Structural Support to rise without any major difficulties in the paying agency, which is the most recent and final objective of this bill. I will say just a few more sentences so that we can understand how demanding work is to build efficient administrative infrastructure or institutional adjustment operations because this is an institutional adjustment to the European Union, which I personally consider to be a much more demanding job than a formal legal and legislative adjustment. So I'm going to tell you a few basics, I think you'll understand from that. The Directorate for Market and Structural Support had a total of 15 employees in early 2005. After the establishment of all structures, procedures, procurement of equipment, etc. In 2006, in the second half of 2006, a total of 100 employees were in the Directorate for Market and Structural Support. You can think about setting up those formal procedures, procedures, tools, etc. It's a really demanding job. Today we see from this opening argument with the law that it has gone much further, that today they have practically fully obtained the conditions to go towards the establishment of the SAPARD agency and for this very reason I think that this law should be fully supported. And finally, what we all need to be aware of together is the fact that the Republic of Croatia must also provide institutional administrative assumptions for the withdrawal of funds from the European budget before it starts using funds from the European Union's Structural Funds or before it becomes a full member of the European Union. Therefore, our farmers, when the Republic of Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union, could benefit from the European Union's budget for agriculture, fisheries and rural areas, need to establish and accreditation of the paying agency as the national body responsible for implementing and implementing the measures of the common agricultural policy and the common fisheries policy of the European Union. So I think it's completely unquestionable whether to give your vote for a law like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28134	Thank you. We have one replica of Mr. Agent Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28135	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I will replicate as much as I will express hope that the agency will finally help here after these three rounds and 36 projects agreed in which one of the Vukovar-Srijem County is, unfortunately only one, and this one is not for the development of agriculture but for the Animal Waste Collection Center. So, since we have a number of offices in Vukovar-Srijem County by the municipalities of Tovarnik, Lovas, Germans, Tompojevci etc. Unfortunately, we don't have a development agency that's included that finally here we will experience when we're not here for a minister who's been from our county to manage to realize something through the SAPARD that now through the new minister's mandate we're finally going to succeed. Here, I hope this agency helps.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28136	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28137	I'm glad my colleague's replicated this exhibit of mine. But dear fellow, I think you should know what the rules are when it comes to such institutions. Therefore, such institutions have just been established in the European Union and are also established in all future members of the European Union for the reason that there would be no abuse and that someone would not comment in such a way that only one project has been passed in Vukovar-Srijem County. You know how much activities have been done in terms of presenting, say, the SAPARD program, in terms of education of our potential users of the SAPARD program. However, if there were not enough projects from a particular county that could meet all those criteria required by the SAPARD procedures, then unfortunately such projects could not have passed. As for the amount of funds used to assess whether much or little funds have been used in the Republic of Croatia from some programme you must know our environment. We, if we compete with all the new members who have entered the European Union, who have had to use this programme for almost seven years, unlike the Republic of Croatia who was two years old. Our level of exploitation of these funds is and is now already at their level and there is another fourth round to use the SAPARD program. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28138	Thank you. Mr. Representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28139	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. I would first of all like to say that I will support this law, but I would like to talk about it from another point of view from my colleagues who have discussed it so far. In this regard, since the agency will deal with the payments of incentives and fees in agriculture, money that is extremely important to agricultural producers, which they are practically dependent on. We must be aware that from the moment this agency operates, all the dissatisfaction of farmers in the event of late payment as it has been so far, I hope that they will not be directed towards the director of the agency in the future. Therefore, the director of the agency will be the person to whom all the arrows of dissatisfaction of agricultural producers who usually come not because they do not know what they would do but because of the need to modernise their own production in large credit responsibilities, they did not have practical opportunities to provide guarantees for the loans they had raised, but they put mortgages on their own assets. That is why they are extremely sensitive to late payment of incentives and compensation. For this reason, I also appeal to be taken into account and to ensure that this agency has the necessary resources for all payments made by law and obligation to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28140	Thank you. And finally as the last lady representative of Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28141	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I'm really gonna cut this debate short, since we've been here a long time. Using European Union programmes, I will also mention CARDS, PARD, ISPA, INTERNEC, Republic of Croatia, as well as units of local and regional self-government have created significant capacities for the preparation and prose of projects that are now available to us but also those that will stand for us tomorrow. Thus, using a special pre-accession programme for agriculture and rural development, the Republic of Croatia deserves a decision to transfer management powers by the European Commission. The Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development had to meet the extremely demanding criteria both according to national accreditation and the accreditation of the European Commission. And that the local and regional level is ready to speak and an example of the withdrawal of funds from the SPAARD programme in the Zadar County where two projects with the maximum amount were agreed. The first project refers to the processing of milk with a total value of €24.6 million, and 10 million of which are guaranteed from the SAPARD programme. The second project refers to the processing of fish, the building of a capacity of 45.5 million kuna, and the resources of SAPARDA are 10 million kuna. Only these two projects will make the Zadar County agricultural sector more competitive and efficient, but also create new jobs in the island of Pag and also the town of Bekovac and Stankovac. Through the cooperation of the authorities of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on available programmes and the preparation of the Republic of Croatia for the European Union, the need for greater independence of certain functions has been seen to make the implementation of the programmes available today and in the future easier and better quality. This established a set of funding and negotiation units and for the revision of the programme's implementation system. Since the Directorate for Market and Structural Support in Agriculture has been qualified, and the European Commission has confirmed this by just transferring the authorisation powers to request, control and payment of the SAPARD and IPARD programmes mentioned here are being implemented on the basis of a centralised system, I believe that it is time for this very directory to grow into a new agency. It is this proposal of the Law establishing a paying agency in agriculture, fisheries and rural development that creates basic assumptions and I will therefore support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28142	Thank you. And in the name of the proposer, Mr. Queenichk. A replica. I didn't notice, so I apologize. Although I am very happy to look that way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28143	Thank you, Mr. President, for turning your eyes on us here and seeing us like that. Here's a little replica. So it's not important for this law to hire new people at the agency. So it's necessary and it'll need to do, but it's always the administration most. It's important that these people be in the service of new employment, but it's not going to happen by law. But what's important is that this law happens when an agency is set up. So these payments are actually done the way countries are doing that are successfully fighting corruption. So it doesn't happen that otherwise payments with the state happen that they're not mostly regular, that someone gets, that someone doesn't get, that someone gets the same incentives, but someone doesn't get the same incentives. So then there's an unsanitary hot bar for suspicion of corruption, even if there's a lot less of it than people say. So it's important when the agency is established that these payments go on a regular basis, not to go on dating basis, but to go on as well as the purpose and work to perform the agency equally.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28144	Thank you. Mrs. Marinovic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28145	Thank you. I didn't say first that hiring people was the point. I really didn't say that, but I finally said that the point of this law is that it creates quality assumptions that payments are okay. And that's why I'm going to support this law. And what you said wasn't me.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28146	Thank you. Lastly, on behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Josip Kraljičković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28147	Honorable parliamentary representatives and parliamentary MPs. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I would like to thank you on behalf of the promoter for a very good and useful debate and for the confidence that you have shown by proposing to vote in favour of this bill. I need to say a few sentences that I'm saying will make the law itself even clearer. When Croatia joins the European Union, it implements a common European agricultural policy. No more of your own. In order for her to do that, she has to have a paying agency. As we enter the European Union, we stop all our payments and there are no more. No one can pay, but only that agency, and that agency is supervised, controlled, first accredited by the European Commission and supervised by it. There's no doubt at all that anyone is working for the interests of their... I'm completely irrational to think that way, so that's how I'm surprised that I felt it in some discussions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The component of this agency is the integrated administrative control system and it is being introduced for years, and it is required to implement the common European policy. Not for today. It consists of a lot of components. We have established it for years and it will hopefully be established and it must be established as an agency by 1.1.2011 and 31.12.2010, respectively. So there were no doubts about why, of course, the most important part of that system and it's the most difficult of all. the elpis of the land particles information systems. Today, an orthophoto was taken in Croatia around... the Croatian surface. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There'll be 60% of the rest soon. It's all got to be handled. That's one demanding... There's going to be that part... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's over. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So all the work that's done is for the purpose of transparency, for the purpose of... accreditation and implementation of agricultural policy measures, which will be later when we talk about European agricultural policy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In our establishment, we must say this system and the draft of this law, they have helped and are helping foreign consultants who have been paid out of pre-accession programmes which we have also provided as a government, i.e. as a state, and have received funds from the European Union. We believe it's also the ability to get the funds, free of charge. They are also embedded in this law and property of the European Union and their examples, and we believe that this law is very well-conceived and with these amendments that we will vote on tomorrow, that it will be further improved and that we will have a very good basis for setting up an effective and hopeful agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28148	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll probably vote tomorrow. We will now interrupt the session and continue at 9:30 in the morning with the agenda, with the agenda item Final proposal of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber Act, so please be there at 9:30, so when we finish that item then we will proceed with the vote and then go to these cold days on a deserved weekend. Thank you very much. The final draft law establishing the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 270th Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The review of the amendment was submitted to the benches. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be made aware of the proposed amendments. State Secretary Josip Kraljičković. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28150	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28151	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 2. The Committee on Legislatives shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and in the
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28152	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28153	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 3. Representatives of Dragica Zgrebec on Article 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28154	It's already partially accepted in the previous, so it's not necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28155	So, it's been accepted previously, so Madam Representative is withdrawing this amendment. 4. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28156	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28157	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. And the 5th Amendment of Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28158	It's accepted. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28159	He's retreating. We still have the Club of Representatives of HSS and HDZ on the 6th Amendment to Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28160	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28161	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 7th Representative Dragica Zgrebec in Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28162	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28163	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 8. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the Commission in accordance with
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28164	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28165	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Nine. The club of the representatives of the HSS and the Club of Representatives of the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28166	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-19-0.u28167	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Thank you. I am voting on the final draft law establishing a paying agency for agriculture, fisheries and rural development. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The law was adopted by a majority of 103 votes in favour and six abstentions along with the amendments adopted.
