ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33369	Now, as I have announced, we move to the first point of today's agenda, it is - The final draft law on amendments and additions to the Labour Protection Act, it is an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 340 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Labour and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislatives Committee and MP Ljubica Lukačić. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Ms Tamara Obradović Mazal, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33370	... The Government shall refer the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Protection Act on Work that we amend in the context of Chapter 19. - Social policy and employment. [[Speech is not enabled.]] Following the preliminary assessment by the European Commission of the compliance of this law with the relevant acquis in the subsequent assessment of compliance this year, it was found that further clarification should be made, i.e. the European Commission pointed out additional requirements in relation to the criteria for achieving the full compliance of this law, but in the context of meeting the criteria for that negotiating chapter 19. - Social policy and employment. According to further clarifications and requests from the representatives of the European Commission, what we had to do further is redefine, i.e. further clarify some of the legal institutes previously installed, and in this regard we intervened in the existing law in the field of legal order so far, and related to the procedures for notifying, consulting and co-decision of workers in the matter of labour protection and thus achieved full compliance with Council Directive 391 of '89. the year relating to the introduction of incentive measures to improve health and safety of work. The changes covered by the amendments in question and the additions to the laws first concern the obligation to implement preventive measures on health protection at work at all levels of management as well as in all work processes, while stating the employer's obligation to take care of his or her abilities, which, of course, might affect the employee's safety and health when trusting the employee's tasks. We have also further highlighted the objective of preventive measures aimed at reducing or preventing harmful effects on the life and health of employees, and in this regard it is necessary to establish the right of absolutely all workers and not only those working on jobs with special working conditions, meaning with particularly difficult working conditions. This right is defined or proposed that, at certain times, employees have the right to seek medical examination in order to assess the possible impact of working conditions on their health. Accordingly, employees who are not currently covered by the obligation to carry out regular health checks under specific rules will be allowed to carry out a health check within a period of three years not at the expense of the employer in the competent health care service of the work, of course, in the light of the evaluations and the conditions of work and operations in which they carry out their regular business activities. Also, what we propose is that each employer secures the work in a safe way regardless of the number of workers currently in existence in the company or in the employer, and we have introduced a new provision that requires the obligation of each employer to have one worker in charge of performing job protection at work. It shall also establish the conditions to be met by that worker. In this regard, we have redefine the possibility of the employer that job protection can be negotiated with a natural or legal person who is authorised to do these jobs in those cases where he cannot provide them in his own company or because of the lack of employees with the necessary skills and abilities to carry them out. This provision was often interpreted in a way that the employer could always entrust these tasks to the person authorised to carry out work protection tasks. We are also explaining the process of informing workers of all issues in the field of labour protection which, of course, is aimed at raising the quality of the status of protection at work and in this segment, the employer of the sea and, in this respect, what we propose is to keep employees informed on all issues which may affect the level of health protection at work or the employee's safety, and in this respect, a detailed commitment or a hodogram of the employer in the field of informing workers about the level of work protection and any circumstances which may affect the current situation of the safety and health of employees. We have also redefined the Institute of Risk Assessment for the Life and Health of Workers at Work and, of course, in order to prevent injuries and diseases which should be a lasting process and obliges every employer. In this regard, we propose that the employer continuously monitors the changes, changes in the work process in its own company or at the workplace, and assesses the continued potential dangers that these changes can potentially cause. It is also somewhat more precisely regulated obligations and rights in the field of liability for damages that a worker could suffer due to injury or illness in connection with work, in such a way that the employer responds according to the principle of objective responsibility and can be removed or reduced if it is determined that events resulting from extraordinary and unpredictable circumstances or more force could not be affected by either the employer or the worker. We have also further regulated the area of taking the necessary special measures to protect against fire, rescue and provide medical assistance in a way that obliges the employer to define, determine in the ranks the employees of that employee who will be in charge of implementing specific measures and ensuring the call and treatment of public services responsible for fire protection, rescue and medical assistance. What's important is what we've been studying in the form of a proposed norm is also the circumstance that a worker who, in the event of serious and immediate danger, ad hoc leaves his post. As a result, it must not suffer adverse consequences, therefore it must not suffer adverse consequences, such as an extraordinary failure or one of the forms of disciplinary measures or should not be put into a more unfavourable position if, in the assessment of the estimated direct danger to life and health, it leaves its place of work. Finally, in accordance with the conclusion of this House on the need to regulate recognition and awards, we have prescribed the possibility of awarding or recognition in order to promote health protection and safety at work, which will be arranged by the Minister responsible for the work through a more detailed sublegal implementing regulation. Finally, I would like to thank all the committees for the debate, as well as the representatives of Lukacic, for the reference in the law itself and for the amendments submitted that will contribute to better legal expression and the quality of this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33371	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership Mr. Representative Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33372	President-in-Office, proposing representatives, fellow MPs. The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership at the 24th session held on 4 June discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Protection Act. In the opening presentation of the proposing representatives, he met the Committee with the basic features of this law on improving the protection of health and safety of workers, strengthening the responsibility of the employer in ensuring the working conditions in a safe way, and with the stated objective of preventive activities and measures that will reduce or prevent adverse effects on the health of workers, so the main elements of these amendments and the addition of the laws are. The Committee members supported the adoption of this law, which improves and improves the safety and protection of health at work of workers. Also, the debate noted that the introduction of so-called targeted medical examinations during certain periods of time to which all workers, not only those working with special working conditions, are entitled under this proposal, to contribute to improving the general health situation and ultimately to reducing the cost of living. After the debate, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33373	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33374	President-in-Office, proposing representatives, fellow MPs. In the context of the pre-accession activities of the Republic of Croatia Amendments to the Labour Protection Act have been proposed to join the European Union in order to fully comply with the Council Directive of the European Economic Community, i.e. with the legal acquis of the European Union. This legislative proposal gives rise to assumptions for meeting the criteria for the temporary closure of Chapter 19. "Social policy and employment", as well as ensuring a more effective system of health and safety at work. Certain obligations and responsibilities of the employer in the field of work protection and the conditions to be met by persons in charge of protection at work are more precise. There is also an additional emphasis on the purpose of this law, i.e. prevention of health protection at work. In this respect, the right of all workers, not only those working on jobs with special working conditions, is regulated that they have the right to request a medical examination at certain times to assess the possible impact, the working conditions on their health. Accordingly, workers who are not covered by the obligation of regular health checks under a special regulation have the right to request such preventive medical examination within a period of three years. Furthermore, there is an additionally regulated way in which employers are obliged to organise and implement protection at work. In this respect, it is now prescribed that each employer must have a person in charge of carrying out work protection activities, and on the other hand, it is prescribed that workers should have the right to have, regardless of their size, the number of employees may have a labour protection commissioner. Respecting the need to ensure that all employers, regardless of whether they have or do not have jobs with special working conditions, are also subject to the employer's duty to continuously assess the danger and harmfulness of working conditions on health and safety of workers. They are obliged to draw up and hold a risk assessment and monitor it, and, where appropriate, amend certain conditions and change their numbers regardless of why they will now be able to make that assessment themselves. In addition, the duties of the employer and workers in the area of exceptional circumstances are specified, i.e. in the case of direct threats in the area of first aid, as well as fire-fighting and rescue. It is also an additionally regulated area of responsibility of the employer for possible damage to the worker, which is now fully horizontally in line with the principles of mandatory law. In order to promote and strengthen an independent bipartite social dialogue in the field of protection of workers' safety and health, it is further regulated and harmonised with labour legislation in the field of intelligence, consultation and proportionate co-operation in the field of protection at work, and in this direction the powers of the labour commissioners are extended. In addition to harmonisation of the law, it was also necessary to regulate the possibility of awarding special awards and recognitions for merits in the development and implementation of the health and safety system at work and the criminal provisions of the law are fully in line with the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. All of these supplements contribute to the protection of workers' health and job safety, unfortunately, there are still insufficient positive results in the field of work on health and safety at the workplace and for the consequence we have close to 250 thousand disabled workers in Croatia today, which is cca. about 50% of the total number of people with disabilities. It is unacceptable that at the level of the annual average suffers today still around 25,000 workers with all the quality of the safeguards that exist today. A significant problem is the disease from professional diseases caused by job damage, work in a tiresome position so that we have 51% of employees working in a tiring position today, 83% of workers are exposed to psychophysical problems or stressful jobs, 20 to 40% of workers suffer from back and neck syndrome. The problem of professional illness is cardiovascular diseases, often caused by stress of occupation and about 7% of employees suffer from diseases associated with hearing damage at work. I won't take it anymore because there's more to it that we don't turn out to be the most sickest nation in Europe. It is really important to pay more attention to those employers who suffer the most. Such employers are the most found in the processing, construction, agriculture, forestry and so on. These additions require greater responsibility by employers to protect workers' health and to improve the safety of their jobs. Penalties must be daunting for those who deliberately violate the Labour Protection and Safety Act, for no one has the right to endanger anyone’s health for any reason. It is important to emphasise for the safety of the workplace and the role of the labour protection inspection which must be extremely aggressive in the supervision of employers where workers' health is at risk. It's not enough just to determine the fact that because of the non-application of the means of protection today 60% of the workers are injured at the workplace. So last year, 1493 workers were seriously injured and pre-experienced in 2007 by 1300 workers. The question arises why some workers do not use means of protection. Where are their superiors who don't see it or where the safety commissioners are working at the time when the worker works without means of protection. Whether these safeguards are adequate, whether they are of good quality or are being saved on them, especially during the time of this recession crisis. It is extremely important that these additions to the Labour Protection Act are prescribed the right of each worker to request health, preventive checks and health protection once every three years. Until now, workers working on special working conditions have had the right to do so. Such health preventive checks of workers are important because they can reveal many diseases and also professional ones at an earlier stage, which is of invaluable value to each such individual. Unfortunately, in Croatia instead of reducing the number of professionally ill workers he unfortunately grows year after year. For example. In 2007, 107 professional diseases were reported, while 189 were reported to be a 76% increase. In addition to this improvement of the Labour Protection Act, especially as regards the right to a health examination of workers once every three years, without additional cost being incurred by the employer, it is financed from the resources of contributions to health protection at work, I also appeal to trade unions and employers to enable at least another health preventive review of workers through collective agreements. Every investment in workers' health is paid multiple times through a healthier and more efficient working environment. Then Croatia will no longer be a European record player at the level of the employee's average. As you know, in Europe, the average wage is 4 and a half days, and in Croatia it is 9 days. So, if you just reduce the job-related illness, it would be a major contribution to the health of workers, as well as to the Croatian economy. Today, on average, 30% of the workers go to sick leave due to diseases caused in the workplace. The additions to the Labour Protection Act also provide greater powers to work protection officers, as well as the obligation of employers to have a working protection commissioner regardless of the number of employees. We expect that the higher powers of labour protection commissioners, more aggressive surveillance of national protection at work, as well as preventive health checks will have a significant impact on preventing labour injury and occupational illness, i.e. to improve the general health of workers. Then it is actually the greatest value of changing and supplementing this Labour Protection Act. The funds for the implementation of this overall health protection system at work are provided through the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, Health Protection at Work and therefore the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33375	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33376	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. There hasn't been a year since we discussed this law here, and here today is the topic on the agenda again. Namely, and then we knew that we were pursuing the European Union and then we were adapting the laws to the European Union. Even the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Jadranka Kosor, said two months ago that we have a Labour Protection Act that is fully adapted to the European Union, and here today we have changes and that is nothing less than 36 articles. But what's here is, the law is right in front of us. I can't help but wonder what we're doing here today and maybe we can discuss this again in six months. But here, the law is, or amendments are proposed and I can say that the SDP club and last time supported the Labour Protection Act because simply every shift, every step in improving safety at work is welcome. But the paper puts up with everything and everything on paper, and the reality shows and proves something else. And here we heard a lot of bad indicators in Mr. Kunst's previous debate. Data on protection at work therefore show that all the efforts of work protection experts, trade unions, employers, workers are simply not enough. The numbers certainly speak better than words when we say that 25,000 people die every year in the workplace. 1500 to 2000 workers each year remain permanently incompetent for work, and what is the worst of every year between 25 and 50 workers lose their lives at work. This year, in the first four months nine people have been killed in the workplace. Comparative data for the last three years are also very bad, showing one bad trend. In 2006, heavy injuries at work 1071, 2007. 1300, and 2008. 1493. So it is obvious that things are moving in the right direction and it is necessary to take certain steps to stop this negative trend. The only relatively bright statistical data is a relatively small number of professional diseases compared to the countries of the European Union, but unfortunately this data is not due to a very small number of professional diseases, but simply because of numerous problems in the process of recognising what a professional disease is. What I find a big problem is, in fact, lack of awareness of the importance of safety at work. That safety at work, protection at work somehow, I'd say it's like everybody's getting a little nervous. Workers are often unaware of dangers, sometimes inclined to avoid protection and clothing, but they are certainly a small part of the problem. A far bigger problem is about employers. Of the 300,000 employers in the Republic of Croatia, 32,000 were carrying out prevention measures in the workplace, so less than 10%. I don't think the reason is because employers are some kind of monster who doesn't care if his employee dies at work but simply calculated that their investment in work protection is expensive, they don't know what can happen and they try normal happiness to get the inspectors around them. The risk assessment is something that is the starting point for understanding and prevention of work injuries, and in 20% of companies where the union works, there is no risk assessment at all, and where there is no union, that is God knows what's going on. We can be overjoyed in any case by adapting the law to Europeans, because if we depend on the ideas of our government, we would be ill-written. I'll remind you that the government, which was also Sanader's government, in the HItroRez programme, remembered a brilliant idea to simply lift the risk assessment. This shows a lack of interest in creating better working conditions and now it turns out that it is not a alignment with the European Union that we would not even be discussing this law today. Such proposals, such as removing the risk assessment obligation, are the ideal basis for happening, i.e. repeating cases such as “Salonite” where the harmful effect at the workplace has been affected, hundreds of workers have become ill and this has become severely ill. We here in the Parliament discussed what were the numerous gaps that led to this. What I can say is that the National Programme for Health and Safety at Work has defined the basic problems that I can agree with, which is the lack of specialist medicine work. I couldn't agree more. Then, the fact that employers, employers, consider work protection unnecessary costs, which I also agree with. The only thing I think missing from this program is not to mention the lack of a work protection inspector. They're definitely too few, and that should change. The programme also has theoretically well-defined objectives and activities it deems necessary to improve work protection. I say theoretically because, let's say, this is how it is proposed that despite the difficult economic and financial conditions of business in this year, employers retain or increase the allocation of funds to improve health protection and safety at work. I think it's hard for all of us to imagine that employers who fear that by investing, or by losing, if they consider it a loss of financial resources to protect them at work, will cause their company to be less competitive or reduce its income. So, in practice, it's quite difficult to imagine that such a thing might happen. Surely there are those employers who are aware that a healthy worker is actually a satisfied worker and a productive worker and that it is absolutely worth it to employers, therefore. But unfortunately, not a small number of those employers who don't understand it and who act like we're in a slave system. It's a common case that workers don't report work injuries because of fear of losing their jobs. It is common for workers to work overtime under difficult conditions. Thus, there is restlessness and therefore there is a greater incidence of occupational and occupational illnesses. And number, I've personally heard that even among my fellow doctors, medicine is a specialization of the medical work of a communist invention. The figure of one and a half million hours on last year's sick leave due to injuries at work which for society was a cost of 230 million kuna clearly says that no society is worth having bad protection at work was socialism, communism or this social order that we have in Croatia today, which I honestly don't know what to call. I find it extremely important that the government and employers realize that investing in protection at work is actually an investment, not a cost, and that both workers and employers and states benefit from work protection. That's definitely not true for now, because it's proof that last year, 670 million kuna were spent to treat work injuries and occupational diseases, and 64 million were invested in prevention. Obviously, some reverse printing system is “better to treat than to prevent. ” Now what can be done specifically to improve safety at work other than the legal framework. Repressive measures, which are briefly and clearly called hitting on the pocket of employers and workers who do not comply with the laws and regulations. In our people is a very popular and very effective way of creating order, but it must not be the only way, and unfortunately it is very often in practice and is the only way of trying to introduce order. Prevention is a far better and far more effective way, but unfortunately quite neglected. A large number of accidents at work can be prevented by good information and workers and employers, good work organisation, information on protection opportunities and the like. Work protection is multidisciplinary, requires the knowledge of a whole series of laws and regulations, which is particularly a problem for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs because they often do not have the legal services that follow it, so they are left to themselves. So that some kind of accident may happen not because of the desire to save the employer, but simply out of pure ignorance and uninformedness. The increase in the number of inspectors I have already mentioned is certainly necessary as well as the increase in the number of specialists in medical work. I'll tell you that because of the privatization of medicine work up in some counties in Croatia such as Zadar, Osijek-Baranja number of specialists is so small that simply those in Osijek-Baranja I think there are six or seven. They simply can't take care of all the workers that exist, and they'll hopefully be more and more workers and less unemployed with all the jobs medical specialists are doing in their infirmary. So, too much work for such a small number of people, and in that sense something has to change, and in most of my colleagues, let them specialize in medicine. In the end, I'd like to look back a little more on the amendments and the additions to the law. I consider it a commendable introduction of rewards for promoting security of protection in the work of natural and legal persons. Also, I think it is a good thing that workers working in places that do not belong in places with special working conditions will be able to perform a systematic review once every three years if they suspect that their workplace has an adverse impact on their health. But it's bad that we don't even know how many people are going to use that possibility, and in the opening statement, it tells us that it doesn't really seem that much of the money it's going to take because it will only become active once we enter the European Union. Well, then it turns out that we're making laws for the European Union, not for us. This newspaper should, in my opinion, be in every contract of work that a worker makes in employment so that he knows that he has the right to do so at all. I know that in law, it says in law that it is understood that it is the right of workers. But as I said before, the whole forest of laws that regulate protection at work, and it would be very good if the contract worker had already seen that he had the right to use it eventually, not that he was in a law there that neither his employer had heard of, let alone him. With all these remarks that I have made, I repeat, every step in improving protection at work is commendable and, in that sense, the SDP club will support these amendments and additions of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33377	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33378	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So Billjana Borzan's representative just so that it wouldn't remain as a single misunderstanding said the government had ruled out its HITROREZ with its obligation that the employer should do a job risk assessment. And the current Labour Protection Act required the employer to have this risk assessment of a job more than he even had to order from the relevant houses that were specialised to assess the device and execute it. So that's not true, because even the current law, existing, means not yet this new one, which is also the employer's proposal, has to do that hazard assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33379	Thank you. Before continuing, I would like to inform you that if we gathered a quorum around 11 o'clock, we would like to take a decision to extend the supplementation of the agenda and a decision for 2 MPs which, therefore, determines the conduct of the mandate and suspend the conduct of the mandate of two MPs. So I'm asking the clubs to try to secure the MPs around 11:00 if they'd make this addition and these decisions. Otherwise, today we plan to work until half seven, so it's extraordinary, and the other days will probably be longer. On behalf of the HSLS Club, HSU, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33380	Dear Mr. President, the respected representatives of the ministry, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. If, in 1996, when the basic law on protection at work was passed, you asked me if it was a good law, I'd say it was a good law. If you had asked me in 2003 after one thorough, let's say negotiations on the Labour Protection Act asked me if it was a good law, then I would also say it's a good law and I'll say today that this is a good law and that this is essentially about cosmetic changes because 95% of the content remains the same. One without wanting to glorify this activity of a particular, or of a public interest, I am very sorry that today is not the economy minister. Well, it's an honor to have you here, but I'll tell you, you'll see until the end of my exposure why I miss the Minister of Economy very much. This is an area of public interest, and I don't think she's been given enough attention all along the new Croatian state. I will not talk much about this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on protection of work for the reasons I have studied it, I have reviewed it and because my profession and I think that we can all freely for this law, or the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on protection of work raises our hands with a calm conscience and a clean conscience. There's no dispute here. What I would like to discuss, in some ways still under the sign of the questionnaire, is something that stems from this law because certain obligations are given to an institute, which is the "young" Croatian Institute for Health Insurance at Work. It still does not operate according to sufficiently precise rules, and this law also indicates that these rules of business of the law will be amended by the day and day of entry into the European Union. What I know reliably about this Croatian Institute for Health Insurance at Work is that it has not yet set up a system to assess harmfulness and dangers, not in the sense that it will give a pattern, but in terms of the existence of a system that will define the levels of rates at which contributions to ensure health protection at work will be paid. We proposed then in the debate when the Health Insurance Act was passed, we proposed a bonus malace system, that means that the one who violates the rules of protection at work pays more, the one who puts workers at risk pay more, the one who implements the protection measures at work, the one who takes care of health and the protection of the safety and health of workers at work pays less. That system hasn't been worked out yet. Secondly, my observations or objections to this law are also in Article 5, which states that in order to ensure health supervision of appropriate health and safety risks at work exposed to workers, the worker must be provided with a health check at his request once every three years in accordance with specific regulations. A formulation that is very difficult to clarify because we have, or must be assessed, a risk assessment must establish jobs with special working conditions. Jobs with special working conditions are prescribed periodic health checks, so previous and periodic health checks, there is a completely clean situation. This wording in paragraph 2 is insufficient to identify the real obligation, i.e. the actual obligation and the impact of the damage and dangers at the place of work itself, is crucial to someone, or someone has sought medical examination and how much work conditions can be brought into line with health conditions. So, it's a bit general, and I think it's going to be necessary to clarify here later when someone has the right to request a medical examination that relates to the harmfulities and dangers that are present in a closer or wider environment. It's too stretchy for now. I am pleased, however, that there is a new Article 4 in Article 2 which states that the Minister in charge of work will regulate the type of recognition and award referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article and the procedure and manner of conditions for their assignment. Therefore, recognitions and awards for legal and natural persons for this area are being introduced, so to improve protection at work. I'll come back to that later because this isn't news. The Croatian Parliament, during the chairmanship of the current Vice-President-in-Office, has reached some conclusions about this, and I will finally read them, in 2007, on 30 May. I'd like to say something before that. That, as an active participant on the union side in the 2003 negotiations, I am related to changes and additions to the then Labour Protection Act, extremely proud of this union negotiating team that has preserved and improved the elements of bipartite social dialogue from protection in the Republic of Croatia. At that time, employers threatened us in these negotiations, you will see that when we enter the European Union we will half-repeated the hours foreseen for the work of the union commissioner and the conditions for the work of the union commissioner for protection at work, etc. Here, I'm extremely proud that nothing is erased today, so everything remains. In fact, even a part of it is improving. So we had what we'd say, a good nose, if we'd been on the right path, if we'd already set ourselves up in a ridge that, with all these changes and additions, only improves. And this area, I'd like to tell my colleague Borzan, is sure to have a lot of changes and additions. Because this area is constantly progressing, and new models will constantly be sought to improve the functioning of the work protection system. I am proud of our club of the Croatian Party of Retired in the last meeting he proposed for the announcement of the National Work Protection Day. On 30 May, he proposed 4 conclusions from which 4 conclusions were accepted in the Croatian Parliament. The vice president will probably tell me what to do when certain conclusions are not realized within the given deadlines. But I'll take them, I'll take the opportunity to read them. The first conclusion is "It is mandatory for the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship to organise a professional tripartite meeting at national level on the topic "The State of the Labour Protection System in the Republic of Croatia" and guidelines for its promotion every year on the occasion of the 28th of April of the National Work Protection Day in the Republic of Croatia". So, the subject isn't so random. So, intervening on the state and necessarily every year, we bring new guidelines for improving the system of protection at work. So this was accepted by the Croatian Parliament. The second conclusion, "It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to set up annual awards for the achievement and achievements in the protection of workers' lives and health at work, and to improve the system of protection at work within 60 days." This conclusion was adopted with a delay from 60 days to 6 months, so this conclusion was adopted in the Croatian Parliament. Third conclusion, "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is tasked with drafting within 60 days a proposal for national protection policy at work for the period 2007 to 2011 and instructing the Croatian Parliament to accept." No deadline, or 60 days. Of course this isn't done. Fourthly, it is recommended, therefore, not a conclusion is not an obligation, but "It is recommended that the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health of the Croatian Parliament hold a thematic session within 30 days on the topic "Status of the Labour Protection System in the Republic of Croatia". It wasn't done either. Therefore, I wanted to remind myself that we have been extremely professional, competent and responsible in discussing and proposing certain conclusions that went towards the development of the system of protection at work and the previous one in this Croatian Assembly. But I remind you, we are also infected with an intolerable level of irresponsibility. In the Croatian Parliament, we too are insufficient to take care of the realization of our conclusions and obligations, and this is certainly not good for the field of protection at work. And I ask that Mr. Vice President and Mr. President inform us more and more often about how the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament are realized, because no one can dispute that these reading conclusions are well-intentioned and focused. Here we are witnessing that they are heading in the right direction, going where all of Croatia should go. Thank you for your attention. I want to ask one more question. I wrote it down so I wouldn't forget it. Do we even know in Croatia what prevention is? Because I own two of the International Labour Organization's inspectors' findings that warned us that we had the wrong approach. That access to the sheriff's punishment and acting by the labour inspectors is not a good approach to the work protection system. That it's continuous training, continuous preparation, working with people, communication, not punishment. So, are we, in any case, in a society of prevention or prevention the way it is supposed to be? That is why these possible proposed meetings should answer this question. Do we, do we know what we're doing in that part of prevention and are we on the right track? Once again, I would like to thank you for your attention and declare that the Croatian Party of Retired Party Club, i.e. the Croatian Social Liberal Party Club and the Croatian Pension Party, will be very pleased to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33381	Thank you. Club IDS Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33382	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Honored Madam Secretary of State, Your Honor, gentlemen of the Parliament. It is clear that everything needs to be done to hurt the work in this country as little as possible. It is clear that there is also a need to increase safety at work. Clearly, nothing must be subordinated to safety, or health. And it is clear that safety on the health of workers should also be taken into account in this difficult, crisis, extremely uncertain time, when it is clearly spared, but should not be spared on the safety and protection of workers. I don't know if you'll agree with me on the other hand, but I dare say that today, any of us who are on a secure government salary or on a salary in a local self-government unit or in a state-owned company or in a state-owned media, whether it's electronic or not, I don't know, we're kind of in a privileged position. Now let's put aside those big tycoons that the government has allowed to privatise, let's let those whose state guards the monopolies but these little craftsmen, little craftsmen, little employers I dare say they're in a worse position than the workers who work with them. It sounds paradoxical, but it's simply true. They match the entire assets, work at 16 hours, have to settle all obligations if not within eight days they get a warning, then they will be blocked, the liquidity is threatening, competition is increasing, etc. And then you really need to talk about some new obligations that this law or laws that will be made under this law will cause these people. Once again, I will say, clearly, I am absolutely 100% to provide the worker with 100% protection. In Croatia, between 50 and 60 people die each year as a result of a tragedy at work. In 2008, that evil fate struck 57. Thousands and thousands of employees are injured every year at work. Mrs. Borzan mentioned a $25,000 number. Of those 25 thousand who suffered serious physical injuries in 2007, there were thousands of 300, 2008 thousand 493. It is clear that these people should be treated afterwards, some unfortunately and we lose, and this clearly costs both the health and pension system. In one word, these labour injuries cost the Republic of Croatia's budget. How much? It's hundreds of millions of kunas. It is said that for specific health care in this law or in the context of the HZZO, 365 million kuna is guaranteed, 194.7 million kuna, but on the other hand we can ask ourselves how many hundreds of millions of kunas cost the treatment of injured, their sick, loss of work capacity, etc. This is clearly understood in this reasoning and the law does not speak, but we can safely assume that it is hundreds and hundreds of millions of kunas. What bothers me in some way is that we need to regulate this matter on protection at work under the pressure of the European Union as if we can't see for ourselves that we simply have to regulate this matter rather than ask for a simple or better way, but we need someone on the side to tell us how we should behave. I will quote here a few points from this explanation where, among other things, it is said that the particular obligations of the employer are quoted in the area of protection of the safety and health of workers and identified persons who are responsible for the violation of all work protection activities and the conditions to be met by these persons. It is then said that, according to this and to workers who are not covered by the obligation of regular health checks under a special regulation, the right to request such preventive medical examination every three years, while on page four, it is said, among other things, that as regards the means necessary for the implementation of the Labour Protection Act, this law does not require them to be provided in the national budget for the reasons that the cost of implementing measures under that law is the burden of the employer and the costs of the employer. However, due to the necessary harmonisation of labour legislation in this area with the relevant acquis of the European Union, this law partially extends the scope of workers' rights. This is because, until now, only those workers who have worked on jobs with special working conditions have been covered by the right to periodic health and medical examination over a period of three years, as well as by other workers who request it, as well. Where do the most common injuries occur at work? It's often clear with the consequences of death. I guess it's in forestry, I guess it's clear in shipbuilding, construction, from other industries in Croatia there's little industry left, everything's destroyed, it's a tragedy. Everyone works at the department store today and so clearly can't anymore. I personally believe that this cost of preventive checks on myself should be taken over by the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. It is clear from this reasoning of the law that this will not be so because page four says that for this purpose, the Institute generates revenue from a special contribution made by the basis of a special contribution to labour injuries and occupational diseases that employers are required to pay. The collection of funds for contributions shall provide funds for the implementation of the specific health care of workers, a ready-to-be quote. I don't think it's appropriate at this point to transfer this burden to workers or to employers who are already breaking under the burden of all possible taxes, contributions, parafiscal burdens. I think that part of these burdens should really be deleted when it comes to these parafiscal burdens because this condition that we have in the country clearly doesn't lead to anything anymore. The cost of work will be said clearly with a small salary again is the largest in Croatia because, for example, where the employer in the world is exposed to 2 hundreds and 50 parafiscal charges, from I don't know Croatian Waters to a tourist rental and this will be another new legal obligation. On the other hand, let's say that the state offers this employer. I dare say almost nothing, they're not even able to solve any work permits, let alone something more, something more to come out to meet the employer. I will relate a perhaps unique example in Croatia Mr. Ivan Krapović came to Buzet 40 years ago, is 85 years old and still works, there are 20 workers. Only Saudi Arabia exports 10 million kunas of various technical goods. He wants to leave the drive to his granddaughter, and it wouldn't be a problem if his grandson wasn't Slovenian, son of his son Krapovic, who is one of the richest and most powerful entrepreneurs in Slovenia but wants to leave the drive to his son, who is Slovenian. He's asking for a work permit, he can't get a work permit. I mean, where does it just lead? I think the state should meet people's employers with a minimum service. But what we're going to do is, the state administration doesn't, that's what it is, from day to day we're making new laws, we're moving an increasing burden to the employer, i.e. A citizen. Let's just look at the sanctions from this law by the 27th. I agree, too, clearly, that sanctions should be prescribed, but there should be a measure in everything. Why am I saying that? We came to the wall, so it doesn't go any further. Okay, the budget rebalance is going, and I think a new budget should be passed right now, not in 9, 10, or I don't know what month, and then we'll talk about it, but we're all just looking at the budget, looking for shipbuilders, looking for peasants, pensioners, salaries, health care, nobody's happy with anything. But what am I saying? The economy just came to the wall. There's no one left to take. Let's let people work, so if they have to work on Sundays, clearly pay for that work. What kind of message does the Minister of Health say, so in the fall I'm going to talk about this matter, so we need to talk about it right away, not wait for the season to pass. I'll talk to the caterers at nine months, so give them work now and let them, if they have to smoke, normally not where they eat, but where they drink. It's just a matter. The employer is asked to make a new commitment every day. Even from this law, new obligations are prescribed. But then go out and meet these people, give them an adequate, administrative service and let people work, so if they want to work Sundays at the store and after 14 hours or now on holiday 22. Six or twenty-five, let them work. On the other hand, what are the sanctions, for example? Article 18 of page 7, each employer is obliged to designate one or more workers to carry out protection activities in relation to the protection and prevention of dangers, harmfulness by the designation of authorising officers or by the employment of safety experts at work. On the other hand, on page 28 of Article 108, money sanctions are now prescribed, so it is said that one who does not have simply such a person will pay a fine from 10 to 40 thousand kuna for the offence. I mean, and I don't list any of these violations that are listed here. That's the point, you just have to measure everything. People who write, who suggest these sanctions simply don't know how hard it is not just to make money, but even worse to save, say, 10 or 40 thousand kuna, how much punishment or sanctions are on top of this basis under this law. In order for someone to make 10 or 40 thousand kunas, they must have a turnover of 200, 300, maybe 400, maybe several thousand kunas. This law, as we can see, bears the label P.Z.E. So it's a European law. IDS like other clubs will support that law. But we also warn of sanctions and all new and new standards which, at the current stage of development, the Croatian economy is so wounded that it cannot follow. The easiest thing to do is to put the key in the lock, but it just can't be a solution for, it can be a solution for the employer, but it can't be a solution for the state or local self-government, and it's simply a lot of people who don't understand it, but just to say that in this country it's going to be worse than better. And finally, let's not threaten the merchants who work Sundays. I read today, here I remembered in Free Dalmatia a statement from the North, from these independent unions saying: "It will not be in Slovenia because of Slovenia's stance on Croatia.". Yes, the position of the Slovenian government is hypocritical for Croatia exclusively, but one is the Slovenian government and the other are citizens. Especially if we bear in mind that 700 thousand Slovenians are staying on the Croatian Adriatic. Without them, no tourist system would stand, and therefore such statements at this time of crisis are simply harmful. Anything regarding this law, the IDS will support it. We will vote in favour, but we propose to keep these new obligations at the Croatian Health Insurance Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33383	Thank you. Two corrections. First Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33384	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Cain, in his presentation of several incorrect allegations, listed himself later. But he said that the costs of these preventive checks, within three years, means what was mentioned in the debate will not be provided by the Health Insurance Institute at work. And it is true that in the budget of the Institute for Health Safety at Work has been provided for specific health care of 194 million 790 thousands of kuna for such a type of review. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33385	Second correction Mr. Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33386	I thank Mr. Vice President, just now Col. Milinkovic has corrected one of the wrong allegations, and the other is, I keep it very important when he says, when he actually transfers responsibility to the Minister of Health and to the general government when it comes to working on Sundays and when it comes to smoking. You've mispronounced your allegations here in the sense that I don't know, and the catering facilities and let you smoke. We had a committee meeting yesterday, a thematic session of the Health Committee where we talked about malignancies where there were over 100 doctors, the most excellent doctors in Croatia who were dealing with this problem and no one supported it in that sense in which you said the law, however, gave support to the minister not to be allowed and to prevent smoking because health is more valuable than anyone, I don't know, courting, advocacy to the caterers or anyone else. On the other hand, they work on Sundays, so everyone in the world at the time of recession, at a time that is now and the problems of everyone who has been shortening the work week to keep the job and we're talking and you're actually talking here we open up I don't even know the jobs and Sundays. So we fight to save on Mondays until Fridays, and you'd still be working on Sundays. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33387	Individual debate, Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33388	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the honorable secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The issue of work, the issue of employment and everything that is closely related to it in Croatia is being dramatically sharpened today. In fact, the matter of working time, working conditions, fair wages, protection at work are certainly key social issues that require, above all, one new justice, a new valorisation but then adequate protection. I certainly welcome this law, but will this law be like the letter of the Constitution only a catalogue of good wishes? In fact, the real safety of Croatian workers is far, far from declared and legally guaranteed, and even further from the desired level. Is such fate going to be both this law and this proposal that is certainly good? Namely, what we have in action and we need to see what to do in that sense, how these mechanisms run. In effect, a complete violation of guaranteed rights without any sanctions for offenders and without the real legal protection of damaged workers is in place. I just can't, and as you've heard, on behalf of the SDP club, we don't simply agree to this hypocritical impotence in front of that fact and that power and that logic of large capital. Common and illegal layoffs, wage cuts, tax and contribution payments, non-payment of overtime, work on holidays, work in conditions in which workers' health is suffering without sanctions, inequality and chicarity at birth, age, national or any other basis does not experience adequate protection. Why is that? It is then that one of the bigger troubles a man can find today is to be a worker in Croatia. The insecurity of work in Croatia has indeed taken a dramatic and worrying level. Many workers working on underpaid jobs, on dangerous jobs, without the necessary protection at work are forced to accept any job and feel too weak to seek protection they know exists in the law, that there is also a declaration in the Constitution. Once again, the growing number of workers who work and do not get paid, because employers use this situation and do not pay their wages even though they can pay for it, even though the company has not fallen into such difficulties. Why is that? Obviously, we have a state, we have a government that has mechanisms that are too weak to protect workers, and they're too powerful when it comes to training the strictness of that same man. We simply, here may be this opportunity and this bill that we need to create a new national consensus, an agreement on a value system and say no to gramptuous hyperliberalism. It's something inadmissible. Sooner or later, it all goes to ruin because such hyperliberalism wants to remove all the rules. He preaches that in the name of freedom and free market everything is allowed to do, of course, if you have capital. Whoever owns almost and has a large capital can do whatever they want, and those who have no capital have no power. This is why it is in vain today to talk about political rights, and they are in extreme danger if we are not talking about protection above all labour rights, social rights, cultural rights, educational rights. These are fundamental rights, and if they are not in vain, then political rights. Bernard Brecht said a long time ago and wrote, "The ballot can't feed the worker." In this one, then, the eternal conflict of labour and capital, the government cannot remain too weak, regulatoryly neutral. The whole series of existing laws sided with capital, allowing and tolerateing his lawlessness, and to the detriment of workers. If we just remember the law, executive law, fiduciary, all people, small employers must go into the executive procedure. Let's say, the largest capital, the banking capital, it's used by fiduciary, elegantly. For him, there is not even such an institute of executive procedure. We still have an amendment to the law whereby someone who has remained in debt to both the worker and the state overnight can form a new company. What kind of message is that to the workers then? Workers are prohibited from articulating their protests in Mark's square. The Constitutional Court has not yet resolved this request for an assessment of the constitutionality of the law. Although he's now been strengthened by recent personnel solutions, he hasn't found it yet, here's the fifth, six years he's been going to solve the case. Therefore, these are bad messages and infatuation such as these and good and quality suggestions as to how many of them will remain dead letters on paper. In fact, we have to stop that logic to privatise everything that is privatized in the first place, by making sense to reduce public spending, to reduce public health, to reduce social costs, to treat workers as a consumer thing. But we simply don't have a system of proper evaluation and positioning of work relative to capital. The government recently gave its opinion by rejecting the SDP's proposal to treat failure to pay the worker as a criminal offence. You even have reason to believe that this would undermine legal certainty by frequent amendments to the law. That should change overnight. First of all, it's one of the important anti-recession measures. I believe that there will certainly be changes in that opinion and government, especially due to the urgent changes in the KZ that are needed. In fact, it is entirely wrong to understand a man as a consumer, a market that can regulate everything, and that is why we have so many unemployed who are willing to work for such a small salary and so little rights. Namely, folded money, secure the largest amount of capital in as short a time as possible, that's the dream of every neoliberal capitalist. And the workers on the other hand, suffering for their shame, because of their difficult position, humiliated, humiliated, often hiding shame, and it will hide it for as long as it holds its state in doubt, cemented, almost impossible to change. So, what do we do? Increase taxes to rich people? Taxing that capital gain? What a horror for them. But it needs to be done. Namely, all those who accept the protection of the weakest, and the worker is in such a position means that he has taken on himself a more significant personal risk, and that is not good. So they have to be even a heroic spell, and it's not a good society, it's not a happy society that needs heroes in a peaceful age. So we have full impudence on the one hand, that reckless capital, and on the other hand total cowardice needs to be changed. In fact, back in 1933, the US Supreme Court judge in one verdict was just in the protection of workers and injuries, so the violation of his health had come to the point exactly that the company, that a corporation could be if control was hijacked almost as Frankenstein's monster. It's up to us on regulatory models, state mechanisms to keep such a monster in control, on a leash, so that not all of these injuries that we witness every day, and most of the world of work happen to how much we end up with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33389	Thank you. In 10.47, it was time to report a ten-minute hearing. Ms. Representative Bozica Šolić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33390	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The labour protection law was passed in 1996, but since then it has experienced several additions and changes. These newspapers, adopted by this law, relate and fully comply with the acquis of the European Union, and fulfil the obligations set out in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. In order to fully align the Protection Act with the Council Directive, as well as the additional requirements of the representatives of the European Commission, it is necessary to further clarify some previously agreed legal institutes, such as procedures relating to the clarification, consultation and co-decision of workers. In these amendments and additions, the employers’ obligations are precise in the field of protection of workers' safety and health, and there are certain persons responsible for the implementation of all work protection activities, and the conditions to be met by persons in charge of protection at work. The law also emphasises the prevention of health protection in the work of all workers not only those working on jobs with special working conditions, and in certain time periods have to legally request a health check to assess the possible impact of working conditions on their health. Workers who are not subject to regular health checks under a special regulation shall be entitled to request a preventive medical examination within a period of three years. The law further regulates the way employers are obliged to organise and implement protection at work. Employers are obliged to continuously assess the dangers and disadvantages of working conditions on the health and safety of workers. As far as the duties of employers and workers in the field of emergency situations such as fire extinguishing or rescue or providing assistance under special conditions are concerned. A particular area of responsibility of employers for the possible damage caused to a worker that is fully in line with the principles of mandatory law. And I won't be longer since my predecessors talked a lot about the protection of workers at work, but they also talked about some other topics that weren't absolutely related to this law. In the end, I will say that the law and the newspapers that are incorporated into this law ensure a more effective system of health and safety at work and extend the rights of workers. And the funds are set for the implementation of this law at the Health Insurance Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33391	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. I've missed that by looking into Mrs. Ingrid's exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33392	Okay, this was a replica to my colleague Ingrid. There's been a little confusion, but now she's gone, so I don't know. Actually, it was, but it might show up. We're talking about protection about work, and that's an important topic. But we've opened the issue of the field of work. It seems to me that we really need to say in this House that first of all we need to protect people in Croatia from unemployment, i.e. Protecting citizens from inability to work. The wealth of each society can only be realised in the production in the field of work and therefore is the interest of society to open up the opportunity for everyone to work. As for the protection of labour rights, I think some colleagues have mentioned asbestos. This is indeed a problem in the area where I live and I think it is necessary to protect not only those who are exposed to action, potential action and disease, protect in the best possible way, but also damage in an adequate way all those who are victims of asbestos resulting from insufficient protection in the process of work. I know that's what this is about, but I don't think it's enough. Here, recently one of my best friends died of asbestos, which he earned in the Split Square, working on materials of isolation that were then placed in special production in ships. I also think that it is necessary to protect people who have been working for years, including 10 years on contracts of 3 months that are constantly being renewed or 6 months. It's all actually endangering people in the process of work.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33393	Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33394	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I have only come up for one reason that I believe that the problem of job safety and the consequences of the health of many workers who lose their health in certain jobs is insufficient. From the debates so far, it's the least we could say about it. It was about employment, about work on Sundays, about payouts, about the Penal Code, about work permits, about tourism, about Croatian-Slovenian relations, about everything, but at least it was about the problem that I think should be, not just for us here in the Parliament, but in society one of the very important problems, and I think that such a topic would require discussion, not maybe an hour or two, but perhaps a few days. Because the data statistics show us are not favourable in Croatia. They're unfortunately defeating us. I was in the name of the club, and I'm going to try them again and again and again to strengthen them because if people on an annual level, 25,000 people get killed in the workplace and on, then it's obviously a very alarming thing. If we grow from year to year, the number of injured workers is becoming more and more severe, if we are growing in the number of professionally ill, if today out of total illness, 30% of the illnesses are caused in the workplace, and that is not a small number. This is about 57,000 workers a day on sick leave because the result of this illness is inadequate jobs or workplace injuries. That's why I think it's insufficient to find out from a work protection inspection that, unfortunately, 60% of the workers are injured at work because they haven't used protective means. So I ask where are these employers? Where are those bosses, the manager, I don't know who his name is, and I don't know any work protection commissioners who just don't see these people working, working with no means of protection. Are these means of protection adequate, adequate, or not? Then if the labour protection inspection knows, and that statistics show that the most workers are injured in the processing activity, in the construction industry, and even in agriculture, which certainly our colleagues from the Peasant Party could say more about it, and even in forestry, then it is sufficient to signal a protection inspection at work to concentrate right now, go according to these activities, strengthen supervision and see what's wrong. Where are the problems? And what I would disagree with my colleague Caine who says that too much punishment is prescribed by this bill. That's not true. Ma dragonski should punish any employer who is unable to ensure the safety of a job that saves on protective means, etc. No punishment is too high for that man's health, not to say, God forbid and that mortality. Statistics clearly show what the workers most often suffer from. These are stressful diseases that cause 83% of employees to suffer today. And it's not harmless because stress at work creates conjectures for strokes and shortens life. From... The position, it means the inadequate position in the workplace suffers 45% of the workers today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There suffers back, eyes, it's working with computers, physical affairs, professional drivers, etc. We're somewhere in the 21st century, and there's already such a technology that it can protect these workers, and it's only a matter of why employers don't use it? The hearing disease is killing 7% of the workers today. This is the most common cause of noise and normal, non-use of protective means. Now, why don't you use protective means and who doesn't see it? The ban on smoking at work has positively affected those 550,000 smokers who at least do not smoke while working. Of those 550,000 smokers, 34% are men, 27% are women. Only by the way is one data related to the effects of smoking, that because of the health disturbances caused by smoking, workers spend an average of 34 days a year or somewhere on the annual level of 19 million working days. It is a terrible figure that would hit a much richer country than Croatia. Speaking of job protection and safety, I believe that at least twice a year we should run a test on employees on individual addictions, any alcohol, any drugs, any other opiate. There's not much to talk about, and that's one big problem today. I believe that a list of professions that would be in the treatment of mandatory testing should be established, and I particularly think of professions that are responsible for the safety of citizens. And finally, I welcome this intensities of the legislator, who, with these amendments and additions to the Labour Protection Act, requires greater responsibility of the employer towards the protection of workers' health, greater safety of their jobs, especially as regards health preventive checks of workers, at least once every 3 years. But again, I appeal here especially to the awareness of those employers who care about workers and their health that in these collective negotiations with trade unions they try at least one more treatment or another term to determine that workers are being examined, that is to say, to go to these systematic reviews that unfortunately no longer exist. So I think that health is of invaluable value and not a single cost, I think someone has already said that, any investment in the prevention and health of workers must be paid multiple times through a healthier and more efficient working environment, and health is of invaluable value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33395	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33396	You're talking about a smoking ban at work, I guess it's kind of an old regulation for ten years. Now we have a ban on smoking in public spaces, which includes catering facilities by new ones, is it? We've just witnessed the insurrection of the caterers who are collecting a petition of citizens because they're out of work, because their workers are out of work because of that regulation. The ban on smoking in public space is certainly a good provision if it protects non-smoking health by smokers. When it comes to catering facilities, then we are faced with this requirement to approach this problem a little bit more rational. The caterers demand that up to 50 square feet [50 sq m] of facilities be able to choose whether to lead them for smokers or non-smokers. And at the council, that space should be divided. So that non-smokers are truly protected from aggressive smoking smoke. You're talking about the good side of that law, about protecting workers on the job was tobacco smoke. However, if it continues to implement this regulation as it has begun, then workers in catering facilities in so many numbers will lose their jobs, that you will no longer have anyone to protect. You will not have any more health for any worker, nor will you have any health to protect them, for they will no longer be workers, and they will lose their jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33397	Replication response, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33398	Thank you very much. So I think it would be a sad finding first of all if only smokers were saving the hospitality sector in Croatia, or these small hosts, then that would be a real problem. I have to tell you that you know what you said, that the caterers should set room one for smokers, one for non-smokers, so it's just as if in the pool you set up a place to urinate. And that's how you stopped other people in that pool from being exposed. But so it just doesn't stand. I mean, and here I am recently even in Canada, I have to tell you that. They also have a smoking ban at all jobs in catering facilities, etc. We asked them, we just asked them, well how do your entrepreneurs handle it? He said the same thing at first they were a little restless, a little nervous. You get used to it later, and they don't lose anything there anymore. Because I think the the thesis that hospitality is being held by only smokers today is not standing, so I think that the protection of health is more important than I don't know what traffic, any cafe that can't in any way secure the protection of non-smokers from smokers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33399	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament would now, in accordance with the announcement, end the debate in an hour, in a moment around this item of the agenda and complete the completion of the agenda. We are continuing to discuss the final draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on protection at work. Madam Representative Ljubica Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33401	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Ms. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here we have already had many occasions to hear about the reasons why the Labour Protection Act is changing and supplementing. So I'm going to say briefly that there are some of the legal institutes in this law that are already in place. Thus, the updated procedures are related to the notification, counselling and co-decision of workers, the obligations of the employer in the field of protection, safety and health of workers are specified, therefore, further stressed the prevention of health protection at work and as we have already heard in a way that has already established the right of all workers, therefore not only those working on jobs with special working conditions, that they have the right to request a health review to assess the impact of working conditions on their health. Such a preventive review may be requested for a period of time of every three years. Furthermore, there is an additionally regulated way in which employers are obliged to organise and implement protection at work. Each employer must have a person in charge of carrying out work protection activities and, regardless of his size, workers must have a work protection commissioner. Furthermore, these amendments and additions to the laws are governed by the employer's duty to continuously assess the dangers and disadvantages of working conditions on the health and safety of workers. The duties of the employer and workers in the area of emergency circumstances and in cases of direct dangers have been specified. This proposal also provides for the possibility of awarding special awards and recognitions for merits in the development and implementation of the health and safety protection system at work. I'm not going to explain each of these papers any more because we've talked a lot about it today. I would like to say that the protection of health and safety at work, I firmly believe, is the interest of every employer, of course and society as a whole, and the protection process is the cheapest, so if employers and workers respect the provisions of this law and all other regulations that regulate this issue. I think that this law should have been further coordinated with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, so in that sense I have proposed an amendment. And here, for the end of my debate, I will say that I am firmly convinced that the amendments and additions of this law will certainly contribute to the prevention and protection of workers' health in the workplace. Because here I always remember a sentence that the president of the alliance said at a thematic session in this House when he said that he was the president of the Association of Disabled Workers of Croatia, the happiest when no one joined them. That means he's lucky to have as few as possible, of course he's happy when accidents don't happen at work. And here I firmly believe that these amendments and additions to the law will certainly contribute even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33402	Thank you. Mr. Representative Bruno Kurelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33403	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. Today we have heard a lot about the amendments and additions to this Labour Protection Act, but also about the topic of working protection itself. It has gone far and wide on other topics such as some speakers here in the assembly, but to round up this issue as a multidisciplinary activity that needs technical achievements, health care, legal regulation, psychological and pedagogical efficiency, all in order to eliminate and reduce the dangers in the working environment, hence injuries and accidents. As far as legal or legal discipline itself is concerned, this law is experiencing as we know the changes for the third time. Somewhere in '96. The year of the summer was first brought, and then it was quickly corrected, so three times now the change of the third time and one correction. As for here in a less than a year, the amendments and additions of this law, I believe, are on the verge of this clarity, as I would say, compliance with the European Union's legal regulations. But you know, these kinds of jobs so often and so often these changes remind me of the word of one of our local politicians from one of his speeches so recently. He says about like this, he says you know we're always into the hard stuff, but we take the job right away and get rid of it. And I'd ask the next thing you know, what we're dealing with, and how we're dealing with it, and when we're gonna solve it again. As far as this law on amendments and additions to this law is concerned, I will personally support it because the problem, this work protection problem, is a major problem not only of our society, but of the whole working environment, both in Europe and in the world. Today, we spend much of our hours at work, of course, those who are fortunate to have a job and devote much of their lives to their work assignments and responsibilities. This fact is important for the employer, but also for the employer, for the work organisation, but also for society as a whole. Of course, healthier and safer jobs reduce accidents at work, reduce the number of days lost, increase company productivity. But until employers realize that investing in labour protection is not an unnecessary cost, especially at this point in time our economic stagnation is already actually investing in profit, things are hardly going to move more significantly from a zero point and it's going to be different from what our colleagues here in the assembly were saying today, and the situation is bad. But this is also the result of our mentality, the result of the frequent law-playing, but also the lack of implementing culture in any field of action. This is where the colleagues brought out a whole series of statistics. I'm just going to say the parameter, the two parameters that in this time of recession and economic stagnation, environments are very, very important. In 2007, we lost a million and something, over a million and 200 thousand working days right on injuries related to injuries and occupational diseases. And last year, that figure rose to a million and 400 thousand. When we talk about this topic of protection at work, we often turn to employers. It would be good to ask in this segment when we are discussing the protection of the work of the employer in this protection of the work of the state. The relevant analyses show that it is a state and very weakly refers not only to the legal provisions of protection at work but also to the implementation culture of the action itself. There are almost alarming data coming from analysis by some institutions, and for example they can indicate a very well-known institution. I won't name her. One institute in Croatia where a large number of cancer patients have been observed in recent years without some relevant enterprises being done. Of course there's a lot of things here today that I don't repeat myself, and everything I would say further would be kind of the same repetition. Here, counterpart Kunst stated that according to the number of sick days in Europe, Croatia is 9.2 days of living at the top of Europe itself, which is an examination of the trust, the European Foundation, or research of the European Foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions that have been carried out in our area for the past few years. This poll shows that nearly 50% of workers express their health problems related to the workplace. There's so much about it. I will personally support this law, because I believe that every legal, in that part of the law, establishment of this law of change that will lead to better, better health protection in the Republic of Croatia is necessary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33404	Thank you. Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33405	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here from the debate it is fully evident how important health protection at work is mainly to prevent work injuries, occupational diseases and other diseases that are related to work, of course, and to protect the working environment. Particular attention is certainly needed to protect young people, protect women with disabilities, etc. And otherwise, protection at work as an organised action includes a system of rules applicable, and these rules are as follows: rules in designing and developing labour resources, rules in maintaining the study of labour funds, rules relating to labour and employees' resources, and adaptation of the work process to their sex, age, mental, physical capacity, training and information of employees and employers with a view to achieving an adequate level of protection at work and health care, cooperation at all levels from employers, employees through their representatives and associations to the level of state institutions and bodies. All of this is in the 1996 Act on Protection at Work, which was amended and completed in 2003, and here we are in our 2008 synergy. But of course we also have activities regarding the harmonisation of our legislation with the European Union and, of course, Chapter IX. Social policy and employment. In that part, the Government adopted an action plan in 2007 and in this context, so that I do not repeat it in accordance with Directive 89, it was necessary to redefine certain institutes, which are therefore related and precise to them, are procedures related to the notification, consultation and co-decision of workers. That's all clear and now those things that are important in that part. They were also said on several occasions in this place. Therefore, firstly in relation to the examination of those who are subject to special working conditions and therefore those preventive checks within three years which would therefore be possible for those other workers. The second moment is that employers are therefore obliged to organise and implement work protection. Therefore, the employer must have a person in charge of carrying out work protection activities, and on the other hand the right of workers to have, therefore, their Commissioner. It is also said about the specific circumstances, so in the event of obligation, in the case of direct dangers, so first aid, fire extinguishing, etc. Of course, these are also identified under the fourth, so circumstances for possible damage and what is good fifth is that there are opportunities for certain rewards. Of course it's all good anyway, and we also said about these costs. So, the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, Health Protection at Work, we have said this in the past and surely this law will fulfill its purpose, so on those fundamental goals of preventing injuries of professional ones. But, of course, a reduction in the rate of sick leave that was a lot of talk in this part. And so, unfortunately, by which we are preceding here in a wider European environment. But here I have to say I come from the county that for years thank God here's that rate kept within the limits of the permitted rates, so it's really kind of a merit, since it's a comprehensive approach meaning. But it is certainly my duty to mention one moment in this place, there has been a talk of protection in various areas, so here these days there is a lot of talk about agriculture, so perhaps in some ways about protecting the work in agriculture may not be spoken enough. There's a need to draw attention. In fact, agriculture also has major traumas and major injuries to work, of course and consequently disability, etc. In particular, in working with agricultural-suppression machines. And further, here I have experience and practice mainly these are immensely large traumas in... work in agriculture, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are major injuries, and which are indeed here in designing projectors must certainly have great attention and, of course, the education of participants in this production process. Because sometimes there is a acceleration of the process itself that applies some solutions that eventually cause major trauma. It's also a moment where there may be insufficient attention, which is working with pesticides. It may well be mentioned in this place that truly man is amazed to see how little expertise these pesticides are dealing with, and when such circumstances occur, these are extremely dramatic circumstances and can be with very difficult consequences. Of course, those who present their products during wintertime in working with farmers do well to present their products, but as for this moment, perhaps one recommendation that in this part of these winter times, especially in our villages to devote a significant place of education to this moment. That's it. Of course I expect this part, that it will be supported by the law. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33406	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33407	My colleague encouraged me, I listened carefully to him, and I replicated the part in which you claim that this law will, in accordance with some European norms, solve everything that he is intended to do. I wouldn't say it's going to be all that way, and we'll probably have to face another kind of trauma in this House that this law doesn't talk about very soon. It's primarily about protecting the physical health of people who work here. However, there is a whole range of trauma that disrupts the mental health of employees. And it's mostly one group of people, the ones that work insecure jobs, so on. Precise employment, people who work on occasional, temporary jobs, which are formally referred to by this law because they too are treated like all those who are employed. However, it is well known from practice that these people are, in fact, the most stressful forms of work activities and that the very fact that they are in an insecure position puts them in an unequal or less valuable position than those in the business of permanent employment. So this is a problem that this law does not touch at all, but this uncertainty and trauma of people who participate in the process of work in these circumstances will certainly have to find their place in positive laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33408	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33409	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I might be able to do this not as a replica, but as a correction to the quote. My colleague said I said he'd solve this whole problem. No, I said it would improve this area and, of course, that fundamental moment would fill, so prevent injuries to work, professional diseases and other diseases that are related to work and protection at work. Of course you've opened up another area, that has, of course, every area has its own circumstances. I was talking about the moment of agriculture as such. Of course, you're the problem of seasonal workers. Each area deserves special attention and in this sense I support this moment, but of course I did not say in this whole, but will, of course, improve this very important and important area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33410	Mr. Representative Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33411	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. It doesn't mean better, of course, except in athletics. There's a better one who goes through the goal first. On this trail, Ms Milanka Opačić said that this Law on Medical Aided Insemination does not comply with European legislation, and this law, the Labour Protection Act, is in line. In other words, faster means better in this law, and definitely not in the third point supplement the agenda. In fact, the European Union, some say the goal, is some say the means. I think it's both. The means are that we are finally becoming in a series of systems, as well as in protecting the work of a regulated state, and the goal is because Croatia has been an integral part of Europe for hundreds of years and hundreds of years and the Croatian people and the Croatian state. The incidence and prevalence of diseases in Croatia is very clear. Every other Croat is getting better and dying of cardiovascular diseases, 20% of Croatian citizens are dying of tumors, and today 65 of our citizens will find out that they have cancer and today 35 of our citizens will die of cancer. There are injuries in third place. In third place are injuries, work injuries, car accidents, and here we are in the paradox with Europe and the world. And of course anyone reasonable should be wondering why? Well, because we don't have a good law. Because we don't have good working conditions. Because we have an awful lot of professional diseases, because we're hypocritical, those who decide of course. Because we tolerate unhealthy industry, because we tolerate poor working conditions and because it is good that this law is in line with European Union legislation, not that we are suffering from the Law on Medical Aided Insemination, which is to kill an incredible thing. That's why it's very important, I think it's crucial that finally with the paradigm of disease and illness, we all talk about illnesses, we move on to the paradigm of health and health conditions. Instead of treating our workers who, not by their own fault, have, for example, suffered from mesothelioma because they work with asbestos, with asbestos industry, we treat factories. Of course, we treat poor working conditions, we treat unhealthy industries. And let's not be hypocritical in February 2006, then Minister of Economy, today's defence minister allows the production of asbestos in Salonite Vranjic. In the third millennium, the 21st century, 50 years after World Health declared asbestos a first-class carcinogen, we allow asbestos production. That's why we're in third place with injuries, professional illnesses and other things. That's why we care about that security. Safety at the workplace, traffic safety and I absolutely welcome this law, especially in the wake of the introduction of preventive checks. It is good that these preventive checks are extended, it is good that employers are mandatory to send, i.e. to provide systematic preventive checks every 3 years in all industries, no matter what industries workers work in, and not just as in high-risk industries so far. Of course, it is better to prevent it than to treat it or rather say it, it is better to prevent it than to allow it to develop a tumor or a professional disease. One kuna invested in prevention ultimately means 10 kuna. There is no investment in the stock market, and the stock market obviously does not work only in Croatia, but in the world, there is no investment in real estate that brings you the factor 10 times perhaps this lottery that is now happening and will eventually be won by the winner. Best investment is in prevention. That's why I support this law, of course. It's getting late, but on that trail, it's good to remember the hypocrisy of those who allowed the production of asbestos to continue in "The Salonite" Vranjica. The hypocrites of the fact that our patients, our citizens of the tumor, die 12,000 500 annually, hypocritically to die a city the size of Trogir annually, hypocritically that the whole series, of course not all, of these diseases could be prevented, could be discovered in time. On this trail yesterday, the Committee on Health organised a great session, the thematic session "Resolution on tumours", taking into account all this data, given that, of course, both the European Parliament and the World Health and Security Council of the United Nations have highlighted the importance of maintaining health and of the 10 millennium goals as well as health targets. But what we concluded yesterday and, in particular, the State Secretary of State from the Ministry of Economy, since they had a minister who is now a defence minister who allowed the production of unhealthy industry in the 21st century to be imagined, is the fact that there are differences in the improvement of the counties. You know, we're a small country, honorable but small. There are 4.5 million of us, but it's amazing that there are differences in the incidence of certain diseases in such a small country between the counties. Perhaps counterpart Vidovic will speak more from the county from which he comes. But it is likely that in Split-Dalmatia County we allow 20 kilometers from Split to produce unhealthy industry, allow concreteisation of our coast and allow anything that indicates and makes health worse. We live in a great time, we live in a time when the last secrets of human life fall. Human genome detected. We can run genetic tests. We live in a time of high-tech technology, we live in a time of smart pharmaceuticals, but we remember good old epidemiological studies. So I'll just tell you one thing. The Filipinos, for example, or the citizens of China who go into emigration, go to emigration most often in America. And the first state of America to them is Hawaii and California. So, all those who emigrated 60 years ago and who maintained their eating habits did not increase the number of tumors throughout their generation. The same citizens of the Philippines or China who moved to Hawaii or California and accepted the Western way of life, so... fast food or Croatian fast food. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Especially those who worked in an unhealthy asbestos-type industry, Mr. Vice President, have developed a large number of tumors for one generation. It's evidence, scientific epidemiological evidence that genes are not decisive. That in that roulette gene we have, no one knows what we're getting in the roulette of genes, but that the environment, especially the working conditions, and I'm stressing incredibly much, in one generation, change the incidence and frequency of tumors. On that trail, I welcome this law, it was passed late. It is unusual that it was brought by the Ministry of Economy, which 3 years ago allowed the production of asbestos that my friend Marin Jurjevic often spoke of in Croatia. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33412	Thank you. Replica, Madam Representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33413	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to replicate my colleagues in connection with his discussions. Of course, all the praises for yesterday's thematic session on malignancies and resolution. I'd like to say on this discussion of your differences in regional differences in tumours. I come from the Bjelovar-Belogorian region, so it is true that genetics has no role, but has a great role in the way of life, a way of eating, which unfortunately is entirely guilty. People who eat a lot of ham in Dalmatia don't get as much cancer as people in our region of Bjelovar-Bilogor County get because they just eat bad food. Smoking food, which is full of tar like a cigarette filled with that tar that causes lung cancer. And in our diet in Bjelovar-Biogorje County colorectal cancer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33414	Did you say Mrs. Carmela, ham that she's unhealthy? Replication response, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33415	Thank you very much. Both prosciutto and ham is raw meat. But you're right. But that's what we say all the time, and we don't do anything. They're public health actions. The last public health action on anything was 4.5 years ago. We've passed the Smoking Act, petitions against smoking are being written. Of course I support, that I support a law like this. But I don't support such hypocrisy that we don't have a single public health action on food, on harmful habits, on smoking. You understand. The law is passed, it's banned, there's interference, people are fired, it's not done on Sundays. Our tasks are public health actions. So it's for the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education, don't forget, every 4th child, maybe your child is "overweight", is excessive body weight in Croatia. Every fourth child, every third child in America, and that's something we have to be very, very worried about. Thank you very much, by the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33416	Thank you. Mr. Representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33417	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I have to say at this point when we have this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Protection Act, that I support it and that I look forward to any progress in this area that will lead to minor injuries to work. However, I am saddened by the fact that the amendments and additions of this law are actually passed because we are harmonising our legislation with the European Union and not because we have analysed the functioning of the existing law in practice and therefore proposed amendments and additions that will lead to minor injuries at work. We all agree that injuries to work are consequences, treatment, something that needs to be reduced to an absolute minimum. However, if we also have the fact here that up to 60% of the injuries at work are due to the fact that no means of protection are applied, then why have we not installed certain mechanisms in this bill that will affect it? It's not just a matter of punishing employers, it's the easiest thing to write. Let us increase the sentences of employers, put all responsibility on employers, and expect that something important will change. He won't. What should be done when any amendments to the law are analysed are key elements which are not satisfied with the application of the existing ones and installed in new draft laws to make them more meaningful. I had so much to say. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33418	Mr. Representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33419	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will try to say the same short thing about amendments and additions to the Labour Protection Act. First of all, I will say that I support compliance with the European Union directives regardless of what we do twice a year. It explains that there has been a change in staff on the negotiating team, I'd say we probably didn't do something right. I do not believe that because of the staff changes in the negotiating team, re-amendments and additions to the Labour Protection Act are required. But certainly what is fundamental in this law is and what we all support together is that we are to protect the health of workers at work, to increase safety, to prevent injuries, professional diseases, everything that can be given and to increase standards, I would also say above these standards that are prescribed by the European Union directives. However, I would like to mention Article 5(2), where it is said that, in the end, the application of this article is delayed until Croatia enters the European Union. That provision shall ensure that at its request, once every three years, a preventive health check is provided to the worker. So we postpone that until we enter the European Union. This is reflected in the cost, the increased cost, although it is found that these preventive checks will likely affect the improvement of the health status of workers in the economy. Here, I would say one basic provision, one basic newspaper is happening until Croatia enters the European Union, so we do not provide for our workers immediately to be able to use this right of preventive health checks and I would say that this is totally unacceptable and certainly and hypocritical because on the one hand we are fighting for both workers' health protection and for the improvement of safety, and for the prevention of injuries and we are not prepared to provide workers with or the promoter is not ready to immediately provide workers with the possibility to go to preventive health checks and we know that these preventive health checks can significantly improve the general health of employees. Certainly, we talked here and about the Law on the Restriction of Use of Tobacco Products and other segments, but I would say this hypocrisy is not good and I think it would be good to delete this article, i.e. that preventive health checks allow everyone to make changes and supplement laws themselves, because it is a European norm and I believe that we are pursuing European norms and in that part of the law. The problem of labour protection inspectors and the medicine itself is still mentioned here, meaning a insufficient number of employees or highly trained people who will oversee the implementation of this law and certainly in segment and medicine work that is extremely important. We know, privatisation has brought its own and, on the other hand, an insufficient number of professionals or doctors working on these jobs, certainly reduces the possibility and prevention of changes and additions to the laws themselves. That's it. I am in favour of amending this article, which provides that the application of this section is to be delayed, means Article 5(2) of the Law, which refers to preventive health checks every three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33420	Thank you. Mr. Representative Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33421	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's how we arranged for me and my colleague from Istria to discuss the basis of this law, but it's not well burned again what my colleague said earlier. We felt and assured us that the adoption of laws that we are harmonising with Europe is necessary and that we should bring them into the urgent process, you have assured us every time such laws come to us for this debate that we do not, of course, bring such laws because of the pressure of Europe or Europe, but rather because of ourselves and that such laws should be part of Croatian legislation, which will thus be closer to European laws and that we must start acting Europeanly and in any other legislation, unrelated to the date of entry into Europe. We see some laws as the pressure of Europe and then we read them or we don't read them well enough. Some when they come as written as this law, then some senior colleagues and colleagues may recall that we may have had something similar in a system as well, so we waited for Europe to tell us again that it was a very smart thing to come back to this door again. But it's hard for us to admit that we lived in Europe in some time, but only then did we not know. Also, every law we make, I always look at it where it says how much it costs. And here he says that it doesn't cost anything, because unfortunately this concern about employees, the care of workers, the care to be right in Europe and to act European is not that simple because it still costs a little bit. But since we don't have money for these important things, we have money for other things, then we won't apply that law until we enter Europe. And when we do, no one knows, no one knows, no Jackna knows, so maybe one day we will. But all those days until the entry into Europe, then what my colleague Ostojić and my colleague from Istria said was, I was deeply convinced that there are good and bad people, that there are hypocritical and two-faced people, but now we have found that there is a government that can be both two-faced and hypocritical. Because in this way as it offers us a European law in which, at least if they didn't write it in their explanation, they say there could be an increased cost of funding for special health care at work and for the implementation of the prescribed right of workers but only after the Republic of Croatia has joined full membership in Europe. However, this law says the same thing in the reason that these preventive health checks are also likely to affect the improvement of the general health status of the working-age population, prevent possible labour injuries and occupational diseases in which this right could also affect the reduction of the cost of sickness and treatment of occupational injuries and occupational diseases and extend the working-life of workers. Absolutely correct, but that's not what we're interested in in in this time of year until they're in Europe. And then it shows all the hypocrisy of this authority that something like that does not recognize it well, but we will apply it and pay only when we enter the European Community. I really don't believe that in Croatia or in the Shuker budget there is not enough resources for us to start applying this law immediately if it is as quality as we have read in the explanation and that it concerns a segment of working people who will extend the working age. If that is of interest to us, then we should find the means and abolish that provision that this law applies only when we enter Europe and start applying it again immediately. Because an orderly state, as counterpart Ostojić says, is also recognized in the fact that it will not spend unnecessary resources somewhere in some imaginary projects that will not bring divine benefits but will indeed take first and foremost care of its people. And this way shows how this government will take care of its people, its employees one day only when we enter Europe. Unfortunately, it is also shown by this law which is good and where good intentions are, that we are becoming more hypocritical and that we are taking less and less care of our people, Croatian people, especially those who work. There are fewer of them than these others, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33422	Thank you. Final Review State Secretary Tamara Obradović-Mazal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33423	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a surmising debate I would actually look back at everything, to the whole debate and I would estimate that this move and this proposal is good and that the common denominator for this bill is actually one positive green light because, today, it could be heard during the debate, it can only contribute to further improvement and further improve the complete system of protection of the health of our employees, our employees in the employers' companies. It is recognised that the segment strengthens the employer's obligations to take care of employees, to include them in the whole process, design and implementation of the work protection system. So, in this segment and our public following us, we too can see by our debate not only this law but also by the debate that supports this law on the side, the one weaker side, the side which must, among other things, during working time, also take care of its health and its safety. When we talk about the reasons why we are here today, there were a few references to the fact that here in the year we are, for the second time, in front of the Croatian Assembly with this law. Yes, it is true that someone else in my place, including those respected parliamentary MPs who made that remark that anyone today in my place would be forced to say the same thing, perhaps not go that far, should still have little confidence in those 2,000 people who work in negotiations and water and negotiate and terminate all the obligations that impose on us the pace of negotiations. A little more trust in our own people, in our own administration, and those experts who lead us to Europe because it's automatically assumed, I quote, that we probably did something wrong. Here with full responsibility I can only repeat that indeed in the general administration responsible for Chapter 19, there has been that kind of human change that has requested the return of the whole thing to zero, the revision of the law and, of course, the context of this technical assessment of this compliance higher than the own assessment they have made. Of course, in that entire segment, no one will feel sorry for the side that can and must... or that party which must return and write down those provisions which have already been agreed once in 2008. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The principle of negotiations is also the principle of this whole process, it's not over until it's over. It does not exclude the possibility that under any law, we will not find ourselves in the Croatian Parliament again, because someone has missed something, because there is still something further to be explained. It's just like that, we've taken that commitment and we're dealing with it. But I do appeal to one trust with the people who do this job. Do not automatically sum up at first that we have done something wrong because there are a number of areas, there are a number of laws, especially the item of the agenda and the whole segment that follows after the debate on this point where we have done very well in fact where we are very well recognised and commended. So, we have, if you may, also very bright moments in our work. As regards the point of which the debate may be the most discussed and the financing of preventive health checks in work outside of those employees who, with a description of their jobs and jobs, are not covered by that first primary health and safety system at work, therefore, who may request such preventive medical examination. At the National Council for Protection at work on the occasion of the debate of this law and on the occasion of seeing all the angles how to further improve the assessment of all those involved in the National Council for Protection at Work is that, as the cost falls to the expense of the Croatian Institute, it is co-financed and, of course, one large part of its income comes from a rate of contribution that does not increase and will not increase it is that this provision, of course, is positive as it is, and therefore, it is about its own requirements for a preventive health check that simple financial resources will eventually not be enough to meet the requirement for this own health review initiative. And we, both with the Ministry of Health and with all the institutions involved in this issue at the level of the National Council, had to face the fact that here's this really positive provision at this point won't be able to be monitored with certain financial resources. There were a lot of words, and I wouldn't want to bother anyone by looking individually at certain aspects, but just to say that the review of HITROREZ made it clear that the government had abolished the sublegal act concerning the hazard assessment at the workplace. The HITROREZ Unit has indeed proposed to the Government the abolition of this Regulation. The government rejected that recommendation and kept that rule in force, so it is still there, it is among us, it is alive and applied daily in practice. So the assessment of the dangers that can therefore endanger health and protection at work is still in effect and we have taken this into account, considering its importance, refused even though it was a recommendation. There were also a few reminders of the activities we need to do. The first point referred to the Day of Protection at Work on April 28th, on that very day we also held at the Ministry of Economy a round table this year precisely on the subject of a kind of summation of the protection system at work as it is today, and on that occasion and by discussing and future outlines of the law that is before you today. We consider the sanctions imposed by this law appropriate. In the debate, it could be heard that they must be stricter to those discussions that went into the segment that actually sanctions shouldn't be because they burden employers. These are, of course, two extremely conflicting options. We are still for sanctions, yet we have proposed to the Parliament, which we have accepted and positively assessed, that an employer who does not adhere to this law be adequately fined and punished. In addition to protecting the work, there was, of course, a reference to the segment that we are doing on unemployment. Afterwards, and through this ministry, the Government is very positively taking care of sensitive groups of workers who have lost their jobs, to retrain themselves, to find and enable themselves to find a new job, a new job. And I remind you in the context of the often mentioned "Salonite" and asbestos, I remind you of the very intensive actions of this government and the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Environmental Protection Fund that is now focused on the recovery of the factory, on providing healthcare to workers as well as landfills in the immediate vicinity. I think it's public, and we as an institution, and I think we've followed up on exactly that kind of activity so that this locality can be resolved when it comes to asbestos. I thank you again for the debate. I thank the committees and thank all those who have submitted the amendments that we will manifest on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33424	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33425	Moving on, please? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33426	Mr. President, we certainly voted on that on Wednesday. There were 80 of us and something and the gentleman took an oath.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33427	We didn't. There was one slip. They wouldn't have put this on me if it wasn't for one slip. So you wouldn't happen to be looking at the record, so you noticed that, so here's what we did again. We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on protection at work. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 340. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Committee for Legislatives, MP Ljubica Lukačić and representative of Luka Denon. I would like a representative of the government, Mrs Tamara Obradović Mazal, State Secretary to be shown about the amendments. First, the Legislative Committee on Article 20.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33428	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33429	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. The same committee on Article 25.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33430	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33431	It becomes an integral part of the bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33432	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33433	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Ms Ljubica Lukačić, amendment in Article 1. What?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33434	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33435	Sustained. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. And Mr. Luke Denon's representative on Article 70.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33436	The government does not accept for nomotechnical and essential reasons. The amendment is proposed in Article 70 which does not exist in the amendments and amendments themselves. Secondly, as far as the core part is concerned, the proposal cannot be accepted because the position, rights and powers of the labour protection commissioners are not the same as those of the elected members of the working council who participate in the decision-making process, i.e. the co-decision with regard to the working-social position of workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33437	Thank you. Mr. Luke Denon, please. He's gone. We vote by raising our hands. Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Protection Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. I suggest you change your hands, and when the law is to be electronic. Let's get involved and vote. I'm asking for a result. This final bill was adopted by the majority of votes, 104 votes for and 4 abstentions, nothing against along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33438	We are going to the next item - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on accreditation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 342 The Proposer is Government. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate carried out by the Committees on Law, European Integration and the Economy. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary Tamara Obradovic Mazal will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33439	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here the Government has sent to Parliament the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements on Accreditation, which, of course, we are taking in addition to taking in, and it is very recent, the last regulation of 2008 that we are also carrying out further qualitative shifts in terms of the truly exceptional achievements that the Croatian Accreditation Agency and the complete quality infrastructure achieved in this section which, of course, of the other five general laws, are working in the area of quality infrastructure. These five horizontal laws, which belong to the Accreditation Act, come from the Stabilisation and Association Agreement of Article 73, which is the Law on Standardisation, the Law on Measurement, the Act on General Product Safety and the Act on Technical Requirements for Products which you will also soon discuss and have an opportunity to discuss in the Assembly which you will receive on your benches. Together, these five horizontal general laws, of course with the corresponding Accreditation Act, constitute a regulatory package that regulates the procedures for placing products on the market, market surveillance, conformity assessment of products with regulations, technical regulations and norms, the professional competence of institutions themselves, institutions within quality infrastructures that assess the conformity of products and measures to achieve the credibility of the results of the examination, certification, inspections and any other technical actions prescribed by those laws. What I would like to point out is that accreditation is an internationally recognised means of proving skills on a voluntary basis, not on a mandatory basis, and this is for carrying out measurements, testing, inspection activities, as well as certification of products, certification of persons, as well as whole quality management systems, which are covered by a common concept of conformity assessment. The assessment of compliance with the rules and norms may only be carried out by qualified institutions that have previously passed the appropriate verification and possess valid evidence thereof. And our National Accreditation Body has the task of carrying out independent training assessments in accordance with international and European standards, as well as the instructions and recommendations of the European Accreditation Organisation, the International Laboratory Accreditation Organisation, as well as the International Accreditation Forum. Membership in these organisations and the conclusion of multilateral agreements are supposed to recognise the results of the examination, the measurement of certification, inspections in international proportions. So, the recognition of our procedures as well as the products passing those procedures on external markets outside the Republic of Croatia. In this segment, accreditation as a green light and a person and a system and a product is an essential factor, a crucial, crucial moment of national quality infrastructure and in some way the last step in assessing the conformity of products, processes and services in one country especially when they all find their place, i.e. trying to find their place in the external markets. At that time, the entire quality infrastructure system is clearly in question and it is good and it is positive when it is accepted beyond national borders. In this respect, we have brought an extremely large number of new technical regulations in the accession process to the European Union. In this segment, I would draw attention to a very complex chapter of negotiations – Freedom of movement of goods, Chapter I. where we had to establish the entire national quality infrastructure made up of institutions responsible for measurement, standardisation and accreditation for the need of new technical legislation. And our task, therefore, is also to help train laboratories, certification and inspection organisations to the level of the mentioned international acceptability. Why are we bringing amendments to the Accreditation Act? In August 2008, the European Union adopted a new legal framework within which we are moving when it comes to the accreditation process, when it comes to the product accreditation package, which regulates the area of placing products on the internal market of the European Union. The 2008 accreditation and market surveillance Regulation will apply in the Member States from 1.1.2010. So, like other Member States, we want to be ready to make full use of these amendments in the internal market. In addition, by adopting this Regulation, the European Accreditation Organisation has become a European accreditation infrastructure. Accreditation becomes practically mandatory in proving the ability to implement product rules, and the national accreditation body must be a member of the European Accreditation Organisation. The component of the European Commission's recommendation is, of course, the starting point of the 2003 law analysis. In view of the new regulation, what we had to do, what we wanted to do was to complement the existing law on accreditation with reference to the membership of the national accreditation body in the European Accreditation Organisation, the prohibition of competition of the national accreditation body in conformity assessment bodies' affairs. And termologically, of course, we are carrying out compliance with the Accreditation Regulation, where we directly cite conformity assessment tasks. The amendments and additions were made exactly according to these recommendations. We have passed technical consultations with the European Commission and on this text that we have referred to you to the Parliament we have received a positive indication of the European Commission does not exclude the possibility of staff changes on their part and in this segment and re-entry to the Parliament if the Commission changes its opinion. I would also like to remind myself of the successes of accreditation and our Agency for Accreditation in the international field, so I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Croatian accreditation agency became a full member of the European Accreditation Agency in 2005. Also encouraged by its successes and recognition of the quality of its work Croatian accreditation agency in 2007 submitted a request for... i.e. for its own evaluation of the internal organisation of work and way of business. [[The speaker speaks English, not understood.]] The European Organisation's evaluation group visited the Croatian accreditation agency in June 2008. A decision was taken to continue the evaluation of the Croatian accreditation agency in 2009. The evaluation process will also end in 2010 followed by the recognition of accreditation with other members of the European Accreditation Organisation. Also, the Croatian Accreditation Agency is a member of the International Laboratory Accreditation Organisation and its rules of conduct and work are based on the rules of the organisation. The Croatian accreditation agency will also have direct access to full membership and the signing of multilateral agreements at the International Laboratory Accreditation Organization, which means recognition of Croatian accreditation at the world level and recognition of all accredited laboratories, i.e. their survey reports. So briefly on the law itself and on the institutional framework within which accreditation works. I thank all the committees for the debate and, of course, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33440	Thank you. The committees? Legislative? European integration? The economy? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, Mr Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33441	Honored Mr. Vice-President, Ms. Secretary of State, honored directors of the Croatian Accreditation Agency, honored both colleagues and fellow MPs. In these turbulent times of recession, global crises, globalization of the economy, at the moment of non-tariff barriers to free collage of goods, people, capital and services. The only defense for the invasion of bad goods and services is quality infrastructure. In the Republic of Croatia, happiness on this bumper is not perhaps an army, but one very, very well-trained and motivated brigade of people working in the field of accreditation, normisation, measurement, conformity studies etc. This law is very, very short. There are only 3 articles of which one is essentially a termological nature, but these other two articles are extremely important and determine in some way a course of infrastructure, quality, but also the way in which the Croatian state should behave in similar situations. For example, in Article 73 of the Treaty on European The Stabilisation and Association Agreement is conditioned that Croatia is required to meet the criteria for admission to full membership of the European Union to have a functional quality infrastructure and this is demonstrated by an article requiring those organisations to be members of relevant international institutions, but now this law requires, in accordance with European practice, that the Croatian accreditation agency be a member of the European Accreditation Organisation and that it concludes a multilateral agreement on the recognition of accreditation with other EA members, i.e. European accreditation. The second article prohibits the accreditation body from competing with conformity assessment bodies, so the bodies conducting the tests and evaluations, which kill Croatian accreditation has never worked because that would be the cadium of the prosecution, the cadium judges. You can't credentials, so then I'm still taking away his job or doing similar interrogations. However, the European Commission is likely to be taught some other Croatian disadvantages, and here in this segment it wants to be ensured, although the quality infrastructure headed by the accreditation agency has traditionally received the best commendation and in fact the best assessments of the European Commission's reports and in pre-accession negotiations. Croatia's accreditation has come a long way since its draft, and in fact since it was still operating under the auspices of the State Department for Standardization and Measurement and when it was left alone after those laws that were passed in the autumn of 2003. Today, in Croatia, we have accredited over 140 bodies for the assessment of conformity in a variety of schemes. This is a very, very large number for the weak economy of the Republic of Croatia, but it is a fact that laboratories recognise the need for independent third parties to assess them and confirm their ability to work in areas where they have applied for accreditation, i.e. artificial laboratories, test laboratories, certification organisations, etc. The Croatian accreditation agency also provides support to different ministries because the ministries, which is extremely good, are the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Economy. In many laws in which, the Ministry of Environmental Protection also, in many laws requiring certain institutions to be appointed for certain examinations, when they are authorised by the ministries for certain tests, however, legislation requires such laboratories to be accredited themselves, so that their competence is examined by an independent body, which is therefore in some way to serve a dictionary of quality infrastructure, the traceability of this law which makes it impossible for an accreditation agency to carry out such tests, but therefore must also be accredited by European accreditation, but also authorised bodies that appoint the ministries must prove their own competence. It's a shame we're not so consistent with other quality infrastructure components. For example, as the Stabilisation and Association Agreement also mentioned that Croatia must also have a national measuring institute operating in the area of illegal measurement, however, unfortunately the institute has not yet been established, although the government itself has made one decision to do so. Fortunately, the moderate laboratories that continue to form today are also accredited to the Croatian accreditation agency and support the entire quality infrastructure, but it should be noted that in Euromet as a European measuring organisation, they are dissatisfied with the current situation and are constantly questioning when this dysfunction of the national measuring institute is actually being resolved in Croatia, which is still being played by the National Monitoring Institute. This should certainly be corrected as soon as possible to be in that part of consistency and to comply with the obligations made by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The Croatian accreditation agency is working very hard. Unfortunately, there are also some problems in the sense that she has become a victim of her own success, and there has been a problem with the narrow grail in the staff since new employment is impossible. And the problem is that the funds the Croatian accreditation agency earns on the market cannot, unfortunately, be used to develop its own activities. Otherwise, I am also taking this opportunity to, with all the praises given by the State Secretary to the Croatian Accreditation Agency, congratulated and to Mrs. Biserki Bajzek Bezak for becoming a member of the Executive Committee of European Accreditation, which is a very, very large recognition. But the recognition of the person who has been on the defender of quality infrastructure for years and who has certainly earned such a responsible place in the European Quality Infrastructure with his mar and effort, but also with knowledge and results. I personally hope that we will soon have opportunities in the Republic of Croatia to see the results of the implementation of Article 2 of this Law. Since an evaluation by the European Accreditation Agency is planned within a month, after which we can expect to meet this condition in Article 2 and that the Croatian Accreditation Agency will be successfully evaluated and a multilateral recognition agreement with the European Accreditation will be concluded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33442	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Maric's Club of HDZ Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33443	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected State Secretary, respected directors of the Croatian Accreditation Agency, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In 2003, the Republic of Croatia passed the Law on accreditation and this was necessary, because accreditation is really important for society as a whole, especially for the national economy, and thus also for the world economy. Later, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is subject to Article 4 of the Regulation. The accreditation law also formed the Croatian accreditation agency as the main accreditation body which has indeed confirmed that it has justified its establishment and proved very effective. The law on accreditation and the regulation on the establishment of a Croatian accreditation agency has proved both necessary and good. It has contributed in many ways to the Croatian economy, especially in an increasingly pronounced phenomenon, to the economic development of goods and services exchanges. Indeed, in recent years, the Croatian market and the world market have been flooded by the same products, similar products or substitutions. But as every phenomenon has both advantages and disadvantages, so does this phenomenon of many products, many of the same, similar products or substituts have many major advantages, and that is, first of all, more pronounced competition, which is being developed by the market, which by auto-prices fall, which is more accessible to the final customer. But there is also a problem of lack of quality, a variety of fake products, and there is a very important role of accreditation and accreditation bodies, and in Croatia it is a Croatian accreditation agency. Accreditation is also important because it is a procedure whereby an accreditation body values a particular institution. It confirms that the procedure confirms whether the institution is professionally and technically equipped to work in accordance with international established standards and rules. The accreditation law is one of the so-called horizontal technical laws governing the placing of products on the market. It shall also include the professional technical competence of legal and natural persons who are competent national authorities to assess the conformity of the product with the prescribed conditions. The Croatian accreditation agency, as an accreditation body, supports the quality guarantee mostly through implementing technical legislation, which reduces the risk of business, but increases competitiveness on the national and world markets. This proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Accreditation Act only adds to one gentle shade the final colour of this good law to only three articles in three minor amendments, which are seen primarily in the harmonisation of the very terminology of accreditation with the terminology of the European Union and is defined as a procedure officially confirmed by an independent accreditation body by a legal or natural person that is able to carry out conformity assessment tasks. The second article also obliges the membership of an accreditation body such as the Croatian accreditation agency, membership in the European accreditation organisation and the obligation to conclude multilateral agreements on the recognition of accreditation of other members of the European Union. Another small change is also being introduced, to prohibit competition from the accreditation body of the institution that is accredited, which is quite logical. The accreditation law, together with these proposed amendments and additions, will contribute even more to the Croatian economy in many ways and can be used mainly in that these reliable surveys and measurements will reduce production costs and we know how much production costs are, how much they affect competitiveness on the market. The lower production costs are competitiveness and these reliable studies result in a decrease in production costs. Reliable studies and measurements also reduce product shortages and product shortages also have a negative impact on both the overall costs and the competitiveness of the market. This leads to the fact that the most accreditation is actually saving both time and money, and that is most important in the economy, who, under the same conditions, will produce as much product-satisfactory quality as possible under the same conditions. It is a success, measuring the success of each organization and, of course, with as little effort as possible of human potential. Accreditation also promotes innovation, encourages innovation, helps to assess risks because accreditation is a risk indication. It also helps and contributes to seeing the objectivity of each company's business system, facilitating and accessing new markets. Therefore, the multiple advantages of accreditation are multiple advantages of the Law on Accreditation, which will contribute to the competitiveness of the Croatian economy in the world environment at a minimum. The HDZ Club supports such changes and additions and will vote for their adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33444	Thank you. Club of representatives of the CNS Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33445	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, Madam Director, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning, I will say that the Croatian People's Party club will support this bill. We will support it first of all for reasons and we think that this should be said here to Croatian citizens for reasons because this gradual alignment with the technical regulations and other regulations of the European Union will certainly help increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, that the application of the law will improve the safety of products on our market, that it will help protect health in particular safety at work, in the application of individual appliances, equipment, that it will help to protect the environment, given that certain standards must be met and that consumers themselves will be protected from buying what the people say in the bag. However, I must say that a group of young people from Rijeka called me, opened up on the website this law and in an explanation of the assessment of the situation and the reasoning of the law did not come across the answers they asked for, so they asked me to ask you the State Secretary and the Director here to ask you the following questions, so let me go in order. Since the Croatian accreditation agency has been operating for several years now, their question is how many employees today work in the Croatian accreditation agency, which is all the profession, in which way people are perfected in view of the growing and greater demands on their necessary expertise so that they can do this important job at all, then over the past four years, how many legal and physical persons have received accreditation and for which areas. Furthermore, one of the issues was also related to Article 2 of the Law proposal. Recognition of accreditation of other members of the European Union or of EA members. The question was whether, for example, an Austrian body which was authorised to assess compliance could be asked to assess the conformity of the product for a Croatian importer. We understand that this means that what has been given conformity in Austria can be exported to other EU Member States. Problem solved. But here's an interesting question. The Croatian importer asks the Austrian authority for a conformity assessment, if possible. Furthermore, the accreditation granted under the current law is limited in time, that is, Article 7(6). They're wondering if there's any way to know what period accreditation is given, if it can be done to give a friend something longer, to those we're less familiar with on a shorter deadline. I'm hypothetically asking a question because here in law it certainly doesn't stand and it would be interesting to see what deadline it is. We were also asked an interesting question. The accreditation body shall decide to abolish accreditation when it finds that the accredited body does not meet some of the requirements necessary, etc. Does this mean that those who get accreditation will be supervised, that at 6, 12, 18 months I don't know how to monitor them, that was the question, to see how to actually ensure that they perfect themselves, that they too follow everything they need to follow in order to have a green light to work on longer paths. And there was one more question. The decision referred to in the preceding paragraph may be objected to by the body established, so that is to say the abolition of accreditation, the body established by the statute of the accreditation body. Whoever is above the HAA of the Croatian Accreditation Agency, to whom such a complaint could be referred, we also did not know how to answer the citizens in the club, so here I am now passing the question to you. Finally, our club also developed a debate regarding Articles 9, 10, 12 and 15 of the current law. If you open the law, you will see that time has run a bit over some of that text and since we are changing and supplementing the law whether certain corrections should have been made there and deleted most of the text in the 9th, 10th, 12th and 15th articles. The 15th article discusses this, I do not know when the law enters into force and is applicable from 1 January 2005. In the bill of law, we have no proposal to delete this article. So, purely technically, it seems to us that we should have done more about these four articles. Thank you very much, these are questions and suggestions from the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33446	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33447	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, Director, Honored colleagues and colleagues. In fact, it is certain that it is an extremely important law that our accreditation regulations are harmonised with the European Union, more specifically with European accreditation and market surveillance provisions No 765/08. Why this area of accreditation is extremely important. Namely, one of the most common reasons listed as motive, why it is good and important for our economy to become part of the integrated economic system and markets of the European Union are, above all, standards, standards of safety and product, standards on health and safety at work, standards of environmental protection and consumer protection, quality standards as an extremely important marketing and market category. Therefore, standards in all segments facing which today's market has put high requirements and criteria which need to be met in order for our economy to be competitive in this integrated market. And when it comes to the standards which are and are the preconditions of the competitiveness of the economy then accreditation must be one of the key instruments that gives the entire system credibility. In order to establish standards, it is necessary to have a single evaluation system for why it is important to comply with Community rules and to ensure the independence of accreditation bodies by means of regulations. It is therefore important to adopt this amendment and to supplement the law. Namely, Croatia is not at the beginning of this accreditation business, however, if the 10-year period since '98 is observed. By 2008, 108 bodies were accredited. And it can be said that if we observe from year to year in that period, there is a slight exponential increase. It is important to ensure that, in the future, the accreditation of the largest number of institutions carrying out product testing activities is ensured. In fact, we remember in the past period, not so long ago that we had big problems, for example. with genetically modified organisms with GMOs because our laboratories have established that there is a presence of genetically modified organisms but these could not have been credible findings but we had to look for laboratory findings from neighbouring countries, therefore, from Slovenia, Italy etc. Therefore, it is necessary and important because of the credibility of the system to have accredited laboratories exactly and for cases like these, as was the case with genetically modified organisms where we could not, and it is certain that we would lose all disputes that we only went with the findings from our laboratory that at that time had no accredited methods and were not in themselves accredited to carry out such laboratory analyses. In these situations, too, it is a matter of the speed of discovery of the case, i.e. costing such analyses if it is necessary to work abroad. The situation is absolutely improved in this segment, but it is certain, therefore, that without accredited bodies, therefore, without accredited institutions, we cannot adequately protect our own market. What counterpart Maric said of all products coming from imports. So here's a commendation to the accreditation agency for all the work they've done, done, with a large number of institutions being accredited, a large number of methods have been accredited. And in some ways, our system is getting more and more ready to face this and market game, but it means that we contribute to the credibility of our economic system. Therefore, full support for the law, full support for compliance with EU regulations and all that will contribute to the credibility of the accreditation system because we thus create preconditions for the competitiveness of our products on the EU's integrated market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33448	Thank you. Replica Mr. Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33449	I think I'm going to cheer you up with this replica because one laboratory submitted a request for accreditation in the field of testing genetically modified food and the accreditation agency's assessors, and after some of the problems that were removed in that laboratory, they made a recommendation for the accreditation of the lab. However, the fact is that the Croatian accreditation agency cannot affect the will of the laboratory to be accredited since it is a voluntary area and each laboratory actually assesses on the basis of some of its market positions and marketing advantages whether it is worth it or not to go through this rather exhaustive process to obtain accreditation. It is a good thing that the Government of the Republic of Croatia in many segments encourages the accreditation of laboratories. For that, many ministries have different incentives. But it could be increased by having a wider network of competent laboratories from therefore, a wider range of activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33450	The answer to the replica? ... Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33451	Honored Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, Honored Directors, colleagues and fellow MPs. So, there are few misunderstandings that are actually the functions of the accreditation agency and are considered, from the perception of the public writings of certain articles in certain media and even from a broader context of the discussions that even the MPs in the Assembly have recently conducted, it is evident that it is not yet quite clear that accreditation is essentially a voluntary act that a laboratory wants to prove its competence in certain studies or moderations. It's another thing if a ministry asks for accreditation in a segment of the work of that laboratory, but the fact is that no one can force anyone to do anything. Simply in this case, the laboratory that has been carrying out some activity and has not been accredited will no longer be able to carry out this activity for the government and the ministries' account. Therefore, accreditation is fully voluntary, but it is the fact that it brings a certain marketing advantage, a better position on the market, especially if this accreditation is obtained by a competent agency, which is certainly the Croatian accreditation agency. The position of European accreditation is that national accreditation bodies should not interfere with the accreditation of laboratories outside national territory and that is something that is essentially respected in the Republic of Croatia, although there are exceptions, but these are generally agreed with national accreditation bodies. For example, if there are not enough experts and infrastructures and competences in a country, then it is allowed for laboratories to be accredited to someone else. It should be stressed that the work of the accreditation agency is wider than the accreditation of the laboratory itself, as it also provides support to many ministries in the Republic of Croatia on the way to the European Union. Moreover, the Croatian accreditation agency has also provided considerable assistance in establishing an accreditation agency in some of our Southeast countries, so that, for example, the Croatian accreditation agency with the UKAS British accreditation body played a significant role in Kosovo as the youngest European state, helping them to gain knowledge and skills related to the proper function and quality infrastructure. The European Union is one of the most spectacular peace projects probably in history, but it is interesting that just one precedent related to the liqueurs may have paved the way for a common European market because, following a protest by the French accreditation agency, the doctrine was examined once, accepted everywhere. In other words, if a product has been tested by one laboratory that has been accredited, that examination must be accepted everywhere in all European countries. So it was a precedent in the expansion of the European market, which we are actively on track to support at the moment when the conditions for the Croatian accreditation agency to meet the conditions of European accreditation set before it. Unfortunately, I said that there are also certain problems because the expansion of work, the increased interest in accreditation, also causes the growing number of external experts, experts, because it is obvious that of these 20 people, as far as the Croatian accreditation agency is doing, they cannot satisfy this expert part but are engaged by people from Croatian institutes, laboratories, businesses, hospitals. And if there are no such experts, then the experts from our neighboring or distant countries are engaged. And it all costs money, all of it has to be paid. But of course, that money is being imposed from the very accreditation process that the labs are paying for. This all depends again on the number of methods reported as the final price. However, the fact is that we now have about 140 laboratories accredited in Croatia and bodies for the examination of conformity which is one of the exceptional examples of exponential growth, but not as mild as the colleague said, but rather quite an exponential growth, so if the number of accredited bodies continues to increase according to this curve, then this year we could witness another 50 to 60 bodies that would satisfy it. It is extremely good that this Parliament, in many of the laws that we have passed recently, has recognised the importance of quality infrastructure and accreditation agencies and has built in certain laws a condition that bodies authorised by the Ministrys for example for the examination of noise, for the examination of asbestos, for the certification of electronic signatures, etc. and they themselves must prove their competence in such a way that they must be accredited in an accreditation agency, so in a national accreditation body. And I hope it will be in the future. And as for the problem, I also hope that the Government, Madam Secretary of State, will have the hearing to address the issues of the fact that the money earned by the Accreditation Agency on the market, unfortunately, cannot be so easily used even for the spread of the job itself, and do not give God for the sharing of stimulation for example to employees who are really very, very busy at luck lately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33452	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33453	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. First commendation to this law. A little while ago, the State Secretary spent a lot of time apologizing or commending her members. But that doesn't require working groups, so you'll be accredited by others if I can use that word. Commendation to this law or to all of us who have ever written anything in our life work, book, compendium or law is the easiest first step. It's easy to write. The other one is significantly harder, it is difficult to shorten and therefore commend this law because you clearly wrote it well and shortened it. And the third most important thing is to implement, and that's what we're going to evaluate and accredit you in a few months. Anyway, it's a great thing because this is definitely a dam for bad products, bad procedures, bad guidelines, bad medical products, bad medical guidelines, and it's on the trail of the previous law if I can quote an explanation. Therefore, improvements and safety of products, health protection and safety at work. It's a finished quote. So, right on the trail of the previous safety code on the job is this law, and that's why you definitely need to back it up. As far as health is concerned, I definitely think that on the trail of bad products that, food products that are found here and there on our market, what we do very quickly, if it isn't already opening today, are generic products, generic medicines. The pharmaceutical industry is globally in a major crisis, it's in crisis because there's less and less innovative drugs, less and less drugs that are blockbusters. So they make money, and they say it's a blockbuster when they make a million dollars a year. The last blockbuster was five, six years ago. And the pharmaceutical industry is working the switch towards the generic industry. And what's the generic industry? Generically good, good generic drugs are equivalent to the original drugs. But you and I, we all know that there's a stock market of bad generic drugs produced in the Far East, and they rarely pack in garages, warehouses, basements and get their label, get their label and come to our markets. In the end, there's a lot of doctors, you know what your patients tell you, that they bought drugs online who knows where, who knows how and who knows where. That is why it is extremely important for this law, as the State Secretary stressed and described, so to protect the health of all our citizens, safety at work, and I cannot mention asbestos again because Franic had just re-absorbed it. I'm coming from Rebra. For me, the first hospital at ten meters is the Jordanian Clinical Hospital, a hospital for pulmonary diseases, which is covered with salonite and asbestos. Maybe it's a paradox and maybe it's the first task not just of these Accreditation agencies, but of some inspections by the Ministry of Economy. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33454	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Tamara Obradović Mazal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33455	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This time a much shorter explanation. I'm obliged to answer a few questions from a respected Mr. Representative. The number of professions, the improvement of 24, engineers of all the professions of 200 external experts as associates, perfecting through European Union projects where I highlight twinning, twinning light and tachyx projects, internal training where one who is already certified train other partners for further certification, exchange with other accreditation bodies. It means pir of exchange and work in the bodies of European accreditation. How many legal and natural persons have received accreditation and for which areas. 140 institutions that have passed the accreditation of 84 testing laboratories, 12 moderate laboratories, 30 inspection bodies, 3 certification bodies for quality management systems, one certification body for the environmental management system, one certification body for persons, seven for products and two medical laboratories in the field of construction, food, environmental protection, industrial products. A further 90 different conformity assessment bodies are in the accreditation process as a result of the request for new technical regulations. Thirdly, if we understand the question well and Mrs. Baizek and I, the answer is yes and no. Product that, therefore product you can, I think you can go to Austria and pass the accreditation procedure for the product, but not for yourself. Since last year, the new regulation of the European Commission is seeking the locality of the accreditation procedure towards the country from which you come except where your own country does not have a national accreditation body but under the agreement may leave the accreditation procedure to another State on the basis of that agreement. When it comes to the product, of course, always and I would say that this is the purpose of this mutual recognition of the conformity assessment process, i.e. the accreditation process. But I'm saying no to the accreditation procedure for myself. The period of accreditation is 5 years, 5 years. Now, in those five years every year, surveillance is carried out mandatory. And after 5 years, the whole process or re-accreditation or re-accreditation takes place, depending on whether circumstances have changed in which an accredited institution is working, primarily whether there has been a change in the method, or whether there has been a change in equipment and of course whether there has been a change in the personnel with the accompanying change in methods and equipment. What is the duty of each accredited to make, regardless of the range of 5 years or on an annual basis, it is the duty to report any change of such condition. So, every year, after 5 years of reaccreditation or accreditation, depending on what level and how important compared to the original accredited environment, further circumstances have changed. Above the Croatian accreditation agency for legality in the business of the Ministry of Science, for the activity of the Ministry of Economy, and when we enter the European Union, European accreditation which can also be declared in the future appeal against the national accreditation body. I hope these answers are the answers you asked for. I thank the others for the debate in support of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33456	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing at 3 p.m. with a debate on the final draft of the Mining Act continues on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33457	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Accreditation. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 342. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would ask the lady to make a statement on the proposed amendment of the Legislative Committee to Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33458	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33459	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Article 4
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33460	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33461	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Article 5
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33462	Article 5 The government accepts the proposal that the quotes end after the word “after” and that the word “publisher” remains, because when we nomotechnically put it in the article from the day we remove the announcement we have a lack of words of publication. It's accepted like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33463	To the State Secretary's explanation. Thank you. I therefore vote on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on accreditation. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority of votes, 103 votes for and 5 abstentions, nothing against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33464	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session and the debate on - the final proposal of the Mining Act, the emergency procedure, P.Z.E. Number 344 Proposer is Government. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debates carried out by the Committee on Law and European Integration, the economy, environmental protection, development and reconstruction and spatial planning and construction. You received the reports at the session. The Government submitted amendments in accordance with Article 169. The rules of procedure become an integral part of the final draft law. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Law and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. State Secretary Tamara Obradovic Mazal will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33465	I thank Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here's a little less than a year ago, we had a chance to discuss the Mining Act first reading. Meanwhile, the Law on concessions was adopted, so of course the new legal framework also had a duty and a need to further develop this final draft law so that the tender for a mining concession could be adapted to the Law on concessions. However, let me just remind myself of this debate from last year and point to the fact that this debate, which has been conducted, was of great quality both on committees and on the tide, has greatly contributed to a better draft and an even better law, is here in this form of a final bill, and I thank this opportunity for this contribution. For the same reasons as last year, we propose a new Mining Act. Namely, in the context of Chapter 15. – Energy and since it is estimated that in the Republic of Croatia this area is not harmonised in the area related to the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. I think, of course, of oil and natural gas under Chapter 15 and as a criterion for closing negotiations on this chapter, we are obliged to carry out compliance specifically with Directive No 22 of '94. the year, which refers to the conditions for granting and using authorisation for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, i.e. oil and gas. The same conditions of the Directive have been applied to other types of mineral raw materials. Speaking of mineral raw materials as last year, we propose a change in the division of mineral raw materials, which is tailored naturally to the specificities and needs of the Republic of Croatia. It is based, of course, on the presence of certain raw materials at the site of the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which I remind you is also processed in the Strategy for the Management of Mineral Raw materials, which we adopted last year, more precisely on 17 July. So here is the new division of energy mineral raw materials, mineral raw materials for industrial processing, mineral raw materials for building material production, mineral metal raw materials and architectural construction stone. We have also intervened in the part relating to the authorisation for the exploration of mineral raw materials, where the common denominator and the basic legal premise is that, in fact, the basis of the public tender gives approval for the exploration of mineral raw materials. So, after the public tender. So far, we have had the exclusive practice of granting such a concession based on the request of an interested mining entity. We are also introducing a new obligation in the context of our future membership in the European Union, which is that from at least 90 days before the deadline for submitting applications, a public tender is published in the Official Journal of the European Community. This norm, this rule will enter into force when Croatia enters the European Union, which will, of course, activate this cross-border element and the possibility of reporting to a tender for obtaining a mining concession. What we are introducing as a novel is paying a fee for researching mineral raw materials in the amount and in the way it is determined in the very approval for research. This fee paid for research shall be determined as a fixed, one amount or may be determined in a variable amount. Of course, depending on the specificities of a particular type of research for which the authorisation is obtained. For example, it will depend on the species, both the volume and the cost of the research work itself. For example, hydrocarbons can be explored by drilling deep wells, an architectural construction stone is investigated exclusively by drilling a well on the core itself. Therefore, both the manner and type and intensity and the technical specification of the works being carried out will also depend on the future fee in a fixed, i.e. variable amount, which will be clearly indicated in advance in the research authorisation for potential applicants, i.e. those who will finally be authorised to carry out the work. We are also developing a section relating to the approval for the exploitation field of mineral raw materials and the award of a concession for the exploitation of mineral raw materials. That we also have a 90-day standard before the end of the application for publication in the Official Journal of the European Community that will be activated by Croatia's entry into the European Union. And what we do in the approval section is, of course, concession and approval based on a public tender. I recall again, the applicable legal regime gave such concession the basis of an interested mining economic operator. And in this section relating to the exploitation of mineral raw materials, provisions concerning the compensation itself are also changed. As you know, based on the existing mining legal regime, the amount of compensation was still 2.6% of the total revenue generated by the sale of mineral raw materials in the exploitation field. What we are proposing now is the payment of the cash compensation for the concession for the exploitation of mineral raw materials in the amount and the way it will be arranged by the concession agreement itself. As in the previous example, the cash compensation will be either the same amount or the variable amount, again depending on the technical specificities of a particular type of concession. The concession fee will be the revenue of the state budget, the budget of the units of local and regional self-government and the ratio of the distribution of concession revenue revenues will be elaborated in detail by the sublaw adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There may be a question about the possibility of an equal amount of distribution and the favour of the state budget and individual budgets of local self-government units. Of course, we will further explain this if the need arises in the debate but at this point here we hold that depending on the specificities and depending on how they are exploited, only the possibilities and the placements and the application itself that this ratio requires a little more detailed editing through a specific sublegal act. Of the other important proposals that we are introducing by this law, I would certainly like to highlight something that we have not yet had and also something that we encourage to be set up. On the one hand, it is a unique information system of mineral raw materials for which, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Economy and the Croatian Geological Institute would be responsible. The unique information system of mineral raw materials would be available to all and, of course, it will be networked in its core with a cadastre of research spaces of mineral raw materials fields, which have long been run in the Ministry of Economy. We also determine the treatment of mineral raw materials that are excavated in the construction of buildings which are built in accordance with specific building regulations and last year we discussed very extensively exactly the situations and circumstances of abuse, when the private investor abuses the raw materials that he excavates when building the building and actually still uses it to build the same building or possibly sell further. This is the source of a lot of problems, big financial losses, and we believe that this bill will regulate a rather painful area that has been detected as a major problem in our last debate since last year. In this context, we have also prescribed stricter measures but also stricter criminal provisions in order to prevent illegal exploitation of mineral raw materials, which, of course, includes the confiscation of unlawfully acquired property benefits resulting from illegal exploitation, the dig of mineral raw materials, if not primary activity, but, of course, the secondary result of such digging for the needs of construction. This market value of illegally excavated or extracted mineral raw materials shall not be less than the value of mineral raw material established on the basis of the technological-economic assessment from the laboratory on the reserve for the mineral raw material concerned. For example, if we look at the micro location it speaks of, i.e. the microlocation of the exploitation field and the quality of mineral raw material for the production of construction material, the amount would range from 25 to 30 kuna per cubic metre and for the architectural building stone of 1,000 to 2,000 kuna per cubic metre, for example. The other novels we would suggest, or which we create, for future institutional steps, are the efforts to establish the Croatian chamber of mining, geology and oil mining engineers to promote the profession itself and protect the profession, and also protect and represent the interests of mineral raw materials management. What we encourage by this law after the amendments to the transitional and final provisions is the establishment of such a professional institution as the Croatian Chamber of Engineers, such as the Croatian Chamber of Construction, Geodes and the like. In the segment of the further clarification of the concession bid itself, the Government also submitted its amendment and the need appeared to perhaps a little more detailedly edit the part relating to the tender for obtaining a concession and we were free to improve this Final Proposal for the Mining Act in further stages. In the end, let me thank you for your attention. I should also like to thank all the committees who have held the debate on this final draft of the law, as well as the amendments already at first sight, these amendments will have a significant impact on the even greater quality, clarity, transparency and traceability of the procedures of the Mining Act itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33466	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative DRagutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33467	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I have to correct the quote of a respected State Secretary who said that we had a little something less than a year ago in the Parliament first read the Mining Act. That's not true. On July 9th last year, it was the 5th session of the Parliament's first reading of the Mining Law and since it was six months after first reading the Government did not send a new or final proposal to the Mining Act and now the Mining Act came. It can't be called the first reading of this same law. In fact, you gave me a lot of work because the matter of the law was very good in their memory of what Vice President Shakespeare would say, so I went to find out where I remember it from. Mining law last year and now the Mining Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33468	You have well noticed a comparative comparison with an exemplar example in an obvious way. Before we continue the debate, I suggest that MP Ivan Drmic take an oath. SDP representative club, Mr Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33470	Dear Mr. Vice President, honored Madam Secretary of State with associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. It is more than clear that mining is a specific activity that is inevitably in contact with a number of areas and laws relating to spatial planning, environmental protection, water protection, agricultural land, etc. The fact is that the non-compliance of these laws and mutual exclusions in certain cases creates significant problems and controversial situations that result in a whole series of pending cases. However, according to Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia of natural resources such as water, land, airspace and ore treasure, land, forests and other natural resources that the law stipulates that they are of interest to the Republic of Croatia have its special protection. Thus, the provisions of this law, which are before us, relate to the exploration, exploitation of mineral raw materials found in the country or on its surface, over the river, lake, river, lake or seabed or below, in the internal sea waters or territorial seas of the Republic of Croatia or in the Adriatic Sea, outside the state area to the border with neighbouring countries. So this time I congratulate the ministry that here is ZERP, or ZEP because we turned off the fishing component, but maybe it's coming back to the small door. However, this law, which is before us and as noted by fellow Lesar, is in fact some extension of that law that we had at the debate in the Croatian Parliament last year but which died. Maybe he died because of the fact that we discussed it in detail and because of the numerous remarks that we made here, the Ministry realized that the law was not good. So here's a new proposal that's unfortunately even worse. This proposal has tried like that story about and this proposal has tried like that of the Achilles and the Turtles because, while Achilles took one step, the Turtle, etc., and never could, they could never catch up. So the associations that were to participate in this proposal, such as the Croatian Mining Engineers' Association, have always received a version of the law that was one or two levels lower than the current version. In the design of spatial plans, the most common case is that mineral raw materials, i.e. the potential research or exploitation fields do not simply draw because of the unexploredness and indetermination of potential deposits of mineral raw materials. However, since spatial plans cannot be changed on a daily basis, it is impossible to change the purpose of a specific location from the one provided for in the spatial plan. Furthermore, in some cases spatial plans provide for an investigative space but not the possibility of exploitation. In this case, the question of the purpose and justification of the costs of investigative works is raised and who will bear them. On the other hand, there are also cases where no existing exploitation fields exist in spatial plans, which are simply deleted by the proposal of a few powerful men in public debates or in the process of supplementing spatial plans at the will of various hunting, which opens up the possibility of political corruption. Although this latest draft of the final draft of the mining law has been introduced in a nomotechnical way to a legible level but still without any explanation and assessment of the consequences of the application of such a legal proposal in a context of content, it is poor, unacceptable and impregnable. In the rich history of mining legislation, it is continuously recognizable to the purpose of mining. Research, exploitation of mining wealth, non-renewable natural wealth owned by the state, the importance of the profession in national, in the management of national resources, care for the rational use of mineral raw materials beds and the restoration of reserves, protection from dangers and concerns for people and the environment, but such access is defacto rudely interrupted by this law. The latest draft of the final draft of the Mining Law has been a number of important issues that have been clearly regulated by the legislation so far, and has been delegated to the arbitration discretionary domain of ministers and ministries. In this way, the new Draft of the Final Law on Mining becomes significantly more non-transparent than the current law, thus directly contradicting the declared purpose of the amendments. In addition to worse proposals to address issues in the current scope of the law, this draft literally obstructs a number of attempts to form an appropriate engineering chamber. First, an initiative was rejected to form a class in the Croatian Chamber of Architecture of Engineers in Construction, then rejected the proposal to set up a Croatian chamber of engineers and technologists, where the engineers of the mining and geological profession would also have their equal place. That the promoter does not understand the purpose of establishing an engineering chamber is visible from a number of provisions of the proposed mining law in which all professional mining business can be entrusted exclusively to legal persons. Furthermore, in Article 4 of this Act, which defines mineral raw materials within the meaning of this Act in the current version of the law, the sequence of the use of mineral raw materials was in some way their value order, so it was easy to identify which raw material of the higher order was compared to the raw material of the lower order in any dispute. But it's not done now. The question arises who and by what criteria will evaluate what is the raw material of the higher order. It should also be noted that, at today’s level of technological development, the harmful effects of mining can be reduced to the least possible extent and, for example, noise, dustiness, seismic effects, if excavation is carried out using explosives, can indeed be reduced to the lowest possible level. But that's why you need a waist. And this law is as if it was built in a way that it was doing some kind of weird sandwich of a little ecology, a little mining, a little economy, a little legal profession, etc. It is interesting that, although this law has been substantially changed from, according to the State Secretary, to the previous proposal, the explanation when it is read is quite the same or almost the same. In both cases, the need for alignment with that famous European Union guideline is mentioned. The fact is that in this law it has implemented a concession approach and therefore an attempt at transparency in giving mining concessions. However, whoever pitted it did. Those who already have concessions have concessions and do not apply to them anymore. This refers most to, or exclusively to potential new concessionaries. The law also has some absurd articles, such as Article 63, which refer to mineral raw materials that occur during existing works in accordance with the Construction Act. So what's going on with those raw materials? Under the law, they can be installed in buildings in an effort, and the surplus must be offered to the state, however, it is not said how. The rulebook has yet to be made. What about these situations already under way when the builders build buildings and encounter mineral raw materials? Where are they gonna store it? At whose expense, yours? On this plot or someone else? So it's not all settled, but it's waiting for a variety of rules to be passed under the discretionary rule of ministers and ministries again, etc. As a result of all of this, this law should definitely even be withdrawn, and if it does not at least withdraw to a second reading because I do not see what the purpose of this is now to bring it into an emergency procedure after a year of waiting after the debate of that previous law to come back into the legal procedure. In doing so, a valid version of the Mining Act should ensure full access and participation of mining professions, mining scientific institutions, mining economies, associations and associations. And consequently, the SDP will not support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33471	Thank you. HDZ club, Mr. Representative Ante Kulušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33472	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of the debate, I would point out that the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of the final proposal of the Mining Act as the final part of the process of harmonising the legislative framework of the Republic of Croatia in the area of energy, industry and in the section relating to oil and gas. The proposed law carries out compliance with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of '94. for years on conditions for the search, research and production of hydrocarbons with the same conditions laid down in the Directive applied to all types of mineral raw materials. The importance of mining as an economic branch that creates new values and promotes and supports the work of a whole range of other production industries such as energy, construction or processing industry undisputed. In fact, the exploitation and consumption of mineral raw materials are part of the country's overall economic activity and as such contributes to the overall growth of the social product. At the same time, the growth of the social product also requires an increase in the consumption of certain types of mineral raw materials, which assumes their mutual relationship. It is important, however, to state that the introduction of new eco-acceptable technologies over the past few years has led to significant growth in construction, as well as the noticeable recovery of the processing industry, which requires the appropriate exploitation of mineral raw materials that form the basis of construction, as well as raw materials for industrial processing. The investigation and acquisition of authorisation for the exploration of mineral raw materials shall be governed by this proposal for a law in such a way as to prescribe greater guarantees for competition in the prescribed procedure of granting authorisation for the investigation of mineral raw materials based on a public tender. It is prescribed that a public tender for the authorisation for the exploration of mineral raw materials is held on the basis of a public call from the State administration authority responsible for mining operations or on the basis of the request submitted by the interested mining economic operator. So, for example. a public tender for the authorisation of hydrocarbon research and a concession for the exploitation of hydrocarbon fields shall be prescribed by the Ministry of Mining and published in the Official List at least 90 days before the deadline for submission of applications. The fee for the investigation of mineral raw materials shall also be introduced in the manner set out in the research authorisation. The research fee may be determined as a fixed amount and a variable amount, depending on the type of research. The amount of the minimum annual fee shall be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, depending on the type and time of the survey, the business risk and the expected profit, the equipment and the surface of the investigative space and on the proposal of the Ministry of Mining. The revenue research fee is the state budget and budget of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, while the distribution ratio of revenue from research fees will be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by a regulation. The proposal for a law further provides for a way of implementing a public tender for the authorisation of an exploitation field of mineral raw materials and the award of concessions for the exploitation of mineral raw materials in accordance with the provisions of the Law on concessions, and on the basis of a public call from the authority responsible for mining operations or the basis of the request submitted by the interested mining economic operator. Thus, a public tender for the approval of the hydrocarbon exploitation field and the award of concessions for the exploitation of hydrocarbons shall be announced by the Ministry of Mining in the official list at least 90 days before the deadline for submission of the application. In contrast to the existing mining legislation according to which the compensation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials is set at 2.6% of the total revenue generated by their sale in the exploitation field under the regulation of this proposal, the payment of the cash compensation shall be introduced in the amount and in the manner provided for in the concession contract. The law further provides for a way of sorting the reserves of mineral raw materials, making mining projects, building mining facilities and plants, mining plans and mining measurements, as well as protection measures on work and environmental recovery. It also determines the treatment of mineral raw materials unearthed in the construction of buildings constructed in accordance with construction regulations, and criminal provisions in the case of counter-treatment, which has not been clearly regulated so far. Stronger measures and criminal provisions are also prescribed to combat illegal exploitation of mineral raw materials while in order to promote, protect and represent the interest of mineral raw materials management, a special law provides for the establishment of a Croatian chamber of mining engineers, geology and oil mining. Following all of the above, the Croatian Democratic Community's club will support the proposal, the adoption of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33473	Thank you. The club of representatives of the CNS, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33474	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Mining and exploitation of mineral raw materials everywhere in the world is one of the basic industries. That truth is not often beautiful, pleasant, but necessary and extremely important. The fact is, and it has already been said, the fact is that last year, in particular 10.7 here in the Parliament, we discussed the proposal for a mining law. The fact is that, according to the Rules of Procedure, the second reading and the final proposal were to come within 6 months. And the fact that from that time until today, because the need to comply with European Union legislation and European Union directives were also known then, as well as today. The only thing that wasn't known was the concession law we brought in at the 10th month. Therefore, there was no reason for the motionor to respect the procedure, respect the Rules of Procedure and to talk about the law in the time provided for by the Rules of Procedure. But obviously that the matter itself is of this nature, because that only results in a logical conclusion, simply the matter is such that not enough attention to it has not been paid attention enough. And today we win, today we discuss the same matter of another name. Then we had the Mining Act, and now we have the Mining Act that got that form European, so it goes into emergency procedure by first and second reading. Even that's not controversial. However, there is one thing that I find very controversial. It is known that a strategy for the management of mineral raw materials has been developed. That's familiar. The Department of Economy ordered three years ago, I think. At the same time, it is known that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is 17.7 days after we discussed the Mining Law at the time, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the Strategy for the Management of Mineral Raw materials. I ask you fellow MPs whether it is logical first to talk about the strategy, first to adopt the strategy, and then to discuss and adopt all those laws that are the consequence of the strategy. Because every strategy should be the goal of our visions, our possibilities, our potentials. Definitely what we're discussing today is our natural treasure, the treasure of this country, the treasure of all citizens. And do the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the right to know what we have and in which direction we are going and what will be? What are our strategic goals in exploiting mineral raw materials? It means natural treasure. Therefore, I find it irresponsible that the strategic document adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that in this strategic document we in the Croatian Parliament did not have the opportunity and we do not have the opportunity to discuss. But at the same time, we're getting the law we've already discussed. I don't know why the procedure wasn't followed, but here we get the same text with the changes that came from that first debate. But it's not called the Mining Act, it's called the Mining Act. I think it is something that should be said very clearly and such a simple approach by estimating the matter that we are talking about, the need, the awareness that such an approach is not correct with the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, is not correct with the representatives of the Croatian Parliament representing the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in this House. A few more questions about the strategy since we haven't had a chance to discuss it. In fact, the public showed up and that's why I think it's very important to ask that question, just in one segment, I'm talking about oil supplies. And in public there is actually data from the ministry on 31.12.2004, oil supply 11.79 million cubic metres. The strategy is about 6,15, and the INA administration 19.8. Namely, why am I saying that? These are huge differences. It is only from this information that the question is visible and is raised, and related to the fee that will be paid or paid, which we have sold or donated to the Hungarians or the difference in the potential that the Hungarians have received or how much they have received from our Croatian defenders. We are based on a strategy or debate on a strategy and we could give an answer to one such question. Not to mention the other issues that were related to that strategy. In particular, in this law my predecessor, my colleague Franic mentioned a number of things he didn't need to repeat. The very fact that it is in the position of the board has given us a whole series of fundamental amendments that change the text of the law and that many articles that write in this law simply do not give the possibility to implement, not to mention individual cases now, in these amendments, do not allow the law to be implemented. It is in itself a conclusion, we have satisfied the form, and in one very important matter, which is a natural wealth, a way of using this natural wealth, goals, where, and how we want to protect it, we want to make it a general benefit, I think that such a conclusion is difficult to make, and especially be sure. Namely, why do I say be safe? Irregularities in the gray economy, specifically in the use of mineral raw materials, that's a well-known thing, we discussed it a year ago, and the fact that we have one report from the State Inspectorate which found that the total value of illegally exploited mineral raw materials is 525 million kuna in 2004 to 2006. Or in the structure of the total value of illegal exploited mineral raw materials in the Republic of Croatia... of the technical and building stone and the construction sand and gravel account for 95% of the estimated illegal exploitation of mineral raw materials in terms of money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My question, who ended up in prison? Not to mention Stone Ingrad, the government's decision and everything that's happened. My question specifically in this case, who ended up in prison? Didn't they have legal options? They did. According to the Penal Code, the exploitation of mineral raw materials without a mining concession is a criminal offence for which fines or prison sentences are prescribed for up to 3 years, and if the work is committed in a specially protected area of nature, the sentence is up to 8 years. The fact that in business, I may be wrong, I'd be very happy to be reassured or denied, but the fact that in the last three years, no sentence has been passed with a prison for illegal exploitation of mineral raw materials. That often the exploitation of mineral raw materials is under the patronate of both national and local powers, I know the same thing, it's known, it's proven. So again, I'm talking about one very important substance that regulates the use of our national treasure. We haven't had a chance to talk about strategy, see what we're up against, what direction we're going, what our visions are. I hope that after this adoption of the law because the will of most stories passes, no matter how logical or how logical, will we ever get a chance at the Croatian Assembly to discuss the strategy? I don't know, but I hope so. And final. Not going in, specifically when I'm talking about this law, I really have no intention of going in, I believe that through an individual debate, there will be an opportunity for other colleagues to talk about it and talk about the effectiveness of certain provisions of this law, at all, about some real possibility of implementing this law and including these amendments, but I'm essentially an approach to solving this matter, I don't think it's correct. I do not want to believe that such a way of working continues to enable that grey economy that the institution, as the president of the state said, has already established, well known, for all of us, but nothing is happening. I just don't want to believe that the process of processing this kind of matter itself defines such matter continues to give that possibility. I just don't want to believe it. The Croatian People's Party club, based on all of this, will not support the adoption of such a bill, and at the same time we hope, because it does not mean anything, we have already made sure that it does not mean anything, especially when we are looking for an opposition, but we hope to have opportunities in this House to discuss and the strategy that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a year ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33475	Thank you. One correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33476	Mr. Vice President, so I'm going to correct just one incorrect quote because a colleague claims that we should have discussed the strategy in this House before, and then pass the law. In fact, the obligation of the Republic of Croatia, which stems from the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia on the accession of the European Union, tells us that this year we must pass the Mining Act, so it has also come into this urgent procedure and clearly speaks this law on all those things that are necessary for the sake of harmonisation, and also on the simplification of the concession procedures that are given for the exploitation of mineral raw materials. It speaks of the fact that these are mineral raw materials and talk about the greater guarantees of the concession competition, is related to the Law on concessions and also speaks of all the standards that need to be met in order for the concessionaires to be transparently visible. And by preventing the grey economy of what counterpart Koračević was talking about, you will clearly see through this law who the concessionaries are, who can... any kind of mineral raw material. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And mineral raw materials are defined by the items as visible in the law. One transparent law you declare should have been developed before the strategy, and then passed the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33477	An individual debate. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33478	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. It seems to me that this law, in fact, will be elaborated through concrete examples, does not protect enough ownership of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. The mineral wealth of Croatia. And this is very important especially in this situation that Croatia is in, that Strabag and other companies take over each company more and more frequently and more jobs that dig the mineral treasure of the Republic of Croatia. And especially in these times of crisis and recession when we have to be very sensitive about these issues that are most valuable. Natural resources are something that remains for Croatia after privatisation, i.e. the abduction of companies. Well, one company can disappear, the other can be created, and it's not the greatest evil yet, even though the trauma of it is still going on together. The basic issues that should have been settled in this law have not been resolved. I'll start with maybe the last thing, but that seems the most important thing to me. This law bears the label P.Z.E. which means that it is in conformity, i.e. the assumption is that it is in conformity with the standards of the European Union. So please be nice, as possible, that the compensation for the mineral treasure is paid nowhere in Europe, but in Croatia it is not paid by the dug cubic meter, gentlemen, but by the profit. So whether they are representatives of the government, representatives protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia or individual companies that have a concession and that dig and dig up the mineral treasure of the Republic of Croatia. In all the laws of the European Union, compensation shall be charged throughout the dug-out cubic metre. And here I repeat my profits. And that's how you rob the property of the Republic of Croatia. Because it reduces the profits that legally belong to the Republic of Croatia. And you had those remarks, but you were deaf. Well, I'm asking you nicely now. Why and whose interests are you protecting? These are too serious things to come before the MPs with these things and still label P.Z.E. You were warned by the relevant authorities also in the Republic of Croatia who had something to say about this, so you disobeyed. And that's not the end of it. It's said here in the provisions, right there at the end, that such a fee will be determined by a special regulation, so beyond the law. Everywhere in European laws, it is settled by law. So we citizens have no idea how much you pay and by what criteria, because it's not in the law, but in some rules there. The question is what is very important, because of the situations that are happening in practice. So not only that can happen, but that happen now. What about those concessions given then under certain conditions, that is, when other spatial plans were in force? Or do you know that lately we've brought a whole series of laws, of course to the government even a proposal to protect the coast, but also the parks of nature and they've been extended to protect you, all in all, that protection is now becoming more and more comprehensive. Both on the continent and on the coast. This law does not resolve these questions. There are now concessions given for exploitation that have now entered the protected area or coastal belt or nature protection. You were also warned about that, but you were deaf. It has not been resolved here, and the law needs to contain provisions on the time and manner of recovery. What about the pits? What about the so-called. Technical waste? How are the resolution issues addressed? We're aware and everyone knows it. You can't hide it with your naked eye, you can see it. And no one. To do excavations and mining under a god-awful resuscitation. And he didn't settle this law either. In fact, larger fuses are needed and very specific provisions are needed in situations of hidden illegal exploitation. Of course you still question giving concessions. In this matter, which is a very sensitive question, which is why we have problems as a country. It is therefore necessary to specify the content of the solution from the concession. These are questions that have practical value. Already, they have been found controversial and are expected to respond to these questions that are open and cause major challenges and major disputes. And in the end, almost always the fissure of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the property of the Republic of Croatia, has been damaged. Provisions on the establishment of a special recovery fund should also be incorporated. The fate of concessions for exploitations not granted under the Mining Act has not been resolved. These are open issues, and they are causing major recommendations and major disputes, and I am now asking again the question in the case of international arbitration because these foreign companies that have come, which are now dealing with these affairs, will be different interpretations, if they are denied that and it is thought that this should be denied, that is, those which I have all listed because the law in this regard is unclear. It can cause a dispute, we can lose some disputes before international arbitration for our own property. Provisions on the consequences of the transfer of the mining concession are also needed but should also be fair and should be incorporated into the provisions, i.e. leave the possibility and be resolved very precisely on the extension of the concession in accordance with the provision of Article 29. The concession law. Thus, those people who do these jobs, who do them fairly, in some ways leave them in the deleted space and on the other hand enables someone to hunt in a blurry or to dig beyond measure without paying for it. The transitional and final provisions are incomplete. So this is now the final proposal, I just listed it, I didn't go into the details because it seemed to me that these were important fundamental issues that the law doesn't give any answer at all, that you were warned about this. Don't let it happen the same way that it happened to Minister Shimonovic, who presented the Criminal Procedure Act here a few months ago when it was due to come into force now amends 112 provisions and was warned of most of them and then, in an explanation, says that these issues appeared after. So he's also lying when he explains. Here I am asking you really to protect the state property, it's worth it and that we need to be particularly careful here to keep this account and now I don't know how much it's possible to install it all, maybe an additional effort to vote if the government is ready or if this is another reading, that this law goes into third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33479	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33480	Fellow counterparts Anticevic-Marinovic, you say the MPs will have no idea which and what fees will be charged for the exploitation of mineral raw materials. I will remind myself that this issue is now in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance and not only that the people's representatives have no idea but they must not know because the Ministry of Finance is denying information about how much concession fees are paid in certain cases and it declares it a kind of secret but it is a shame because exploiting the people's wealth without people and their representatives being able to obtain information under what conditions and what benefit the people benefit from it is, in fact, the ultimate hypocrisy and, if you want, an excellent basis for the development of corruption because it is known that the exploitation of mineral raw materials in the Republic of Croatia is one of the most significant ways for corrupt activity. I will only remind myself of the case of Lake Cice near Velika Gorica where the site or exploitation field was printed twice, but within a period of time, a good villa from the Ministry of Economy through the competent Office of the State Administration of the Economy issued a solution, a temporary permit which continued to be savaged or undermined by the city's wastewater purifier and thus continues to this day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33481	The reply to Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33482	When the Law on Public Procurement and the Law on concessions was passed, then the Minister of Finance was here not only explaining and announcing this law but also publicly said on several occasions that any law would be passed that none at any other time or at a more unfavourable time or at any easier time would resolve issues of neither public procurement nor concession, that it was a trial law and that, in specific laws such as the Water Act, the Law on the Water Economy, or at the present time, the Mining Act could only strengthen those basic cabins that were set there. However, and then we had great pains and the only part of our amendment is that there is a public knowledge of who is the recipient of the concession but in no way is what you are now particularly apostropheti not allowed to know to the public what the fee is. But it's a fee that comes from something that's public good. He doesn't ask anyone here or care how much one of the privates makes from another private. It is something that belongs to all citizens and the government is managing it, it has been given the mandate to manage it in the best possible way in a certain mandate with the property, and it must not be diminished if it cannot already increase it but it is hiding. And what's he hiding it for? So, of course, it leaves everything secret, leaves the possibility and imagination and, unfortunately, it's not the fruit of anyone's imagination but of harsh black reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33483	Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33484	Honored Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the State Secretary with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Therefore, it has been pointed out that in previous discussions, mining is one complex activity that goes into many aspects of environmental conservation, many economic spheres, then spatial planning, water protection, the environment, agriculture, etc. In this context, one should remember and mention the destruction of the Croatian urban institute that was destroyed in conversion and privatisation despite the fact that it was a respectable professional and scientific institution that acted on the defense of preventing the devastion of Croatian space and natural and cultural landscape. And now the question arises whether this destruction was intentional precisely to use Croatian space uninterruptedly by the construction, mining and ina mafia and naturally available natural resources. Let us also remember cases where the state itself is for the sake of its priority objectives and higher interests that we all hoped would no longer be transitioned from plan to market economy. So the state is, this country has provided some with a variety of suspicious actions, e.g. in the construction of certain roads by Croatian military engineering units without respect for legal procedures, leaving untreated wounds in the environment but not only in the environment but also in the state budget. And many unsanitary seines along the highway routes still lay mosquitoes and garbage and various vermin. The budget damage cannot even be estimated because these transactions often went through the phantom companies of the type RH Alan, which, for example, had a higher budget than the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Science combined in 2000. And to use the famous saying, "Who's in the pit?" So, there is no resolution, all of this remains as it was and unfortunately neither does this bill deal with the resolution of such situations as occur in the mining process either authorized or unauthorized. Reading this version of the law, as I said, seems to have been done by someone on duty, not by a parenting profession, which the law was intended for, along with, the economics. The law is too principled in its implementation and its implementation is based on too many sublegal acts, decisions, regulations and regulations, and the question is why, in any case, do not... This Parliament, for our sakes, brings all sorts of professional services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Besides, it would now be in the trend of globalization of the general economy, perhaps we would have entered history as the first MPs to think of it. But it looks like it's already quiet in practice. In particular, this concerns the Law on concessions and the implementation of such a law based on government acts, ministries and others, can have good sides, therefore, of amendments without legal procedure as I said but also bad because certain solutions can be the result of current policy, arbitration, to question the legal certainty of economic operators who do not know in what circumstances what changes will be made. Because it's not the rules of the game then it's actually creating someone else rather than the Croatian Parliament. The Law on concessions builds on specific regulations that bring them closer to the regulation of a particular type of concession, which in this case represents the Mining Act, which is why it is important that the same content, that this law does not contain only the principles but much more detailed provisions that are important for the acquisition of concessions. In accordance with the provisions of Article 23, the approval of an investigative space may be granted only to those spaces planned for that purpose by means of spatial planning documentation. In accordance with the provisions of Article 7 of the Local Self-Government Unit, it is necessary to produce mining geological studies as a basis for the production of spatial planning documentation which must, however, be consistent with the mineral raw materials management strategy as a basic document. The law has set a three-year deadline for making mining geological studies in Article 133, noting that neither the strategy that this strategy is still unrepresented to us, which should be presented, which should essentially be the basis for the study. When it is added that, after the adoption of the strategy and the production of mining geological studies, spatial planning documentation should be modified, then in the most optimistic case, the first authorisation for some kind of research space could only be obtained in about five years and what would you do by then? And I guess some professional officers will again make a rule, a decision that will bridge this irrelevant five - year period. The setting of deadlines for drawing up Article 24. as well as the elaborates and reserves of corresponding solutions on the quality and quantity of the location permit and so on the mining project is pointless. When, for example, the location permit is not in the power of the researcher, it is the obligation of someone who cannot be affected at all, i.e. State. And the state, as we can see, is acting arbitrarily. And even more pointless because of the failure to meet all these deadlines, it is mandatory to withdraw approval for research. And let us remember that we already had a large database of mineral and mineral raw materials, so, on the Croatian underworld, but in the '90s, it was given by privatization and conversion into private hands, and then the state no longer has it in disposition, and here it has to bring some optimistic laws that would be corrected once that we already had quite well done. I generally believe that this law is inconclusive, inconclusive and that it should not be allowed in, it should not be adopted but should go into third reading after a substantial public debate and with much rather than a fictitious involvement of the profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33485	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33486	Mr. Vice President, I will correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Franic, where he claimed that this law did not define how to resuscitate the unearthed locations. In fact, it is clearly and unequivocally written, and other colleagues mentioned that there is no such thing in the law at all and that it is unspeakable. It writes loud and clear: A concessionary for the exploitation of mineral raw materials is required during or after the exploitation of mineral raw materials in accordance with the location permit and mining project based on works for exploitation, to repair the excavated spaces. Still, for the purpose of ensuring the cost of resuscitation of the works of unearthed space... the relevant payment instruments at the level of the recovery costs determined by the verified mining project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means you haven't read at all... I just wanted to correct you and say that none of you who is about this matter is about protecting the environment and rehabilitating the unearthed space that you haven't even read the law. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33487	Replica, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33488	Thank you very much. Col. Franic, the key question you asked to combat all possible abuses is the relationship between the concession of the mining project and the location permit. In principle, one concession, one project, one location permit. That's the key. Because what's going on? If an additional project is developed during the exploitation, which is otherwise developed for significant deviations from the main project, a new concession must also be issued and a new local authorisation sought. If there's any change in space, too. The additional project must not exceed the scope of concession rights, otherwise a new concession must be made. But these are all forms of illegal exploitation. If we could stop my illegal exploitation and all that illegal use of state property, we'd have it for the dairy and for the warlords. I absolutely say it responsibly. Here you let money run into someone's private pockets, against the law, on the obvious of everyone. Namely, forms of illegal exploitation and sales of raw materials owned by the Republic of Croatia, use of land without legal basis and wound in space, devastation of nature, roads and landscapes, really takes over and reaches a worrying height. We have forms of total illegal exploitation without concession or with the approval of only the exploitation field, illegal exploitation during research, the sale of material so-called. Excessive digs, then digs state and sells more to the state. Well, we all know that, and most often it's to camouflage illegal exploitation through the construction of sports facilities, ponds, lakes, etc. and through slides to clean and maintain the waterways of rivers and lakes when literally peeling rivers and lakes. He rips himself up, grabs the people and then sells himself to the state, and you all know it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33489	Replica reply, Mr. Zdenko Franić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33490	Dear fellow Antičević, you have just once again beautifully underlined the absurdity of this law which essentially facilitates the robbery of the remains of social property. And we should just put this law together with the Golf Act so that we have one megazacon for the management of Croatian assets in a way that maximises profit extraction and non-transparentity.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33491	At 16,17, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33492	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. Now we've cleared up that the Mining Law and the Mining Act are one and the same law. We read it for the first time, now we read it for the first time and for the second time in fact. But what I did, when I looked at him in his key provisions and finally realized it was the same laws, I wondered if this bill now meant by the urgent procedure of announcing the Croatian peasant party's exit from the ruling coalition. Namely, when we had the Mining Law on reading, there was a provision in it that the compensation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials was up to 10%, that a third of that fee was the income of the Republic of Croatia, a second third of the counties, and a third of the municipalities and cities on whose territory mineral raw materials were exploited. So then the law contained in it the provision that this fee was up to 10% and clearly prescribed whose money it was. In this proposal, the law states that the amount of the minimum annual cash compensation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials is determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. But that's not all, it wasn't enough so there's a provision that the cash compensation for the concession is the income of the state budget and/or the budget of the units of local and regional self-government. And follow, the ratio of the distribution of income from the cash concession referred to in paragraph 4 shall be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by its regulation. Therefore, the government by regulation determines how much concession there will be, a concession fee, whose income it is, and how much of that money it will receive. When this ruling coalition was formed, and I was already talking about it in the Parliament, then the government programme, which the Parliament confirmed, was listed that this concession fee or the coloquial termed mining rent would be set at 10%. Not up to, but 10%. It's 2.6% now. I must admit that I am surprised that both the other partners and the ruling coalitions agree with such a provision that is contrary to the government's programme no more than a year and a half ago, especially because of what I think is, at this point in time when the fee is 2.6%, somewhere around a billion kuna a year. Because only last year should INA pay around 430 million kuna of those fees. If we add that municipalities and cities are practically unable to influence the approval and award of concessions or the decision of the State to open concession fields, this law does not in any way affect the amount and fees or whether or not they will receive any part of the money. So the question is, why are we even passing the law? To make it better by regulation, the government regulates the whole matter, so you solve with the regulation everything that this law says. Because what's left and writing other provisions to municipalities, cities and counties doesn't do any good. Third topic of Croatian water. Who digs the most gravel in this country? Croatian waters. But they won't have to ask for a concession or pay a fee because the gravel is stolen under the technical maintenance of the water supply. We in Međimurje are witnessing right now about 9 major construction sites for the technical maintenance of the Mura and Drava water streams, and especially at the mouth of Legrad where millions of gravel are technically maintained and nothing at all. And this law of course does not offer any solution in this respect either. And finally on the ground and the existing law, and unfortunately this new one is also causing a rather strange situation. For example, INA has five gas wells on the ground. I would ask fellow MPs not to interfere with the government's representatives if I could listen to the debate because I'm asking for answers from them. No, I'll wait for my colleague to behave. Thanks, buddy. INA has 5 gas wells on the territory of 5 municipalities and all of this gas by underground pipes leads to a large station where separation is carried out and all in technical terms. The territory, the surface of the earth, the surface of the exploitation field on the well is 25 square meters, 25 square meters, 5 times 5. The gas station territory where this gas is coming from, not in the refinery, but the gas station from which it is further distributed is a square mile, a mile. The right to compensation, the concession fee has those municipalities where the well is, not the municipality on whose territory is a gas station that is thousands of times larger than the gas field, because these are small gas fields. See if you don't believe all those drills in Međimurje territory, so you'll see what I'm talking about. So where there's a big gas exploitation field they don't have the right to compensation, where the little ones have the right. The area of the exploitation field has no impact on the level of concession at all, because this formulation in the law that is now offered, that the Government will determine the minimum amount of compensation, be careful of this depending on the type of activity, the duration of the concession, the business risk, the expected profit, the equipment and the surface of the exploitation field on the proposal of the Minister. Business risk and expected profit for INA is minus, loss. They're at a loss. I don't know why we need to invent hot water and not understand why the whole of Europe said that mineral wealth is a national treasure and that the cube of gravel, sand is worth so much by cubicity, so much euros or cents. Cubic gas or cubic oil or barrel oil or anything else. Exploitation fee. The concession fee must be determined in advance to be known from the one used in a fixed amount converted, expressed in kunas, and the law can only be in agreement with the Parliament that the Government can determine this fee, increase depending on the movement of inflation. Nothing else. But if you do not accept these important remarks, I suggest that, instead of the law, the Government regulates other areas by regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33493	Thank you. Mr. Representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33494	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, here's something I'll briefly say about the final proposal of the Mining Act. I would say that, with regard to the earlier proposal for a mining law that we had in our first reading, I would say that the proposer, that he had prescribed an earlier bill and brought it into line with the Law on concessions and with the directives of the European Union in order to make a better account than I did the bill that we now have in front of us. In many segments, it is to say worse than earlier proposals, and I will only briefly say something from the discussion that I said in the previous bill, and it relates to the use of mineral raw materials itself. This proposal, too, did not de facto take anything defined in Article 52 of the Final Proposal of the Law which is now in an emergency procedure. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is that the mineral treasure enjoys the special protection of the Republic of Croatia. Personal protection doesn't enjoy it because it's not exactly because of the unquality law and the ineffectiveness of the inspection itself. I will say that the law of Article 63 provides that the beds of mineral raw materials are to be used rationally when mineral raw materials are removed and processed with small losses. We're witnesses today, and right in the coast to mass-produce a crushed technical and construction stone without any finishing, without processing. They are exported to other European Union countries, precisely those countries that have set up a restrictions on the opening of new exploitation fields in their own countries, and what does it look like? It seems to be a devastation of nature. Trade companies or crafts that do so normally go into a programmed bankruptcy. After that, it is not possible to ask them to resuscitate such exploitation fields, given that they normally go into bankruptcy and no one can be asked to resuscitate what has been unearthed today in nature, i.e. especially I would say the coast but certainly in the continental part of Croatia when it comes to gravel we have holes in the area that no one is resuscitating. Here I have proposed then, I propose and now to form a Fund for the Rehabilitation of Mining Works modelled by other countries of the European Union. Such a fund has both Hungary and the Netherlands and Sweden and we neighbouring Slovenia, where part of the funds is allocated from the exploitation fee and the exploitation fields where the exploitation has been completed, or where there is no company or craft, since it has disappeared into bankruptcy. Furthermore, as regards the concession fee which is regulated by Article 61 of the Law itself, the same is a worse solution compared to the earlier draft law because we see that this amount determines by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the compensation belongs either to the state budget or to the budget of the units of the regional self-government. Personally, I believe that this compensation should belong to the units of local self-government for one reason, which is precisely the area of exploitation, devastion and roads, noise, dust, means all the negative consequences that one such exploitation field leaves in some space. I think we talk about decentralisation a lot. This is to give a good example of how we can help local self-government units, i.e. regional self-government, to leave a fee to be collected, although we do not know by the bill what it will be and what its height will be, to leave to the units of local, or regional self-government. Here, these two proposals, the proposal to install in this law a fund for the rehabilitation of mining works and a proposal to leave the concession fee to the units of local self-government are the basic requirements we are looking for, and otherwise this law certainly in the form that we are given, I will say much worse than the earlier proposals, we cannot support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33495	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33496	My friend, you're troublesome here whether this fee should belong to a local self-government unit. If it were, I repeat, charged first of all fairly, first of all in the way that the rules of the European Union provide for an unearthed square, i.e. a cubic meter, rather than a profit. Let's imagine one company that deals with exploitation, buys real estate, buys Mercedes, shows profits, maybe more states have to take care of it along with those dumps that already dug up the mineral treasure. So where's the logic? The state has only damage, and it has great, huge, but neither does it, nor does it charge everything in such a way. Until recently, or until 2003, it was even thrown out as a criminal offence to exploit ore treasure. Why? There's no social property, so it's all not ours now, but from the individual, the favorites of this one or that set. It was only 2003 that it was reintroduced into criminal law. In the last year, that is, last year's illegal exploitation, so it's forced to charge everything, or even some amount, yet let's go, somewhere around 65 million kuna. And you can imagine how much money there would be if they were to be charged in the right way and if they really all paid for what they were using, not robbing state property. This is a good way to enable this bill to be calculated in such a way, it would certainly be there and that one part belongs to the local self-government unit, especially where an exploitation field is found, regardless of what is owned by the state, because there is one particular way both the environment and the units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33497	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Marin Brkarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33498	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, let me briefly say that I absolutely agree with these findings of yours. The fact is, even under current law, this fee was embarrassingly low, just as it was calculated the way you said it was. But the draft law and Article 61 are not visible in any way to be calculated, nor what will be its height. I mean, I'd say especially for the coast, de facto what's going on, there's mass exports of crushed stone to the neighboring countries that they have, but it should certainly be inspections and the Ministry of Finance and mining inspections to see what it's about. There are mass exports of stone to other European countries that have restrictions on the opening of quarrys, and this is a stone unworked stone, I'm not saying, there are honorable exceptions and companies that export the processed final product, means stone, the crushed stone is exported and the hills disappear, parts of nature disappear, and no one is responsible for it. Neither the inspections take any measure nor the local self-government units, what is said to benefit from it, because such fees, I would say embarrassingly low, are thus far 2.6 of the book value of such a pension, which is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33499	Final review, State Secretary Tamara Obradović Mazal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33500	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, once again, thank you for the debate. We've established with a comparative advantage the story of Achilles and the turtle. I don't know who won that story, but Achilles's name is known, the turtle's identity hasn't been established yet. In any case, no one remembers her. A few references to the debate that was held. As regards the fee, depending on the type of exploitation, depending on the mineral raw material that is concerned and with the fact that we will accept the amendment which the Committee has indeed rightly established and proposed, which is the allocation of fees between the state budget and the unit budget of local, regional, regional and regional self-government, so that this amount of compensation will be settled and therefore, the distribution will be done on one level and on another, that in practice in the regulation we will go to one third as it was imagined in the version of the Mining Law that we discussed in the first reading last summer. It will also be made variable and fixed, prescribed in the competition itself, and the basis of the concession law where that height is determined by the public competition itself. In determining the variable and fixed amount, one who, on a specific cubicity, or tonne of wages above the fixed amount, or digs up more than that quantity for which the fixed amount is determined, will continue to pay that variable residue. So, if mineral raw materials are unearthed above the threshold of the tender and the fixed amount, the variable amount shall continue to be paid. Those who subsidise on an annual basis, i.e. excavated less than what the fixed amount pays will continue to retain, i.e. continue to pay that fixed amount. Its concession fee will not be reduced proportionally by the amount it has not reached in the digging of the mineral raw material threshold for that concession fixed fee for which it has been granted. The same fee was paid for the exploitation field amongst other things. It was brought into line with land, not for land, but for an exploitation field. Exploitation fields currently have 658 in Croatia, and in 193 it is clear that when I imagine the territory of our country that we know what order of size we are talking about. Of course, the regulation will try to really detail both the criteria, and the conditions, and the height. When the fixed amount is converted to variable, when the fixed amount is retained and does not become proportionate and it is prohibited to become proportionate, and the fee itself will be defined in particular by each individual competition to be announced. The Mining Act, writing it in this repeated format, we tried to comply with the primary Law on concessions, the Law on spatial planning and construction, water, the Law on forests, the environment, agricultural land, nature. Just trying to take into account absolutely all the regulations that you yourself have found have been passed, which we need to coordinate with this Mining Act. However, note bene when it comes to digging gravel, i.e. digging raw materials from the riverbed foundation of the Water Law, that part of our law does not regulate, that part of it enters into the section relating to the Water Act. When it comes to the division of mineral raw materials, it is noted that perhaps the order in which mineral raw materials are placed does not reflect the true state. Regardless of the order of value perception of mineral raw materials, they are primarily divided in our law by, among other things, the phenomenon in the Republic of Croatia. So, we took into account the individual values of mineral raw materials, presented in Croatia but also the order and respected the principle of their appearance. The resolution fund as well as the resolution itself has been asked. Resuscitation is, of course, carried out succesively. It is prescribed as an obligation and we have just wanted to avoid those ugly excavations, the shallow excavations we meet by traveling to the Adriatic, and for this purpose, if Article 71(4) is opened, I believe that there will be a respected representative who has noticed that he may be missing, later notice. The point is, it may not be called a fund, but the financial amount for the recovery fee is paid, i.e. it is laid down by the Ministry of Mining. It's not called a fund, but the point is the same, which is to force one who has a concession, who does investigative work to make a deposit, to give a cash amount that will later go towards recovery. Spare oil was mentioned. Just to draw attention to the fact that our data, which you can see at the end of the website and in the framework of the adopted strategy, are data balanced reserves of mineral raw materials. So, they are not data statements, the oil reserves that INA has and beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia, because the total oil reserves, i.e. mineral raw materials reserves that INA has, also includes those wells that are in Croatia and wells that are abroad. The Ministry of Economy works, i.e. it has data on the balanced reserves that are mineral raw materials in the Republic of Croatia. So maybe there's a difference that shows up as data. And lastly, given that there was a lot of sharp remarks, on the fact that throughout the law and in fact the whole law ignores the necessity of establishing a special chamber that would gather mining engineers, i.e. geology and oil mining in its professional work, somewhat contradictory because it is this law that, following the amendment, which I thank the Committee on Law, will put into transitional and final provisions. This law provides the basis for the creation, i.e. the establishment of a chamber of mining engineers, geology and oil mining. So the incentive for this profession to have an engineering profession like the chamber. Thank you again for the debate, any objections, any amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33501	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33502	We move on to the final proposal of the Mining Act. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 344. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The Government submitted amendments in accordance with Article 169. The Rules of Procedure shall become an integral part of the final draft law and shall not be voted on. The review of the other amendments is divided into benches. I'm asking the secretary of state to manifest himself. First amendment of the Committee on Economy to Article 48.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33503	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33504	Sustained. Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 2., amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to Article 51.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33505	Our amendment, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33506	Are these amendments after or before? Then he's already accepted. 3., Committee on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government on Article 61?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33507	The government does not accept for the following reasons. Therefore, depending on which area and for which area the concession for the exploitation field is given, I would say 2 examples of where the concession income goes directly and only to the state budget and where it is shared. For example, a platform in the North Adriatic, so a platform for hydrocarbon North Adriatic. It is located in the Epicontinental Belt of the Republic of Croatia and the revenue from the concession is directly the revenue of the state budget and this is not applied by the proposed model of the distribution of compensation and the state budget and units of local self-government. For example, where this fee will be divided naturally between the state budget and the local self-government unit, for example the exploitation fields in the City of Đurđevac, the Municipality of Kloštar Podravski, the Municipality of Šandrovac, the Municipality of Velika Pisanica, where the concession fee will naturally be divided by the basis of this law in the proportions between the state budget and the budget of the unit of local self-government and, for this reason, condition and, as proposed, does not correspond to the present state of affairs when we look at the concession in respect of where the exploitation field lies and in whose jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33508	The Committee on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33509	We give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33510	The amendment has been withdrawn. 4th, amendment of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction to Article 64?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33511	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33512	Acceptable, becoming an integral part of the proposal. 5. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction on Article 73?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33513	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33514	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 6th, Legislative Committee on Article 76?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33515	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33516	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 7. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction on Article 94?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33517	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33518	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 8, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction on Article 100?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33519	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33520	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 9.The Legislative Committee on Article 117?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33521	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33522	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 10., Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction on Article 118?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33523	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33524	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 11, The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction on Article 121?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33525	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33526	It becomes part of the proposal. 12, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction on Article 126?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33527	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33528	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 13, Economic Committee on Article 132?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33529	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33530	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. And the Legislative Committee on Article 137?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33531	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33532	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. I am voting on the final proposal of the Mining Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The law was adopted by a majority of votes, 73 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 37 against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33533	We're going to the next point. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on designations of origin, designations of geographical origin and designations of traditional reputation of agricultural and food products, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. 345 Amendments to the end of the debate carried out by the Committees on Law, European Integration, Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. You received the reports at the session. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Economy Srecko Selance will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33534	Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the Government, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The law on designations of origin, geographical indications and designations of traditional reputation of agricultural and food products was adopted last year and complies with European Union rules. The law prescribes a system of registration and protection of the name of agricultural and food products, the designation of origin, the designation of geographical origin and the designation of traditional food reputation. In this way, the possibility of registering and protecting indigenous products at national level in accordance with those in the Member States of the European Union. What are the reasons for amending and supplementing this law? First of all, further harmonisation with the applicable European Union rules is primarily by Commission Regulation 417 2008 allowing for the protection of salt and cotton, the designation of origin or the designation of geographical origin as specific product categories. Then additional harmonisation in the section of labelling of registered products. Namely, the way in which the product must be marked after registration at national level is more accurate as to which the product must be marked is identical to the European product. However, such labelling should be further harmonised on the legal side. According to the current European regulations, such an indication can only be placed on the product when it passes registration at European level and not only at national level. Therefore, in order not to be contrary to European Union regulations and to ensure the visibility of registered and protected products at national level in relation to others which are not and the next practice of some other Member States of the European Union, we have amended the way of labelling so that it does not prejudice the infringement of the provisions of the EU regulation. Second, the establishment of a more efficient system of registration of markings and conformity-finding systems. In the implementation of the registration procedure and the procedure for establishing compliance at national level under the applicable law, certain deficiencies have been observed. Therefore, there was a need to amend the existing model of conformity determination and, consequently, the need to amend it in the process of registering the label and recording the users of the label in the corresponding registers run by the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. As regards the funds necessary for the implementation of the law in question, we must point out that the funds are already secured and now in the state budget through the budget items of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, therefore there is no need to provide additional resources for the implementation of this law. The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development provided for two new regulations under the 2009 National Programme of Accession to the European Union. The first rule on the designations of origin, the geographical indications of agricultural and food products and the rules on the designations of traditional reputation of agricultural and food products which also comply with European regulations. For their adoption, it is necessary to amend the existing law on designations of origin, geographical indications of food and traditional food reputation and to adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Law on designations of origin, designations of geographical origin and designations of traditional reputation of agricultural and food products. Given that the adoption of the law in question is related to the envisaged national programme for the accession of the European Union for 2009 it is proposed to adopt the same by emergency procedure. Since it is possible, after registration at national level, to apply for the registration of products at European Union level and before becoming a Member State and taking into account the importance of registration under this system which increases product visibility, it prevents the abuse of the product name and the deception of consumers and affects the increase of competitiveness. We propose to support the adoption of the law in question. This will allow registration and protection in addition to the already registered Slavonian cuisine, držnik prosciutto, Istrian prosciutto, Pag cheese, Cetin cheese and paška salt, a series of agricultural and food products which the Republic of Croatia boasts because of the specificity of the geographical position of natural and climate conditions, as well as rich cultures and traditions, and which can be praised by their speciality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33535	Thank you. Committees on legislation, European integration, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development? I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club Mr. Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33536	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State, the representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen. The law governing the protection of traditional and indigenous agricultural and food products is certainly a contribution to agricultural policy and we believe in the HDZ Club that it certainly contributes to increasing the competitiveness of agricultural income and our agricultural producers. Products protected by geographical indications protected by the designations of origin shall be safe to make the whole market of the European Union in case of protection of labelling. These products, therefore, which receive this protection mark, are clearly behind them by the producer association, are kept almost daily production controls, production technologies, but this is also a guarantee that all these products are subject to and inspection supervision means and controls on health care. For all these reasons, and because of consumer faith in the protection system, these products have a high demand on the European Union market and their price per product unit is sometimes up to 100% higher than similar products but which are not protected, which have not passed the protection system. We talked today about the accreditation system means that it guarantees credibility, standardisation, etc., it is precisely the protection of these indigenous products that are one of the means of standardisation where these products that enter the protection system become recognizable on the entire market and as such accepted clearly both with their quality systems and with price levels. It is important that our producers recognize what this protection system means for them and that all these specific products of the Republic of Croatia become our export brand but also a synonym for tourist destinations in different parts of Croatia. Consider just an example of a country where these indigenous protected products have become a synonym of a certain part of the province, a country such as parmesan, such as parmanese ham, such as Schwartzvaldish ham, French rockfort, Greek feta, iberian prosciutto, etc. So these are products that are kind of recognized as products of a particular climate. They say, they have some kind of historical story. They talk about the people, talk about the customs in the area, talk about the tradition of food production, about the social situation. Thus, they become certainly the identity of that space. Croatia has three climatic geographical units. There are great spatial differences. Our spaces were under different historical and cultural influences. In one word, we have a rich tradition which is a clear prerequisite for the protection and standardisation of a large number of indigenous and traditional products. Just today, when we enter Euro-Atlantic associations more than ever, we need to encourage the production and protection of indigenous products because in this way we protect national identity, protect our own identity, our culture and our own tradition. It is often discussed that story about the tavern, about the cradle as a custom, about cream, cheese, etc. with some stories about the ban on these products, the ban on these customs, which clearly does not stand and is not true. Therefore, as in other European Union countries that have benefited from this and which has become part of European Union legislation, it is therefore necessary to protect these specificities. We have a situation that, for example, France, Spain, Germany over one hundred, one hundred fifty products, different food products are protected, bearing protection codes, meaning geographical origin of origin, tradition. And it is clear that this is also a major contribution to producers, meaning both the profitability and the competitiveness of their agriculture. In Croatia it is certain that one of the biggest problems when we talk about these indigenous products are quality standards and low production capacity. So, these are exactly two things to work on, so we have excellent not know, meat indigenous products from the prosciutto of Istrian, Dračno, therefore, Dalmatian in general, from Slavonian cuisine, from pasha cheese, so most of these products that have been protected by national legislation so far, but where a key problem is seen and why protection is needed, why we need producer associations that is the fact that we have small quantities of these products that are insufficient for the market and that are not standardised quality. Therefore, that is why protection is necessary, so that manufacturers are joined together, to find in this some meaning and economic and rationalisation and production, but also to ensure that the market provides sufficient quantities of these products. Autochton products can't be seasonal products, so if it's a question of some kind of restaurant tourist offer then it has to be a supply throughout the year. Therefore, technological developments must also be used to ensure that exactly what the tradition has given as production conditions can be kept constant throughout the year and that this production could monitor market requirements for these products. Also one of the major problems with these products that are not protected is the grey economy. It is not unusual for both prosciutto and coolen and ham, etc., therefore, all those indigenous products, valuable, appreciated products to be sold outside the legal system of trade. It is not only a problem for the state not to pay taxes, it is not only a problem, but simply for these products we have no guarantee that they have passed veterinary health supervision and that they are healthy. And that is why exactly what I said about production capacity, insufficient quantities, standardisation, quality but also the legal system of business and trade all of this can be achieved precisely by protecting these products. Because all those products that receive these protection labels, so the origin codes of geographical origin and traditions are entered into the legal system of business, are subject to veterinary health supervision, is legal trade, on the other hand, the state has insight into this production. But what is most important through this protection system is to ensure standard quality, manufacturers themselves monitor themselves in such a system and guarantee quality which is primarily part of the image of their production, their producer association. Thus, such a system operates days in all European Union countries that are aware and who have understood what the protection system means for, above all, their image in terms of nutrition, tourist offers and then their producers that ensure greater income. It is from all of this law that is systematically in line with European Union legislation that we also know that the Ministry of Agriculture is making huge efforts and in the education of producers in their association, that a lot of money is being placed on the market for marketing preparation of products through which this protection system has been tried. So we support all these efforts by both the government and the ministry and also the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33537	Thank you. SDP club, Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33538	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let me say that this Law on designations of origin, geographical indications and marks of the traditional reputation of agricultural products and food products that the Croatian Parliament adopted last July 2nd that today we have a proposal to amend the same and supplement that same law. When we were making those changes, it was expected that there would be some changes because just as the law was written, a new regulation of the European Union was passed since 8 May 2008 and this was somehow co-ordinated with the creation of this law. The law that we passed last year had 57 articles and today, when we look at this amendment and the additions that are before us today, it has 39 articles. One word, we change 68.5% of the text of the law. We are changing it according to the urgent procedure as before because it is being adopted in order to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the EU acquis. As we are, I ask myself how we were going to open chapter 11 on agriculture and rural development with a passed law that today needs to change into 68.5% of its articles. Unfortunately, in the part of agriculture and rural development of these exceptions that we are looking for and that there is a lot of speech, so one of these is probably also needed to coordinate it and for which we have received probably a negative answer and the inability to move on until we fix it. We forgot that European policy, the quality of agricultural products has its consistency. Some members have already introduced their own rules in 1992 to encourage and protect specific names of food products. The reputation in the production of high-quality food products of the EU has been achieved precisely on raw materials from the natural European environment grown in accordance with the farming methods resulting from the centuries-old development of agricultural activity. This certainly means that the domestic indigenous product must be produced from locally known raw materials produced by all the standards required by modern agriculture. These three EU quality marks were not accidentally created: originality, geographical origin and traditional reputation of the way of production, because each mark differs given the accuracy of the characteristics of which the product must satisfy, but all three have one common component, which is the aim of promoting the originality and sustainability of that product. That is why, and this is why the amendment promoter also states, national labelling under this law is contrary to the law given by the regulation. According to the current European regulations, such an indication for the product can only be put in place when it passes registration at European level and not only at national level. This means that we will have to amend the procedure for the registration and protection of agricultural and food products with the designation of origin, the geographical indication and the designation of traditional reputation at national level and harmonised with the level of the European Union. The amendments will be made to the part of the implementation of the establishment of the consent of registered agricultural and food products with one of the national specifications, with the amendment of the means of labelling of products registered at national level. The question arises, if these are the basic questions that I have now quoted, which are being edited with 39 articles, what have we done with the legislation so far? The largest number of articles of the amendment, and certainly up to 90% in this explanation, refers to a clearer definition of the articles we adopted by adopting the law last year. The reading of this bill makes it clear that the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development has made the previously adopted law unprofessionally, because if we need to explain so much now about all that we accepted a year ago, it certainly has the consequence and unpreparedness of chapter 11. As for the changes that we need to make to European standards, the first article of these amendments shows that the indigenous product must be primarily produced from raw materials originating in this area and produced under the influence of specific natural and human factors and environments. The exceptions are almost unacceptable. If there are, they can only be accepted by the Minister's implementing regulation. This is already said in the first article of these products. I ask myself what it means to be a Slavonic tower, Istrian prosciutto, Dalmatian olive oil and paška cheese we must surely work from raw materials in these areas. We cannot produce Slavonic tower or Istrian or Dalmatian prosciutto from Chinese pigs. No matter what we had in this first three months, we had again the index of imports of meat and clown products 121 from the same period last year. I also think that if we want to produce original meat products, then recalculated this imports, which is 176 thousand 175 stockpiles are not usable for that, but should be produced in our economies and farms, and in order to produce indigenous products. The same thing is with the production of Pag cheese. I know that it would be cheaper production than import milk whose imports unfortunately continued to be carried out and in these first three months the index was 115 or 15% higher than in the first three months of 2008. But these 14 thousand 303 tonnes of milk that we have imported in these three months, with imported 73 thousand 880 tonnes of milk in 2008, which goes and probably already these days there are 100,000 tonnes imported in total, creates certainly one dissatisfaction of domestic producers and causes their bankruptcy, and we can certainly not produce the original traditional products that, as it was said, would have a better quality and higher price and everything else. Also, I mentioned olive oil. Well, in the first three months we've already imported over a million dollars of olive oil, we've exported just over 500 thousand dollars. I think all of this indicates, and this first article also says that these changes should be more clearly defined in terms of what the promoter says, and also that the minister undertakes to prescribe the products and raw materials that will be used for these indigenous products than those raw materials that we produce. In addition to these clarifications, i.e. clearer definitions as described in these 39 articles, it is certainly a newspaper and the inclusion of salt and cotton as a special category of protection. As producers of sea salt, it is possible to protect it in this way, while I think this cotton thing is more a matter of getting into the law without having more opportunities to use it in practice. At the end of this presentation, I think that the representatives of the SDP club are left with nothing but to accept the amendments to this law with a warning, as we said in the debate on the law almost a year ago, that the implementing rules should be passed by the Minister within the deadlines prescribed. It was then said one year after the announcement. We have asked it to be before, however, we see that we are doing these changes precisely so that these accompanying regulations can be passed because it turns out that these amendments to the clarifications of the law are also necessary to address the possibility of adopting new regulations adopted by the minister, which were not passed after the law was passed a year ago. In the end, I think we should move as soon as possible to see the results in the financial part of our producers, because these products are more valuable, more expensive, wanted. But from all that we've done so far, I don't know what it is or where we could take these products out with these markings that we're talking about here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33539	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33540	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct two incorrect allegations. First of all, this finding that this amendment of the law has been done in a crazed manner. In fact, although there are a number of amendments to the law, this exclusively needs to be brought into line with the legislation of the European Union which is constantly changing and constantly tightening in this area. Therefore, if we want to be in trend, if we want to be in these standards, then we have to adapt continuously. And secondly, I think the question of understanding is even those protection marks. So there are three levels of protection of tradition, originality and geographical origin. In the case of geographical origin, you can introduce raw materials from another country, but you must exclusively use production technology that is traditional and characteristic of this geographical area. Therefore, it is not all three levels of protection of imperatives that there must be raw material from that area. It is clear that only raw materials from the island of Pag will be for one Pag cheese. So, the milk of those sheep that feed that aromatic grass, etc. But it's not like that for all products. It's a matter of way of protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33541	How about a smurf?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33542	For the wrinkle? We won't protect him.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33543	Is he protected as a origin or a species? HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33544	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. So I'd also have a few remarks that are problematicly affecting the adoption of this, that is, the way this law is passed. In fact, on July 2, 2008, we passed the Law on designations of origin and geographical origin and the designations of traditional reputation of agricultural and food products and are now changing it. We then adopted it by relying on the adopted provisions of the 2006 Council of the European Union Regulation and the two Council Regulations. These are relevant documents from which the obligations to be transposed into Croatian legislation arise. On July 2, 2008, we had before us a law that also had a so-called law in its contribution. a certificate or declaration of compliance with the draft regulation with the legal acquis of the European Union. So, at that time, the Proposer argued, guaranteeing that the original text we adopted had introduced all the provisions of the then applicable European legislation that had not changed since July for information to this day, and since 2006, nothing has changed accordingly that should be inserted inside. Even as much as we knew in July 2008 that existing rules relying on the '92 European regulations. years are no longer sustainable and should be changed. We can only change them under the law, and now we are told in this text that these rules should be adopted within the time limit. So, what we should have had in July last year is only now, a year later, because someone did their job pretty half way. And if you'll excuse me, I'd dare and assess the damage. According to my assessment, the hours of work of the Croatian Parliament cost about 35,000 kuna. We'll spend about two hours on this bill. So 70,000 kuna of pure damage to the state was done by someone who prepared this bill last July and probably won't answer for it, and no one will take one percent off his salary. That's the first one. Second. Of course, entering a club called the European Union has its own rules and it is extremely important to open an appropriate negotiating chapter to define those standards in its own legislation. We've known that since first class. That's what we agreed to. That's what we've reached consensus on. However, there is one double policy that is spent all the time, which is that certain Europhobic statements are trying to contain certain misinformation, and then it is said that it is not true that there will be no more cheese and cream, etc. etc. which is already a mantra that is being pushed through by Eurosceptics, Eurosphobes and those who defend it. However, there is, all the time, the fact that there will be all the indigenous Croatian products, but they will no longer be able to be prepared, placed and sold in the same way. Now, you tell me, is that the same thing? In fact, here's thank you, God, we're finally going to stop dying massively from eating French cheese from Gaza, and now we're going to have cheese from a box, or from a protected packaging, or the whole production process will have to be adjusted slowly to certain new technological conditions. And this new technology is not easy to introduce into a small peasant economy, so I'm interested in when it is, and so it has to be, what we've done as a state to small farmers, which is, therefore, farmers living among other things, by selling their products on green markets once a week, or in markets where milk, dairy products and other processing of a similar type to help them. So, to overcome this obstacle which is called new, expensive technology, i.e. investment obligations in a different, in any case more sterile methodological process of producing what is placed on the market. Because at the end of the line, when everything is summed up and taken away, we can write whatever we want, both originally Croatian and original indigenous product and product with geographical origin, but the only real truth will be, that is, the only word that will match what is behind it, the only word that can label it is sterile. So, sterile. Speaking of which, Bodakoš pointed out which categories we define in terms of this law, such as the designation of origin, the geographical indication, then Mr Bodakosh is right. Namely, the Pag cheese can be called whatever it wants, but if it is not produced from milk grown, or obtained on Pag, it will not be able to have a designation of originality, but it will only be able to have a geographical indication. Because the geographical indication allows either production or processing or preparation to take place in that geographical area. And the originality mark ultimately requires all of this to be local. Therefore, this applies equally to the Baranian tower, the Slavonian tower, to the Dalmatian ham, it can be called the miljecan, the insolent, whatever it will, but if the pork from which it is produced comes from another geographical area, especially if it comes from China, Romania, Hungary or some other countries, especially those not from the European Union, then it will only be able to have this designation of geographical origin, which is paradoxical because it will be allowed that a particular product that is primarily produced in a country, e.g. In the Far East, if processed locally, it can bear the designation of geographical origin of Croatia. In any case, the fact is that Croatia must introduce order into the legislation that solves these problems, but what remains unclear to me, which is how the annex 1 is changed? Namely, in the original text of Appendix 1, there are as many as I have seen 3 pages. Not three, but five. Excuse me, one, two, three, three and a half. The original Annex 1 has specified all types of food products intended for human consumption, and the new proposal to significantly reduce this, so let's say there are no mollusks at all in the new proposal, but I guess we'll call the squid fish or clams again. Similarly, it seems to me that it is not explained why this format is changed, but not just the format, but also the content because what it says on the 3.5 pages is difficult to define in 8 indents, especially when you define all products individually on 3.5 pages. Therefore, flax raw or processed and wine of fresh grapes cannot be in the same category at all. In that sense, therefore, the HNS club will have reserves according to this approach, making the law further. This is a law that we will support because it is an adjustment to the European Union, but we are letting it know that this method of adapting our laws in 2 or 3 or even 5 steps as we have so far been the case that 5 times the law is coming back to us in advance is unacceptable to us because it is wasting our time, in some way underestimating the work of MPs, because it turns out that MPs always warn about certain problems of non-compliance, so when it comes back from the European Commission, then we pretend that nothing was in the previous debate, as if nothing had been said wisely, but in fact, it is overruling the key things and starting over again. To be honest, someone here is doing damage to the state. And I'd like to see that civil servants sometimes ask them about heroic health if they've done their salary properly or not. Because if some factory worker, if a shrimp is put aside and there's no incentive to pay for it, I don't know what's the big difference between a civil servant who writes laws and this way puts us in a position to spend hours and days on something that should have been solved a year ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33545	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33546	Here, Mr Vice President, this is actually about a whole set of incorrect allegations where Mr. MP wants to minimate the concept adopted by the European Union, which we want to accept to ensure that our producers are more profitable so that they can compete in these markets and that these markets are recognizable. I don't know what the reason for hypocrisy is under this law and the desire to be mined. And this is also absolutely incorrect, this is about cheese and cream, that at least now it's going to be put in the tetrapack, right, so that's going to be standard. That's not true and it's not true. Protection will ensure that it enters the legal system of trade, and that means that we as consumers, our children who consume it will know then that it has passed veterinary and health supervision. If a child were poisoned there in the market, don't give it to your God, then he would ask if you were to protect it and make sure it was under veterinary care. Not this kind of philosophy and demagogy. Because of this philosophy, we lose our pace, Mr. Representative, and we don't protect our products and others compete and take that market.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33547	Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33548	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This is the fourth time since I've been in Parliament to discuss this law. The amendment of the amendments, the amendment law, the amendment law, and always the representatives of the government, as well as the ruling majority, as Mr Kovacevic today claimed on behalf of HDZ that this law is important, that it is important, that it will help Croatian producers because it will achieve a higher, high and terrible high price of the product. I do not dispute that the law is necessary to comply with some regulations that have been amended in Europe in the meantime. Perhaps last year some regulations existed when we passed the law in May, May 29th, conducted a debate that did not fit in as often as it does. But something else bothers me. For the first time, such a law was passed in Croatia in 2003. So, since 2003. Croatia has legislation, protection of originality... And what the government did in May last year, you didn't even write it, you don't consider it a good proposal, in May last year, the government gave parliamentary deputies the information that it passed in 2003 and completed the protection procedure of 7 products. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All seven. Embarrassingly small seven. And that, 5 with the designation of originality Istrian prosciutto, olive oil Torkul, Cetinski cheese, Drnik prosciutto and Paška baskotin and 2 with geographical indication of Pag cheese and Slavonski domestic tower. From May 29 to this day, did he succeed in protecting any other product of any rank or category? 6 years of the existence of the law 7 protection. So why don't we have more? What do you think, people don't want to protect their origins? You don't think they know the law? They know. For example, an association from Međimurje for four years is trying to protect the flesh of the "tibles" they haven't succeeded yet. They're trying to protect the Trash cheese, they haven't been able to protect it yet. What's the problem, gentlemen? In the commission in which the Minister of Agriculture is established under Article 8 of the Law. Doesn't the commission work? Is there a problem with professional services doing that part of the job? When I first contacted the ministry in 2003, or then the authorities, four months after the law was passed, they told me, we don't even know how to enforce the law, let alone register. So, what's going on? We had one law, 3 changes, a new law last year, now a change of law and you say it will now significantly help Croatian protection producers. He won't. The law won't help anything. If you don't find out what the problem is, why the procedures last for 4 years or more. If people don't know, if they have to form some phantom associations, groups, alliances to appear as protectors. If they can't fill out the forms. They may have a problem with institutions that should monitor them and give them a certificate of sanitary conditions, health conditions, hygiene conditions, certificates. How many educations have there been on this subject? 'Is who helps people with these alliances, associations or groups to facilitate their process, because the state encourages this process or leaves agricultural producers who have to establish a secret dairy association to protect cheese "Toursch". Or manufacturers and pigmeat processors to protect the meat of "tibles". Meanwhile, the same products on the European market were protected by Slovenians, the neighbours of Prekmurci. It's a medimuric recipe. They did. Because they weren't complicated with the law changes. But that's what four people at the Ministry of Agriculture were doing and walking around Slovenia and Slovenian peasants helped them do it. And our ministries just write changes and supplement laws and regulations. And nothing else. Ever since someone picks up and tries to do it, then with great pride, this isn't good for you, you're missing this, you've got to fix this, you're still missing this, until people give up. It's the effect of the law, and it's the effect of this harmonisation if it doesn't change the relationship and let's say who would be happier than me if you came to the Parliament next year and said, not 7.27 protected products now. Of which 13 meets the conditions to gain protection in the territory of the entire European community. Of these 7 which have protection that is currently valid for the European Union area, are there any? All 7 refer only to the Croatian market, none to the European Community. Why, who's to blame, where's the problem, what do we need to change? That's what I'm interested in. Not this bureaucratic alignment with the language of bureaucrats from Brussels. And he's always over and over again. Now we're gonna change the law and now it's gonna be great. He won't. You know what? When you change the way you behave, I'm buying you a "tible" meat with "tibles", not a box, that's 120 kilos. Those who don't understand what "tible" or "tible meat" means. It's a wooden bowl containing salty bacon that first kept meat for 14 days, a bit cooked, then overcooked and then put in that hairy fat or ground fat, bacon. We're calling in Međimurje, not the fat. And "Toursch" and "black oil" to it or pumpkin oil, if you don't know what's black. It's the best diet you can have. But the Slovenians told us there is no protection for Europe. For four years, the torments of the people of Međimurje have taken place. Check it out. They couldn't do anything. In the meantime, you've changed the law three times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33549	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33550	Well, the Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, Mr. Lesar, has been mentioned since 2003, say 7 products. But this ferocity in this production, unfortunately, is even greater. 'Is and those 7 products that have passed at national level, they are not susceptible and consistent with the European and they are re-registered. I think that these problems and that futility in production are precisely the kind of creaminess I have to say again the law we're making. Because the law we passed a year ago, if it has 39 articles, of 57 should be changed, that it is 68%. And everywhere it says read to yourself, clarify, explain better. So I'm asking myself what kind of law it was and how, by virtue of that law, the people who filed to go to the registration now have to bring in additional things to carry out that registration. I think there's something else to do in that part, and probably the producers will react differently then.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33551	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33552	You're completely right. I'll only read two parts of the sentence. Last year, the government wrote. In accordance with the procedure which was in the jurisdiction of the State Intellectual Property Office, 7 names of food products are registered. So all 7 registrations were made when it was not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture at all. That's what the Bureau did before. The Ministry obviously doesn't have any more registrations. And what's tragic. All of these markings must restore their protection in accordance with the new procedure which is now in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture. So, when we passed a new law last year, all those seven had to go through a re-proceeding procedure. I'm asking now and after this change, everyone's going through a new procedure again. It doesn't say anything about it, but I wouldn't be surprised if someone found out that even those who had already had protection had to renew the procedure, and every new law is a new procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33553	Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33554	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The Government of the Republic of Croatia programme for 2008 to 2011 in the area of rural, agricultural and food provisions in view of the strategic importance of the food industry in the Republic of Croatia, the need to further strengthen the competitiveness of the products of this sector and its integration with the primary production of agricultural products and to use its own potential and insurance of domestic products and to reduce imports and increase exports to the European and world markets in the long term. Many of the measures envisaged to achieve this are further harmonisation of Croatian legislation for the area of protection of indigenous agricultural and food products with the legislation of the European Union, as well as the implementation of the registration procedure of designations of origin, geographical origin and the designation of traditional reputation of agricultural and food products. And this bill of law that we are doing today combines these two measures. The area of originality, the designation of origin, the geographical indication and the designation of traditional reputation was regulated through several laws and sublaws. However, as already stated here in the implementation of the registration procedure and the procedure for establishing compliance at national level under the applicable law and taking into account the legal practice of other Member States of the European Union, shortcomings have been observed. Therefore, there was also a need to amend the existing model of conformity and, consequently, the need to amend it in the process of registering the label and enrolling the users of the label in the corresponding registers run by the Ministry. The papers adopted by this proposal relate primarily to the amendment of the procedure, meaning the national registration procedure and the protection of agricultural and food products with the designation of origin, the geographical indication and the designation of traditional reputation at national level. The second amendment concerns the establishment and implementation of the conformity of registered agricultural and food products with one of the national specifications. The third amendment refers to the way in which the products registered are marked also at national level but also to the modification of this very significant inclusion of both salt and cotton as a special category of protection. All those amendments should allow, first and foremost, consumer protection in order to meet their expectations, first and foremost economic interests where the price is a very important factor but also conformity-finding system and to regulate the area of protection of those products, which is a presumption of protection at European Union level. It is so important that manufacturers in the Republic of Croatia have the exact same protection for products that producers in the European Union have, as well as their visibility. This will then have an indirect impact on raising the level of competitiveness of domestic production, which is also the priority goal of the Croatian agricultural policy that I mentioned at the beginning. But I believe that this is not only the reason for this law, but the real reasons I see in our great untapped possibilities right here in this area. All Croatian counties are known for a product and each of them is a story of rich tradition, experience, life, customs of numerous generations of Croatian families. Many who come only to the island of Pag faced with stone wonder how life is even possible and despite such a first impression, the island gives an extraordinary amount. The islanders who are used to the least were able to make the most of the most during the century to make special products that are now given national categorization, such as paška cheese, paška baskotin and paška salt. I will briefly tell the story of a Pag garden which is registered as one of the rare products with the designation of originality and it is really a story of rich tradition and experience, a unique recipe, unique taste and also of guardians. The Benedictin sisters from the monastery of St Margarita in Pag have been making a special type of hard pastry for three centuries. The recipe is over 300 years old, has never gone outside the walls of the monastery, but the paška baskotin has come out, and many have been refreshed. Bakotin has both properties and immaterial cultural goods. It is interesting but also instructive to observe how food is usually not usually but especially valuable hard pastry turning into a cultural good with useful exchange and identity value and becoming a means of creating social distinctions. And another product with pasha cheese, of course, which is known to many. Paška baskotin has prepared another, so with Paška cheese and Paška baskotin another product from this area is prepared for a hike into Europe, which is paška salt or salty paška crystals. And she has her own story, for centuries she has made it possible for the Pažanas to live a safe and rich life, to ensure that they stay on the island. Paška salt is also the first Croatian product protected by the designation of origin by European Union rules and is the first on the road to obtaining a designation of origin in the European Union. I am sure colleagues and colleagues that such or similar stories could bring each and every one of you out of their own region but perhaps not with such traditions and guardians but certainly there are far more than registered with designations of originality in the Republic of Croatia. Here, let this debate of mine today be an incentive for at least part of the heritage to be selflessly drawn, registered and protected, which will enrich the market and tourist offer but also proudly enter as our own in the heritage of the European Union. So I support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33555	Thank you. Final review State Secretary Srecko Selanac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33556	Mr. Vice President, honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs. I would refer with a few words only to the discussion carried out which was possible to say even very constructive even though it applied to several laws, meaning not only to the Law on designations of origin, indications of geographical origin of food and marks of traditional reputation, but also to its parts of the Food Act and also to the elements contained in the hygiene package, means a lot of constructive discussion that we will likely apply in our future activities in the Ministry of Agriculture. What I would like to say perhaps just to look at a few of the things that are highlighted and that require a certain answer, which is part of a large amount of changes in the articles, means where 67% of the materials have been said that it has been changed... or by a number of 67% of articles which in some ways can be statistically correct, but it is essentially not relevant to the real situation at all because we, using changes in EU regulations, have changed certain things within our law, and these changes have generated changes through some other articles. So a few of the essential things that have been changed changed changed have changed some of the articles later with automation. What is important in this whole debate is that in the last year when we passed this law we made it according to the current regulations of the European Union. Also, Regulation 417/2008 was not in that capacity, so at the moment of law enforcement and the procedure, it was not adopted so that unfortunately we could not include it inside. But here, we have now included it inside, and this regulation has generated the largest part of the amendments in this bill. So we are fully seeking to bring every law in line with EU legislation. What is important, and this is that in the future as soon as certain regulations are changed within the European Union we will try very quickly to apply it to our laws, not only these but also other laws. So in the event of a change in regulation, we can expect a re-amending of this law. This law should in any case serve for the benefit of all those who use it and also the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, in a given section, we stress that, in order to successfully implement this law, it is necessary to establish associations or associations of agricultural producers. Associations or associations represent several individuals and are free and are open to association of all those who want to protect a particular product and we believe that they, normally and in European regulations, are thus prescribed, responsible and most similar to those of national interest. Not to be protected as an individual mark, i.e. that the individual protects the label for himself and manages with a particular mark which is nevertheless of national interest, rather than its own product. Several times there was also mention of the flesh from the table. I have tried the product, I can say that it is as great as all our other indigenous products, and I believe that perhaps the gentleman knows, the distinguished representative, that the Ministry of Agriculture through the marketing preparation project of agricultural and food products supports this product and I think that we will bring this product to the list of our protected products. Because every product protection is not cheap and we are just through projects like this, associations that protect such products support and financially and try to help them prepare this product for protection. The procedure is more complicated than it was in previous years, but it is more complicated just to be consistent with the European Union procedure. I don't think it would be right for us at national level to start the whole process and to come up with a huge amount of documentation to protect at national level and then tell the manufacturer or the association, the interested party, that he must now do all this again but slightly different to protect it at European Union level. We try to regulate through this law that what is managed to protect at national level with almost identical documentation goes to protection in the European Union, so we make it easier for our producers to protect themselves at European Union level. It is also this law that allows the European Union regulations to enable manufacturers to protect, before becoming a Member State, the indigenous product, i.e. these products with these labels at European Union level. What I would also like to emphasise is that the whole series of follow-up measures the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development is following the producers of indigenous products as highlighted here in the debate, which means not only to protect the name, but we also fully support other parts relating to production, the creation of the market and the creation of normal and hygienic conditions in which it will be produced. I would only draw attention to a whole series of measures, I would point out measure 6 concerning the equipment of production plants for the production of agricultural and food products and the processing that monitors everything means from the production of various indigenous products to those of commercial other products. We also equip sales places through a measure that just stimulates the equipment of sales places, and we also have a diversification of agricultural activity in the family farms themselves. So, a whole series of parallel measures are being followed by our producers. Another emphasis only, and this is probably also the parliamentary representatives know, and this is equipment, or these are our operational programs. One of the operational programmes is the operational programme for the production of Slavonian cuisine, which is intended for five counties within the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which is the most engaged in the equipment of production facilities, but also stimulates the production of raw materials in the area of these five counties and the only raw materials with these five counties can be used in the operational programme. So, just stimulating the production of pigs, fat pigs, in the area of these five counties in Slavonia, allows for the production of an indigenous product without a single kilo of import pork. What was here several times mentioned meat from China etc. So here we're just stimulated by the Ministry to produce domestic raw materials for a domestic indigenous product and it's included in this part. Several times, protected products were mentioned. I would just say that according to this new law, where it has been cited that they have to be protected again that they have to because certain provisions are different in the law which has been passed and which are in line with European Union legislation and by the end of the year, manufacturers for the renewal of the registration should have submitted applications for those products. The applications for these products have submitted five products, with the fact that I have to say that they are just in the final stage. Also, in the registration process, we have two more new products that are now, which is Ogulinic acid cabbage and Istrian olive oil. Normally, here's where the protection at the end mentions the salt of ours. And I have to mention that right now in the design of specifications that will enter the protection process very quickly, there is a whole range of products, here I will highlight only the Polish soparnik, character potato, varazdinian cabbage, cherry maraska, olive oil, Dalmatian golden shapes and normally a whole series of others. So there they are, they're working on them, products are being created, and soon the palette is spreading very significantly. What I would also like to say is that we have received amendments to our law. So from the Legislative Committee, the first amendment is to Articles 9, 13 and 17, we accept it. The second amendment is also accepted on Articles 11, 22, 24, 26 and 31. And the third amendment is to Articles 36 and 37, we also accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33557	Thank you very much. As far as the kitchen is concerned, you must do so according to that Slavonic song, which reads, "when our old pigs were harvesting." You know? Isn't that right, Shima? I'm closing the debate. Thank you. Mrs. Danica Hursa's club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33559	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. The proposal for a Consumer Credit Act introduces entirely new solutions to existing legal solutions provided for in the Consumer Protection Act. So far, these are the new solutions I'm not going to repeat, but I'll just maybe underline one thing. The total amount of credit shall be determined from at least one thousand to one million kuna. The directive provides for an amount of 200 to 75 000 euros, so there is no reason for our purchase night, or better to say the impotence, why in our legal solution the amount of the largest loan is significantly higher and amounts to cca 137 thousand euros. The adoption of this law shall ensure the implementation of Directive 2008/48 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2008, on consumer credit contracts which increase consumer legal protection, by the same principles as in the European Union. However, the implementation of the law in practice and the supervision of the implementation of this law is controversial, which is the weakest and most problematic part of this law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Paragraph 2 of this Article shall be subject to the supervision of the implementation of this law of creditors operating on the basis of work authorisation, i.e. approvals for the provision of services issued by the Croatian National Bank, in accordance with the laws governing the business of credit institutions, credit unions and payment institutions, by the Croatian National Bank in the manner and in the scope prescribed by those laws. The Croatian National Bank also conducts supervision of the application of this law and of other creditors who, in accordance with the law governing the business of credit institutions, provide credit approval services in the Republic of Croatia directly or through a branch. The supervisory authorities referred to in this Article may, for the purposes of supervision, adopt implementing rules under their jurisdiction. So, based on the above provisions, there is no single supervisory body for total consumer lending in the Republic of Croatia, which will be all perceived failures and problems if they are implemented by law, trying to correct changes and additions to laws or sublegal acts, but the supervision is divided into several entities which in no way will and did not bring any good in Croatian practice. In addition to the great damage to consumers for which no entity was ever responsible for overseeing and respecting legality. Even though their responsibility has been unquestionably proven. Just to remind the first years of the 1990s, it was "Sutla-Senkovec" and other savings credit offices that damaged citizens by tens of millions of kunas, and in the early 1990s and early 2000s some of the savings credit cooperatives founded under the Law on Saving Credit Cooperatives damaged citizens, for example, as Virovitsk savings credit cooperative and the Saving Credit Cooperative "Varaždin Cekin" for more than 100 million kuna each. And many other savings credit cooperatives for tens of millions of kunas, for which no one in the supervisory entity was responsible, even though by law the Ministry of Finance was clearly appointed as a supervisory body. The legislator could not deny the problems observed, so the Law on Credit Unions and amendments and additions to the Law on Banks that enabled the transformation of savings credit cooperatives into credit unions or... bank, and the supervision of business is now entrusted to the Croatian National Bank, which directly recognises that the supervision of the Ministry of Finance has not been reached by the law provided for and expected supervision. Despite the above, complete non-acceptable control and supervision solutions are now proposed to be re-proposed to the essential segment of consumer credit to the consumer where Article 21 proposes that authorisation be granted for the provision of consumer credit services to the Ministry of Finance for a period of 3 years, and the Minister of Finance prescribed the obligation to report to the Ministry of Finance and the conditions of approval and the reasons for refusing to grant approval, as well as the documentation for providing consumer credit services to creditors and intermediaries not in the jurisdiction of the CNB. The competent authorities of the State Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia shall then carry out the supervision of the implementation of this law, which is totally unacceptable, because one body carries out one part of the work related to the issue of work licences, and another body whose financial operations are not primary tasks and which does not have resources or knowledge does the other part of the same work, which includes supervision, but probably only after the application, because if there is no application, there is no control. What about regular and sudden controls of surveillance subjects? A number of risks are present if the proposed team is accepted more than we have been faced with for years that consumer lending is carried out beyond the institutions of the so-called system. Bander credits where individual legal entities are able to grant loans and loans to consumers very often on interest rates and beyond all legal provisions without sanctions and supervision and consumers are left to themselves, and these are mostly those categories of consumers who are the most property weak and least educated. With this missing proposal for monitoring these credit offices as they are uninterruptedly advertised on the facades of all our cities, they will only legalise their business and control them will be much smaller than former savings and credit unions that should have been credited by small entrepreneurs and craftsmen, and in fact, the vast majority of them have dealt with by lending citizens and caused a number of criminal activities that our judiciary will deal with for a number of years which we are responsible for, and we who are passing laws that are seen in advance that will not work well in practice. There are a number of good solutions in practice in the practice of European Union Member States when it comes to the control and supervision of banking and financial services where, for example, in far larger countries, Germany has united, rationalised and improved the supervision of the establishment of a single body of a federal office for supervision of financial services where entities are the control of all banking transactions, the capital market and insurance services when it comes to the issue of work licences and when it comes to regular and extraordinary supervision, prudential supervision and supervision, upon the reporting of users who are the basis of the control of the implementation of each law in practice, which enables the adoption of amendments and the addition of laws if it is shown in practice necessary. In our case, these banking supervision operations are carried out by the CNB and the supervision of the capital market, funds and insurance services is carried out by the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency HANFA and the Ministry of Finance in one segment, as currently foreseen by the Consumer Credit Law, which cannot provide quality, rational and efficient and ultimately cheaper supervision, especially over these complex services such as banking and financial services. It is time to consider the establishment of a single body for the supervision and control of banking and financial services in the Republic of Croatia, because the solutions proposed in this law are not acceptable and will not ensure the supervision of consumer credit for citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33560	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. He's losing his word. And Madam Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33561	Thank you very much. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This Consumer Credit Act is one we can say the free additional instrument of total consumer protection but in a specific very sensitive area, therefore in the area of lending. In fact, the hunger for credit funds on the one hand and the increasingly limited capital sources on the other hand provided creditors firstly with the banks with status, we could almost tell the gods that determined the terms of the credit rating literally as they wanted. They were almost not allowed to be asked for the terms of credit, so credit users very often did not even know what they were signing or at least did not know it unequivocally at the time of the signing of the loan agreement. It is therefore good that this area is set out in the Consumer Protection Act and is now governed by this special law. Thus far, this area has been regulated by 15 articles of the Consumer Protection Act. It is good that this legislative proposal provides for a series of provisions that will ensure a more correct and fairer attitude towards a specific consumer group in Croatia, a very large number, according to credit users. Some of the proposed provisions are not at the will of the bankers, I mean their reaction to the amount of credit the law refers to. In fact, the promoter proposes protection for loans up to a million kunas while bankers suggest that protection applies to loans only to 500 thousand kunas, but this is actually quite clear because it is about conflicting interests. However, it is of course important to us that citizens of credit users I repeat are concerned with the largest group of citizens in Croatia. I'm actually afraid that right now you can count on the fingers of one of the citizens in Croatia who don't have at least one loan. It is therefore good to keep a million kunas the maximum amount of credit to which this law applies because it ensures therefore greater and more comprehensive protection of citizens. Just a few words about the news, so these new levers that ensure greater security. According to this proposal, the creditor is obliged to provide the consumer with information on the change in interest rates if a variable interest rate is agreed for at least 15 days before the start of application. Furthermore, the obligation to regularly notify and state of the account as well as the set of other data in the case of use of the permitted overrun on the current account shall be introduced. Furthermore, consumers are provided with much more flexible conditions for the cancellation of revolving loans. Consumers shall be guaranteed the right to give up credit within 14 days without giving a reason. It is important to improve consumer positions in the event of temporary repayment of credit. So far, high amounts of compensation have been a factor in giving up early payment. It is now proposed that the compensation cannot be higher than the cost of the credit paid by the consumer to pay the rest of the loan normally to the end, so it cannot be greater than the interest you would be counting on the consumer to have no such early payments. So, because of all this stuff I've listed, this law is welcome and it's good to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33562	Thank you. State Secretary Zdravko Maric's closing statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33563	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. I'd like to thank you for the discussion, and I can say constructive comments. Let me just finish by saying two things that concern, so first of all, the European Directive and its interpretation. It says the minimum that needs to be covered in terms of consumer protection and it is indeed between 200 and 75 thousand euros, but it is not binding. Therefore, it is possible for the country to simply expand that gauge which defines the directive that we have done on that top line, which has actually contributed to additional consumer protection. And also, let me just say, so I don't think at this point there's any reason to be so suspicious of the supervision and control of the implementation of this law, generally consumer protection because, as I said in the opening statement, the Credit Institutions Act is therefore a Croatian National Bank that exercises consumer control and protection in terms of credit institutions and credit unions. On the other hand, according to the Consumer Protection Act, there is the State Inspectorate. Their inspectors have already started with education and education so that, in fact, in this segment, we can say to the transition period, which is better actually to master this additional material and simply implement the provisions of this law. And finally, let me just say, so we've got amendments to the Legislative Committee. All amendments are acceptable, the government accepts the same as the amendment of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33564	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the final draft of the Law amending the Law on Electronic Money Institutions and then on to the order.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33565	4. Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on designations of origin, geographical indications and designations of traditional reputation of agricultural and food products. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 345. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted the Committee's amendment. There's no vote on him. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I am voting on the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on designations of origin, geographical indications and marks of traditional reputation of agricultural and food products. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was adopted by the majority of votes, 102 votes for, 5 abstentions and 1 against, together with the amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33566	Let's go to another point tonight. We're trying to take her down by half past seven. - Final bill on consumer lending, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 338 Proposer is Government, it's an emergency procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, European Integration, Finance and the State Budget. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Zdravko Maric will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33567	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. So, you have before you the table of the Consumer Credit Bill. A few words about him. First of all, the subject of the regulation of the Consumer Credit Act is credit agreements including loans and other similar transactions concluded with consumers, the necessary scope of information and the right of credit agreements, access to databases, supervision and protection of consumer rights. This law proposes applying to credit agreements covering the total amount of loans from 1500 kuna to million kuna. The draft law details all the necessary information relating to the credit agreement to be provided to the consumer prior to the conclusion of the loan agreement, all in order to enable the consumer to make easier use of different credits. It is also detailed what the loan contract must contain. A trustee's obligation to assess the consumer's creditworthiness in the event of cross-border lending is also regulated and suggests that creditors from the Member States of the European Union can use data from credit registers to assess the creditworthiness of consumers. The proposed law gave the consumer the opportunity to give up the loan contract without giving rise to reason within 14 days. In the event of withdrawal, the consumer shall be obliged to pay the creditor the principal and the interest on the principal from the date of withdrawal of the money on the basis of the credit agreement until the date of repayment of the principal without delay and no later than 30 days from the date on which the creditor informed of the withdrawal. In the event of early repayment of the loan, the believer shall be entitled to a fee which shall not exceed 1% of the amount of the loan previously paid if the period between the early payment date and the maturity period of the loan contract is longer than one year, or 0.5% of the amount of the loan if the period is shorter than one year. The law also regulates credit intermediaries. They are defined as natural and legal persons who, in the context of their trade, trade or professions, offer credit agreements to consumers, assist consumers in taking preparatory work in terms of credit agreements or make credit agreements with consumers on behalf of creditors. The trustee and credit intermediary shall be obliged to receive approval for the provision of their services, and the authorisation shall be granted by the Ministry of Finance. Approval does not require credit institutions, credit unions, HBORs and creditors who exclusively credit their employees. This bill also provides for an effective interest rate (ECF) to be calculated in accordance with the methodology defined by the Croatian National Bank Act to be regulated by the ECS. The implementation is supervised by competent inspectors of the State Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia, and by credit institutions and credit unions as this esteemed House was brought by the Croatian National Bank. The envisaged entry into force of the draft law is 1 January 2010, while creditors, i.e. credit intermediaries, are obliged to comply with their business provisions of this law by 1 January 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33568	The committees? I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, Ms. Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33569	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Right at the beginning, I would like to say that the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club will support the adoption of the Consumer Credit Act. By proposing the adoption of this law, it seeks to regulate itself in one place, by one legal act, the area of consumer lending but at the same time to comply with Directive 2008/48 of the European Parliament. Thus far, this area has been governed by Articles 71 to 86 of the Consumer Protection Act, which has proved insufficient and insufficiently processed. On the other hand, the types and forms of credit offered to consumers and used as new credit instruments have been significantly expanded lately, and their use continues to develop. That is why it was necessary to pass a law that detailedly regulates this segment of consumer credit. The proposed law therefore regulates consumer credit agreements, information and credit agreements, access to the database, supervision and protection of consumer rights, in which consumers taking credit and for the purpose of determining this law come into play as a credit user. It is evident from this definition that in law there is an emphasis on the correct and timely informing of consumers and on the rights and protection of consumer rights as a consumer of consumer credit. More detailed information is prescribed, so it must be the same information for the same type of credit. This information must therefore be the same in all banks in order to compare the costs, i.e. the amount of the repayment of the loan. And we find it easier to make credit-user decisions about taking that credit with a particular believer. What we think is also important is that the law therefore allows the consumer to give up the loan contract within 14 days without giving up the reason. He is obliged to inform the believer and pay the believer the principal and interest on the capital from the day of the withdrawal of the money. The law also provides for conditions, actions and deadlines under which it can be used. What we also consider to be very good, and this is decided that the consumer has the right to settle its obligations before the date set by the loan agreement. That has been so far, but now it is much more favourable for the consumer or the credit user. In the case of early repayment, partly or entirely, the believer shall be entitled to compensation, i.e. compensation directly linked to the previous payment, taking into account any savings by the creditors. The calculation of compensation to be paid to the creditor must be transparent and comprehensible to consumers already before the contract is concluded, and in any event during the entry into force of the contract. Moreover, the method of calculation should be simple to allow consumers to apply it and compensation control by supervisory authorities should be facilitated. The prescribed amount of compensation cannot exceed 1% of the amount of credit previously paid if the maturity of the contract is longer than one year, and if it is less than one year then that fee cannot exceed 0.5% of the amount of the loan. It is also prescribed by law that the believer may seek compensation for early repayment only provided that the amount exceeds the threshold of 75000 kuna over the 12 months period. The credit intermediaries he has on this market are subject to supervision, therefore credit intermediaries' obligations towards consumers and creditors are prescribed. They must also have, importantly, the approval granted by the Ministry of Finance for a period of 3 years. We also believe that the sanctions provided for by this law, will ensure compliance with all obligations, punishment for illegal conduct, especially so-called. gray loans and gray creeds. And finally, here is the basis of everything, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club will support the adoption of this Consumer Credit Act. We believe and believe that other clubs will also support the adoption of this law because we all here in the House advocate that consumers, or consumers, must be protected, and that is exactly what this Consumer Credit Act does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33570	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33571	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues from the Ministry. My colleagues and colleagues of SDP representatives, the SDP Representatives Club will support this Proposal for a Consumer Credit Act for several already known reasons. The fact is that the market in this part and in this sector is developing and that there is now a whole series of services and lending and that I simply have to have a clear regulation that restricts all sorts of things and protects consumers in some way, i.e. Croatian citizens. What we think is important to say, to point out, we support it means that finally once and for all, they disappear from bus stations, tramways, those tiny little papers where fast loans are offered. After all, citizens usually pay a lot more. They rarely get into a situation where they have to pay them back a lot more than they should be allowed to. It's just that the state had no control over that whole story. On the other hand, we also support the proposal's intention that the citizen has space to look at and think about the conditions defined when lending because very often it happens that in the forest of these papers and tiny letters sometimes there are some parts which are not acceptable to consumers and this 14-day legal deadline is quite understandable and acceptable for the consumer to change and return a specific credit or service for which the lending was provided. As far as the fee is concerned, I have to say here that we are absolutely in favour of the fact that fees that are sometimes not taken with enough attention when lending and are thought to be not a huge cost that happens in capital markets. We all took some credits and we know how much it is at the time of approval, and sometimes this law defines at the time of payment how high these fees are and when we look at the CNB's report, we see that there are significant revenue from fees and certain fees in the revenues made by those who give such credits. It's about billions of kunas a year. About last year, only revenues from fees were about 3 billion kuna. Compensation and commissions that the banks had on the loans made. These are large amounts and very often these fees were over 1%, as defined by this law, and we believe in the SDP that a lower rate should be put in, or that, I see no reason why they would create the difference between a year and over a year. We believe that such a rate should be at most 0.5% of the amount of the rest of the loan. So not 1, but 0.5% of the rest of the loan, and that's how some people make a better payment if someone wants to pay off the loan right away. On the other hand, we are certainly in favour of Article 16(4) which says that the compensation shall not be paid in the event that the credit is paid in a period during which it is not fixed. So if it's fixed, then there's no charge. If it is a fixed interest rate, kill means unless it is a fixed interest rate, then it is mandatory to pay, and we believe that it may go in the direction of the popularisation of the fixed interest rate credit which is unfortunately only 13% of all loans in Croatia today, while other countries, such as Germany, Austria, France, are 94%. So we're heading towards providing Croatian citizens with conditions and banks with incentives to move more towards fixed interest rates. It is very likely that both France and Germany and Austria are not only citizens who have been credited with the fact that such a amount of fixed interest rates, but also the state is trying to stimulate the consumer, i.e. the credit user, to protect them, or to stimulate interest rates to be fixed, that the consumer knows exactly how much they will pay, how many wars his credit will be throughout the time the credit is paid. Finally, we must say that we are not naturally happy when we see the situation that happens when we take credit, or on the market as regards interest rates. Every day they are more and more, Croatian citizens from part of their salaries at the expense of their standard pay higher interest, higher credit rates. It's about all types of loans, of course. The most interest, of course, is on the exceeded minus in this year, which is recessional and difficult for Croatian citizens, so I think we should make extra effort to talk to Croatian banks so that Croatian citizens can be as protected as possible and pay as little as possible from their standards to increase these interest rates. What we have to say is we don't accept any announcements and messages from the banking association that the profits this year are equal to or slightly higher than those of the past years. We believe that this is not an appropriate situation in which Croatia is located and we believe that in some way the banking sector should see the problem of this crisis recession year and give up some of the profits in order to make Croatian citizens the best of this recession year. Of course, appeal is very difficult to achieve, and we believe that sometimes legal solutions can come about. One of these laws is also this law and therefore the SDP's Club of Representatives will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33572	Final draft consumer credit law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 338. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the SDP Representatives' Club. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment committees and did not vote on it because they became an integral part of the final draft law under Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the SDP's amendment to the SDP's Club of Representatives. Mr. Zdravko Marić, State Secretary on Article 16.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33573	Thank you very much. The government does not accept this amendment. So, the intention is recognised, well that this law limits the amount of maximum compensation for early payment. However, we believe that it is necessary to leave that differentiation between the repayment deadlines of up to one year and over a year, all in accordance with the European Directive and European rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33574	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33575	Thank you very much. The intensity of this amendment is that, and as the promoter has put in the 0.5% law, it is simply that this period will be, not only up to a year, but over a year and pay off, especially when it comes to loans of larger amounts, they can be much more than they are real costs and we believe that this amount is appropriate and I ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-17-0.u33576	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final proposal for a consumer credit law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law has been passed by most votes. 99 votes for, 10 abstentions and one against along with accepted amendments. And now we're moving on, because we've established the agenda. First, the final bill, here's the first good morning for everyone. I'm sorry this is a little bit like this, but we're moving on to - The final draft law amending the Law on Electronic Money Institutions, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 346 The draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 159. Rules of Procedure. The emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Mr. Zdravko Maric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
