ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40109	Thank you, Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs. Before you is the proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency. A new member of the Governing Council should be appointed instead of the late former member of Dr. Lucky Lipovcan. The Government of the Republic of Croatia established, on the basis of the procedure under the published public invitation at the meeting held on 22 September 2009, the Proposal for a Decision appointing Vlaha Bogisic to be a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency in the order of experts. That proposal for a decision was submitted to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40110	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40111	Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have so far had a whole series of cases that the Parliament unfortunately appointed, missed very important bodies, councils, advices, committees, people who didn't even have professional biography of a particular weight, and not a publicly certified performance, so often times when we named them, we forgot. However, we now have a completely different case. The promoter suggests that we appoint Mr Vlah Bogisic as the Management Board of the Croatian News Agency and this is a great proposal for a number of reasons. Mr. Bogisic has a long public biography. It also has a habitat situated in miles of cultural activity for about thirty years. What may be most important to us are his views, his way of communication, and we can say that the appointment of Mr. Bogisic will certainly be given to a man who is not a silencer, who is not an outsider, but who will advocate some clear principles that we can know about and therefore if we read his column over the past years, if we follow his performances as vice president of the Croatian Mother, if we follow his lexiographic work. In any case, I also have the privilege of knowing Mr Bogisic personally and it is not once that I did not agree with him in the attitudes, but the way he puts his views, explains, arguments and enters the polemics, and it is very important to me that a man has such a caliber that he has a polemic note, that he has a polemic caliber that is only to be respected and welcomed. He is not a man who will hide behind the institution, and in this case he will certainly not sit on the Administrative Council of HINA just watching things go past him and I am sure that he will contribute to certain shortcomings in the work of HINA especially in HINA management but also in filtering political information over time being reduced or perhaps even removed. In this sense, the Croatian People's Party club of Liberal Democrats will support the appointment of Mr Vlah Bogisic as the Administrative Council of the Croatian News Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40112	Thank you. No one's answered any further. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. 30. Proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Reporting News Agency. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The appointing decision was accepted by most votes, 94 votes to, 3 abstentions, nothing against. In the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40115	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I think that given the subject, we need to say some of the reasons for our Committee's 2008 Presentation and Appeals Report, because we all need to be aware that the problems exist, that people, citizens, our fellow citizens have problems, have problems in achieving their rights. And that as the last instance where they try to solve their problem, they find it in a complaint against our committee. I have no intention, you all looked at the report as much as anyone wanted. I just want to point out some things, that we held six sessions during the reporting period of one year to discuss the performances, or complaints of different content. The Committee pointed to a violation of the human rights of citizens and, accordingly, took certain views and reached conclusions that it referred to the competent authorities in order to take actions to address the problems of our citizens. In 2008, the Committee received and processed a total of 483 written performances, received a call from citizens, and responded to frequent phone calls. All representations of the Board's service shall be processed and addressed to the competent authorities for consideration or direct response to the representative. And in this report it is necessary to underline what we saw in our work and what we think should be pointed out. This is the long-term duration of judicial and administrative proceedings as well as the inability to execute powerful and executive decisions. Non-execution of judgments of the administrative court by the administrative authorities, a significant number of performances in the field of pension relations and social care users, which highlight the difficult existential problems of a part of the public and the return of property in connection with this resolution of ownership rights. If we did, it would be something that could be a framework for all those problems, that is, the biggest part of the problems that we have heard, that we have talked to citizens and worked with at our sessions. So we divided the reports into residential and municipal affairs where we had 95 submissions, from property-legal relations 125, from social health issues 153, from the work of courts and local self-government 87 and the report mentions characteristic cases and there is one case I take for myself as the chairman of this committee to say at this session a few sentences. Because of the Croatian Parliament, because of the professional services of the Croatian Parliament, because of the Secretary of the Croatian Parliament and I would like to point out that the fact that we had problems in the long term response from certain ministries, administrative bodies, institutions which, as a parliamentary committee of joint conclusions, had almost always been unanimous, lasted a long time until we received some answers. What I would like to single out is that when we bring in, and the committee has made a specific recommendation, it is about the former secretary of the Croatian Parliament, there is already more than a year and a few days, that we have only recently received a written reply from the current Secretary of Parliament and that a year and a half after that, nothing has been resolved in this house. That's what I think needs to be singled out, because it confirms, I wouldn't want to confirm it, but it seems to confirm the attitude towards the citizens, to those who need our help, and I must, as chairman of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, express my exceptional dissatisfaction with the fact that I can't get an answer from this house in an adequate way and in the suggestion of the committee and the proposal we made. I therefore appeal from this speaker to both the President of the Croatian Parliament and the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, and the Secretary of Parliament to find time to consider the play and some answers, because according to what we know, damage will be done to this institution, to this House, given that both the administrative court and the municipal court in Zagreb have ruled in favour of the prosecutor and I think that a discussion and agreement should be accepted. In the end, let me just have final consideration and I think it's important to read them here. That the submissions of citizens who point to court proceedings, particularly because of the long-term resolution of administrative disputes before the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, so the committee often sent hastens to the President of the Administrative Court with a request to speed it up. It was mainly about resolving citizens' status issues. In this regard, we stress the failure to execute the rulings of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia by individual ministries, i.e. making new solutions in accordance with the judgments adopted. Second. The concepts which, with their content and numbers, refer to infringements of the rights before the competent authorities in the field of pension, health insurance and social care, are all those things that I mentioned in a certain way and I want to underline here that problems exist, that, before problems, we as people chosen by our constituents cannot close our eyes and this is about people's fates, not political membership, about political colors. So please, I appeal on behalf of our colleagues and on the board and all others that things begin to be resolved faster, more expedient, fairer and fairer than our citizens. And one last thing we noticed is that, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, it is the Committee for Presentations and Appeals that handles all kinds of performances that come to the Croatian Parliament, we noticed that a good part of the presentations of citizens send other committees and that one part of them stands long on individual committees. From the Committee on Internal Policy, through the Office of President-in-Office of the Parliament, etc. I pray and appeal for a quicker solution to these concepts and answers to the citizens or to the bodies themselves or through our committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40116	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40117	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear President of the Board of Appeals and Presentations, colleagues and colleagues. We have received a report on the work of the Board of Appeals and the presentations in which the introductory notes only provide an indicative part of the Committee's work. The number of sessions held as well as the data on the total performances of 483, although the total number of those shown in chapters 1 to 5 is 10, respectively, of more than 493. It has been pointed out that the committee is receiving a call for citizens, but it is not specified which issue has been presented in these talks, as well as whether or not new complaints have arisen about the work of the competent authorities in the context of human rights violations of citizens. Furthermore, the most frequent telephone queries of citizens are not defined to determine from which area and which competent authorities of citizens have observations. In its report, the Committee points first to the length of court and administrative proceedings, but this information is not presented in any kind of procedure and no type of case has been presented, disputed to show ultimately which courts or their departments are delaying the proceedings and in which cases. It would also be desirable to determine which courts are involved, given their local jurisdiction. Furthermore, it has not been established whether citizens who address the Committee, who are party to the proceedings following a long-term court dispute, are paid compensation from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and in what amount. And whether such demands have been filed. The Committee further points out the inability to execute the powers and executive decisions and not to execute the judgments of the Administrative Court, but the circumstances and reasons of these allegations and the causes of non-execution of the judgments of the Administrative Court have not been established, and therefore it is important to question the functioning of the rule of law, since long-term proceedings before a court which, even under certain assumptions, the parties have the right to financial compensation if the outcome of this procedure which is successful for the party cannot be carried out or cannot be carried out. The following report is submitted through residential, or municipal business. In this respect, the Committee presented information on the total number of submissions received and processed but the report did not specify the number of submissions in matters of settlement of the housing issue as well as the area of competence of operations, and in which areas the renewal of the war on broken houses is carried out, and in which areas specific public concerns have problems with the restoration of broken houses. Furthermore, the dispute of the local authorities and courts has been observed but there is no indication of the information that has been taken by the Committee in these cases, and which potentially difficult circumstances are cited by local authorities as the cause of the dispute in the resolution of citizens' complaints. Further abuse of the position of civil servants and officials has been established but no measures have been taken by the Committee and the possible outcome of the procedure. The following area is the area of property relations, the Committee presented data on the total number of received and processed submissions almost the largest of the total arrivals. Highlighted the specificity of this issue but lacked a review in which proceedings were conducted, possibly taken by the Committee in terms of unifying the criteria in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the area of social health policy has been processed, and the Committee has provided information on the total number of submissions received and processed but no specific infringements of the rights and local jurisdiction of the competent authorities. In this regard, the data provided would be the basis for a warning to the competent ministry as well as for the possible taking of measures against civil servants who are unfounded to delay the proceedings. Furthermore, the number of these performances is just pointing to the fact that additional efforts need to be made in the investigation into the basis of the complaints in order to speed up the proceedings before the competent authorities in this sensitive area of action in order to ensure that citizens exercise acquired rights, the right to health care as well as social care rights. In this area, it is also important to establish a list of local competent offices which, in their actions, delay the recognition or exercise of rights. The non-execution of the rulings of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia by the competent ministries has also been highlighted, but they are not indicated, as are the reasons for the non-execution of the cited verdict. The fourth area you worked on was the work of courts and local self-government, despite the relatively large number of performances on the work of courts and local self-government, it was found that the Committee had not interfered with the work of the judicial authority and that it was only putting up with haste to speed up the course of the proceedings. The report does not specify the claims as well as the areas covered by the work of the local administration to which the public submits representations, as well as their local jurisdiction, indicate the non-execution of powerful judgments, the circumstances resulting from possible inability as well as the indications of the measures taken to address the existing situation. The Committee finds in the report the long-term nature of the proceedings and the non-execution of the judgments but has not collected data on the fees paid on behalf of the long-term procedure. Any number of proposals submitted for payment on the basis of longevity as well as the reasons why it is stalled. Furthermore, it is not known whether measures have been proposed and given to judges who delay the proceedings here. A incomplete report in part of the work of local self-government is because it is not known in which cases and for which the requirements of the citizens of the local self-government unit have not been carried out without delay in order to ensure that the rights of citizens take place in as short a time as possible. In my view, it is necessary to clarify the concept of interference in matters of judgment, and to consider all the concepts in this area, to examine the groundwork to try to establish reasons of long-termity and to make proposals that would reduce the negative attitude of citizens towards the judicial authority and try to restore confidence in the functioning of the rule of law, as state rule of law. And the last chapter you've done is work and work relationships. The Committee did not display ways of violating labour rights in which rights are violated, the percentage of minority members in the same way, who predominate the authorities in breach of the rights, is merely indicated that there is chicaning and there is no date for the review of the actions taken in connection with the same. And to conclude the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party will support this Report but next we expect a new one with all these missing elements in this Report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40118	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Mato Biljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40119	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament submitted this Report on its work and certainly there is no investigative commission or body that can investigate more than we can hear in the Committee sessions. For the executive period, the Committee held 6 working sessions and in 2008 we received 483 written statements that pointed to long-term judicial and administrative proceedings, non-execution of the judgments of the Administrative Court by the administrative authorities, complaints of the pension fund and recovery of property. Building-communal jobs in 2008 received 95 complaints, and were related to illegal construction, lack of urban plans, decommissioning and reconstruction. Property relations in 2008 125 performances and related to the return of property, the problem of the inability to use its own apartment or household rights. The social-health problem, we received 153 concepts relating to health care and social care. The work of the courts and local administrations in 2008 received 87 presentations and complaints, the Committee only sent rushes there and did not discuss the validity or speed of decision-making. Our work on sessions was applied in a way to invite actors, and on the one hand, listened to both and the other, and then it was found in one good part that the simple complaint of citizens who had been addressed in some cases had not been established at all because if someone complained about the pension case at the height of the pension and one and the other was a member of the police in the war, one was in the special police department, one was in the civilian police, and it was certain that under the same conditions that they did not achieve the same amount of pay while they were members and they could not get or have the same number of staff in the same category, and certainly one and the other neighbours could not have had the same pension when two different subjects, 2 different people, and so it happened that someone who was in the Guard unit was disabled in the same category and someone who was in the "R" group or in the domobranian regiment or in the spare part that they were also not able to explain one of the legislation. When it comes to living-communal part, then we can say that we received complaints from citizens, neighbor to neighbor, where 30 years ago a house was built, common walls, common garages, common terraces where they drank coffee for 20 years, then after 20, 25 years the neighbor said, but now I'm not happy with the neighbor to tear down his garage because he doesn't have a building permit, and he can't even get it because this lacks consent. And a series of these things came to our committees. Like one of the defense groups that complained about the mayor, or the mayor, because they don't give them land just the ones that are by the sea to build a house but to offer them in other places, is what you think if in one place like Cavtat they gave them five defenders by the sea places to make what would happen to those thousands and thousands of defenders who would also ask tomorrow to build, although local administrations to these people gave an alternative solution and the possibility to build in some other positions, however, they were just looking here because they believe that 5, 6 can get them in this area. So there's a lot of things that we've been getting as committees in these 400 and some complaints that simply made us, in the debate itself, could have been concluded that they weren't founded, and I think that with everything that the board's been doing, and in most cases, it would have been unanimous that we weren't outwitting ourselves in decisions and closing words that we should pay more attention that certain complaints don't come to the board at all because there are complaints that have not passed certain levels of governance in the state, so we can't get involved with what the judge is going to say. We are not any committee to question a court, we can only say at that session, send a rush to see what's going to happen in that part, but here I can say with a good part of the complaints that were established that one large part of it has finally proved to be unfounded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40120	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40121	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, therefore, as a member of this committee, I can say what previous colleagues have said, and that is that we can certainly conclude, and because of how this commission exists, that our citizens have certain problems clearly in certain areas and contents, and that when they cannot resolve it either in time or therefore cannot solve their problem otherwise address this body of Parliament, of course expecting it to help, and this body can do one thing for me, and that is to determine whether human rights are injured in this regard and suggest that institutions are potentially speeding up. The issues we are mainly discussing have been listed by colleagues before, and these are housing and public affairs, property-legal relations, work, working relations, courts, local self-government and socio-health issues and problems. So it's about being able to speak freely in a lot of cases about what we can call daily problems that are why our citizens are talking to us. I'm not going to analyze like previous colleagues, each of these individual points and questions, but I would only argue that what I could notice is that in many cases it's a frustrating situation. However, according to what I compared with some indicators of other countries, the situation is the same in them and in them, so it is usually about what counterpart Dragovan or counterpart Bilnjic may have said to each other. What I could also notice, and I would like to point out here because I noticed none of the predecessors that pointed out that is that the representatives of the ministries that come on certain issues and powers in terms of explaining certain issues are competent to give interpretations in cases where they can give a final word, and that is definitely, and I think that this is very easy to confirm. Otherwise, as we could hear and see from this report during 2008 the number of cases was reduced to 483 written submissions. However, what was the number of calls or calls received, so the people admitted to the talks, we have no record. But I would say something, which is that during 2008, it was claimed from this figure that compared to the previous period, as shown by the 2004 data that the number of cases decreased greatly. So, the number of performances and complaints of citizens is shrinking very much. In 2004, there were 2 thousand 375 plays, of which a thousand 85 were written. And now we have all of them, let's just do it in 483 years, so we can say in the course of and for 4 years that it can still be said and say that the effectiveness of the legislation and the bodies that decide on issues and disputes and challenges, so between citizens were much more quality and effective compared to the previous period. So we can conclude and argue that citizens through this number of objects that we can see are much more satisfying than before, because that number of cases of complaints and performances would certainly be much greater. Of course, it should be said that problems and these issues cannot be resolved more quickly and efficiently. I think as a member of that committee, let's say, let's say, that all the colleagues there, that we, as board members, shouldn't use that membership in any way in order to go through 'let's say those questions that citizens give and ask muddy institutions or put ourselves open to one side. That's not good. Because in most cases as much as I could have noticed and as much as I was there, most of those cases and decisions we made were made unanimously, all the board members or with rare exceptions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40122	Thank you. And Mr. Agent Danes Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. I want to get involved in this debate with a few sentences and especially regarding this chapter of the work of courts and local self-government. Although a colleague, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club, pointed out a lot of what I wanted to say, so I'll just say a few sentences. There is one conclusion here that there are a number of concepts relating to the lengthening of court proceedings, and not the enforcement of judicial decisions. However, it is not indicated that it has not been elaborated in certain courts, or areas of the situation. I would like to warn and ask all those responsible for the trade courts, especially the High Court of Commerce. In fact, in these courts, especially at the High Commercial Court, certain cases are resolved for two, three, and even five and six years. I do not doubt at all the quality or intensity, or the size of the work being done there, but I consider that these institutions should be given some assistance and consider what conditions they are working on, how they are staffed and the other conditions. Because waiting 5.6 years for a single verdict, that is, the outcome of a particular dispute down on the ground depends on it both on the fate of people and the fate of economic operators, i.e. local communities, etc. On the one hand, we are talking about the fact that we have thousands and thousands of lawyers and extra employees in certain bodies at the level of the state and the Republic, so to speak, and on the other hand, citizens and other entities have been waiting three, four or five years to settle their disputes. I think that should be analysed and resolved, because it does so on the ground of a very, very big difficulty precisely related to the work of the High Court of Commerce. And I especially don't understand what the criteria are when it comes to urgency. I had the opportunity and personally intervened in one case, but it was estimated that by the criteria it did not fit the urgency, and it was not seen what was happening down on the ground. So I appeal to the responsible, competent ones to deal with these problems a little bit, to see if we can take a step in a positive way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40124	Thank you. Does the Proposer's representative want to conclude? Yeah. Mr. Igor Dragovan, chairman of the board. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40125	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me just have a few brief answers. Asking why some things aren't even more detailed and done. There is a Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament within the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and the Committee for the Presentations and Appeals of Citizens shall act, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and shall be carried out in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This is also the answer to the question about not tampering with court proceedings, etc. We've been sending out rushes and that's all we can do. It is our task to receive a presentation, to establish its foundation and to address our conclusion in a certain way to the competent ministry, institution and, through the annual report, to inform the Croatian Parliament of the work that we have done. The second thing, the number of performances. I have already said in the opening statement that we have also noticed the professional services of the board and we that over the past year so to speak, a large part of the performances are leaving, I will repeat in the cabinet of President-in-Office of the Vice-President, in certain committees that people think will solve their problems more quickly. I'll say openly that a lot of performances concerning spatial arrangements, plans, etc. He's going to the Space Editing Committee. Some ideas on problems end up on the Committee on Internal Policy. That's what we get later. Therefore, the number of performances is the one that came to the Committee on Representatives and Appeals of the Citizens. And I agree that maybe the report should describe certain things in more detail. I think it is good to put as many cases as possible in the written text of the report as possible for the simple reason that all together to warn us about the fact that human rights are being violated in Croatia, that citizens have problems with achieving their rights and that we all need to help change the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40126	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. 31. Report on the work of the 2008 Presentation and Appeals Committee. The applicant of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. "A report on the work of the 2008 Committee on Presentations and Appeals is accepted." Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This conclusion was accepted by most votes. 96 votes for, one abstention, nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40129	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Business 2008 for HAMAG will remain special since last year we were appointed as the main operational agency for the implementation of all projects, i.e. most of the projects from the operational programme to encourage small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, and in this way we have actually met that precondition of earlier guidelines of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and of certain bodies from the European Union for the establishment of a single place from which support for a small economy will be implemented. By uniting support in a small economy along with a number of other activities that we are carrying out by the Croatian Small Economy Agency as the name only says unequivocally becomes the central place from which all business will be focused on developing small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. I must also point out that for the first time last year, one transparency was introduced with the support given that all the support was made public on the pages of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. A unique software was introduced by which we also provide support and support that the ministry still implements on joint software is implemented so that they are actually very operational and I would say within a satisfactory time frame we can solve all the support in a transparent manner. Last year, HAMAG approved some more than 96 million kuna support for a small economy, out of which to boost the competitiveness of 71.5 million kuna, for women and target groups 7.3 million, for the cooperative entrepreneurship of 2.5 million kuna, for the development of craftsmanship of 4.2 million kuna and for the entrepreneurial support institutions of 6.4 million kuna. Here I would particularly stress the important role of HAMAG in the development of entrepreneurship infrastructure because by developing regional development agencies and entrepreneurship centres we are actually enabling a more balanced development of the economy throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which is actually very important especially for beginners. To this project of entrepreneurship development, the development of supporting institutions is linked to our second project, which is a network of certified consultants for a small economy. This project is implemented through two measures. The first measure is the education and certification of these consultants and the second measure is the co-financing of their services so that in the last year, out of 85 of our consultants their services were financed in the amount of 770,000 kuna. As for the business of guarantees here, we can literally divide the business year into two parts. The first part was very dynamic and we had almost 40% more dynamic than the year before, I would even dare say by the 9th month. Then, for all known reasons, slow lending occurred, loans became more difficult to access, and thus the dynamics of issuing our guarantees were somewhat reduced. However, we ended the year with 180 guarantees issued worth 198 million kuna, which is 25% higher than the year before. We have provided these guarantees with 416 million kunas of corporate loans and 714 million investments in the economy. The average interest rate on loans financed by entrepreneurship was 5.07%, the average loan amount of 2.3 million kuna and the average guarantee amount of 1.1 million kuna. I would especially stress here a 37% increase in the average investment of nearly 4 million kuna. The most approved guarantees were expected by agriculture programmes, by growth and development programmes, and I particularly highlight a number of new entrepreneurs' projects. After the counties we issued the most in Vukovar-Srijem and Osijek-Baranja County, then in Split-Dalmatia County. Of the banks we worked most naturally with HABOR and of the commercial banks we worked most with Zagrebačka banka, Croatia banka and Slatinski banka. In 2008, we paid a total of $1.6 million for activated guarantees while charging 1.3 million in the same period. The total value of all the guarantees protested on 31.12.2008 was 2.08%. In particular, I would like to point out that in December of last year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia granted us an increase in guarantee potential from 500 million to billions of kuna so that it actually gave us even more space for our work. Last year, HAMAG also participated in a number of international projects such as PHARE 2005 pre-accession funds, PHARE 2006, CARDS 2004 and the Swedish Institute Support Fund, the development of the institutions of the Republic of Croatia. I would also point out from other activities the organisation of a conference on Croatia's entry into NATO alliances and the opportunities it offers to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, which later resulted in the opening of an information point in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce where entrepreneurs can be informed of the possibility of participating in NATO competitions. We have completed a year with 38 employees of whom 76% are highly educated and I would like to point out in particular here that all this work has been done strictly taking care of cost rationalization, so with this number of employees, we have managed to cut a lot of costs in half. So short on the report. I'm at your disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40130	Thank you very much. Do you want a representative of the government? No, I don't. Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Chairman of the Committee on Economy, Mr Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the honorable representatives of the ministry, the secretary of state and the director of HAMAG. The Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament at the 29th session held on 24 September 2009 discussed the Report on the business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency for 2008. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed this report as a parent working body. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the fourth year in a row, HAMAG recorded business growth in its core activities, which are the issue of guarantees for entrepreneurial loans, grant of grants, the development of entrepreneurship infrastructure and co-financing of consulting services. During 2008, a total of 180 guarantees were issued, i.e. 85% of total applications received amounting to 198.5 million kuna, allowing about 714 million kuna to be invested in the economy in 2008. This is a 25.72% increase in guarantees issued compared to 2007. HAMAG also continued training and certification of small-scale consultants in 2008 in order to improve the quality and quantity of business counselling services of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, so that the network of certified consultants numbers a total of 85 members operating in 17 counties. The guarantee potential of the agency, which determines the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which we consider extremely important, was increased by 500 million kuna and amounted to one billion kuna at the end of December 2000. The debate clarifies that, in line with the European model, the division of competences between the resolution ministry and the agency, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, the Strategy and operational programmes for the development of entrepreneurship, and that HAMAG implements them, in particular, which means that HAMAG conducts all competitions to support entrepreneurship previously implemented by the ministry. It is important that HAMAG implements incentive programmes and other ministries, other than the Ministry of Agriculture, which are related to entrepreneurship, which would enable the centralisation of data and records and better insight into the support granted and structure of the user support entrepreneurs, and would also facilitate the supervision of the limits of the aid used. In order to establish a record of the aid granted, in particular for periods during which it has not been set up, each entrepreneur must fill in a statement showing how much support he has received in the past period. The debate also noted that at a time of crisis and recession, in particular an increase in the price of capital and restrictions on credit ratings, roles and HAMAG and HBOR are of particular importance for the development of the economy and that there is a need to continue to work on strengthening both their work and their next budget to provide adequate resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40132	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40133	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the 2008 HAMAG Report. It is safe when we talk about support for the Croatian economy, especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Croatian Small Economy Agency means they belong to one of the most important roles. These institutions have become the key logistics of government support measures for entrepreneurship. The Croatian economy is in crisis and exiting the crisis is certain that there will be no result of any one-time measures or one-time budgetary interventions, but that it is indeed a long-term road to systematic and long-term investment in entrepreneurship and the removal of all obstacles to its development, from bureaucracy, corruption, various local self-government, resistance, etc. But when we look at the crisis for sure what is a bigger problem for us, and that's why getting out of the crisis won't be quick or simple is the fact that the crisis of potential has thrown out on the surface of structural problems, the problems that have arisen for years, we can say for two whole decades, from that socialist legacy through transition to the huge war-related sufferings and damages. These problems are in one of the, potential of one of the biggest problems of the Croatian economy, which is the relationship between those working and those living on the state budget. Today in Croatia, every worker in the economy must earn at least two salaries or one salary and one pension, so the relationship between those who directly create a new value and those whose income is financed from the budget is 1:1. In order to solve this structural problem, it is something that we will have to deal with in the long term, because the problem behind this truly worrying statistics is the fact that the Croatian economy currently does not have enough absorption capacity. Or more simply, even if we were to reduce the number of pensioners and if we rationalise public enterprises and state administration and fire a certain number of employees, so if we wanted to change that ratio in the short term in favour of those who work and earn on the market, it would simply not be possible to do so quickly, in the short term. And that is why it is also important today when we are discussing a Croatian small economy agency to understand both the role and importance of such government institutions, agencies in strengthening entrepreneurship and in creating new jobs, so just as one of the key contributions to increasing this absorption capacity of the Croatian economy. It is therefore important to give and support to this institution, as we also did to the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and to ensure that its role is strengthened and through greater resources and through greater independence in the creation of different programmes designed for our entrepreneurs. As we can see from HAMAG data from year to year, its activity has increased since the issuance of guarantees for entrepreneurial loans, grant of grants, development of entrepreneurship infrastructure, co-financing of consulting services, and as seen from data for 2008 is an increase of around 25% compared to 2007. It is clear that, especially since September 2008, there has been a significant increase in the interest of commercial banks, which has certainly slowed down some business activities and ventures. What is also a major and significant change in HAMAG's business is the fact that last year HAMAG became the main operational support agency for small and medium-sized enterprises. This is in line with the government's policy to pay off the support from one place, not to have duplication or fraud, to have them recorded and that the agency best directed state support towards entrepreneurs based on experience. The Croatian Democratic Communities Club particularly supports the fact that the support system for those leaving HAMAG has become maximum transparency, that all these support has been granted on the HAMAG web site and that all users and the public have maximum insight into how much support they have been granted, whether there have been duplications, whether restrictions have been used, etc. The experiences of other countries speak of the importance of such agencies for the overall economy and should therefore seek greater independence from the agency. It should not be disturbed, however, that the Agency will, in the future, become a key point for the running and realisation of the EU Structural Funds projects after the European Commission passes domestic and accreditation. For us, these are extremely important funds and funds, because this will no longer be just Union aid, but also the ability of our participation and withdrawal of common funds, which means that we as a future Member State of the European Union will also be paying in. Almost 99% of economic operators in the Republic of Croatia are potential users of HAMAG services. That is why the HDZ Club gives full support to its development. In particular, the importance of developing a network of consultants should be highlighted. It should not be disturbed, however, that this population of entrepreneurs is particularly small who are quoting HAMAG, according to HBOR for small business projects, that they are not often sufficiently trained, nor able to produce very demanding documentation based on an assessment of economic justification and that it is therefore important to provide them with logistics on the ground. We have seen from the report that it has been trained, or certified 85 consultants, that these trained consultants are now operating in 17 counties and that also their services, means all they can provide to small entrepreneurs that HAMAG is co-financed in 50 percent amount, which is also clearly a great help. Also, these small entrepreneurs are no longer exposed to the market where there have been very often exaggerations in the design of these projects and very expensive collection of services to build documentation for submission of applications. In particular, the role of HAMAG in the implementation of entrepreneurial projects in agriculture, i.e. the implementation of operational programmes from the rise of permanent crops to the construction of livestock farms where the role of HAMAG and HBOR was, in fact, crucial, crucial, because it is projects in the countryside where the value of real estate is small and where it is very small, where without the guarantees of HAMAG these projects could not be realised. In view of all the above, the Croatian Democratic Community, i.e. our club supports the 2008 HAMAG Report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40134	Thank you. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40135	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the respected representatives of the Small Economy Agency, the distinguished gentlemen of the House of Representatives. The IDS Club will also support this report. What may have bothered me a little bit, I think it is unnecessary and this letter from the chairman of the administration of Mr Tomislav Kovacevic. I don't think that needs to be justified to anyone why. There is nothing to write but to display numbers as it was done in this material in the text below. This report shows that 95 million kunas of various loans were distributed in 2008. It's a circus somewhere means about 13 million euros. It is about a kilometer of highway in the Republic of Croatia. That's how much it costs about one mile of highway. Make it two kilometers of Istrian ipilon that isn't even built in full profile, or let's say that's zero miles of road from Zagreb to Sisak. You've divided 95 million kuna loans, and now here we see what the agency's cost is 9.8 million kuna for 38 employees. That's the point. Absolutely this agency is not its own purpose and it needs to be fair and it should be acknowledged, but I also think this machine 38 overpriced employees. But what's good. In late December 2008, the government increased the guarantee capital to 1 billion kuna. On page 5 of this report, there was a presentation of the requests received, and then it was said that for agriculture we had 87 requests that sought 231 million kuna for growth and development of 40,238 million kuna. Then a small entrepreneur, trade capital, new technology entrepreneur in the zone, planned investment totalling 778 million kuna. On page 6, it is said that by observing the structure of the number of applications received according to certain counties, the largest number of guarantee applications arrived from Osijek-Baranja County 31, followed by Vukovar-Srijem County, Split-Dalmatia, Sibenik-Kninska, Sisak-Moslavina, Virovitica, Podravska etc. From the County of Istria, only one request came to an amount of 1.5 million kuna. So we weren't looking anymore. We couldn't even get any more. Only if it doesn't take some special procedure to get into that number in the first place. However, what is certainly a central part of this report is these approved guarantees. It is said here that during 2008, a total of 181 guarantees were granted, 85% of the applications received amounting to 198.4 million kuna, allowing 714 million kuna investment in the economy, compared to 2007 the total amount of the guarantees granted in 2008 was increased by 25.72%. The average guarantee level in 2008 was one million and 100 thousand kuna, the average individual loan was 2.3 million kuna, while the average of planned investments increased by 37% and amounted to 3.9 million kuna in 2008. I said this must be the best part of this report. On the 12th part, the implementation of the competitiveness project means strengthening the competitiveness of the small economy, entrepreneurship of women civil groups, cooperative entrepreneurship, development of craftsmanship, entrepreneurial support institutions etc., etc. Recently, the World Bank's famous report on competitiveness has arrived in the Republic of Croatia, so that competitiveness cannot be a better witness, that is, this affair in Podravka. It's only necessary to mention that at the head of that competitive body is Mr. Marine, who himself has found himself in a questionable situation. It is clear that Croatia must certainly be frustrated with this report. At the level of global competitiveness, Croatia is now 72nd among the 133 countries that the World Bank has monitored, from the mass, we can comfort ourselves worse in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Montenegro is, it should be mentioned, much better. Is it unrealistic, is it, why we are so, we are super bureaucratic, we are slow, we are corrupt, in Croatia they are all against everything, in Croatia so to say almost can't realize any project, either because of us from the opposition, whether because of you from the government, whether because of the media, I don't know, no job can be done and then there's a question of who we're to blame. Is that why it's only the government? It's not. I say, in 50% of the cases, yes, in 50% of the cases. These other 50% responsibilities should certainly be shared with our tycoons. What's good about this World Bank report? First of all, it is macroeconomic stability, for which it guarantees indirect state, i.e. CNB, bank, National Bank, then health care, preparedness of infrastructure. That's where you think about roads, that's where you think about telecommunications, etc. And what's wrong? The quality of the financial market, which is what our banks are responsible for. Then business sophistication. That's what our companies are responsible for, so tycoons. The quality of the institution, come on, it's the state's fault. The labour market, that's what we're all responsible for. The goods market, that's where the companies are wrong. So the state of competition at this point is equally responsible for both state and bank, i.e. tycoons, one third, one third, one third or half. It is also something that should be clearly unequivocally made clear when it is already spoken of on whose side the responsibility is. Page 23, you're talking about craft tradition. I would really be delighted if someone were to deal with this very small craftsmanship, precisely those people who may in some way be the most vital part of the Croatian economy. Today, unfortunately, these little craftsmen may be in a worse situation and from the workers themselves who work with them, they must guarantee their entire assets, the worker guarantees their work. I absolutely agree there should be a crime, no payout, but what if, for example, someone owes that little craftsman, doesn't need much, 200, 300 thousand kunas in one or a year or a half or two days, then he could survive, he has to sell out his entire grandfatherland to simply pay his obligations, either towards the state, or towards his employees, or according to his co-operatives, etc. I also assure you that at this point there is probably no, under quotes, more ungrateful business or activity than, or opportunity, in which, in that economy, but rather these opportunities affecting these small employers, and our small craftsmen, small entrepreneurs, etc., etc. They weren't involved in the conversion, these people clearly from this state didn't get anything. The tycoons got hotels, they got clear factories, the banks were trying to privatize, and the little craftsman didn't even get a social apartment because he didn't have a right, he couldn't get to it. And I also believe that the state should be far more flexible with that category of citizens. In this report of the Small Economy Agency for 2008, we are actually dealing, under quotes, with banal demands, perhaps some thousand requests, that for loans, which for guarantees is all reaching 100 million kunas of direct loans and some 700 million kunas of guarantees. Let's say what size these are. For example. One Pevec is in a $2.6 billion dubiosis. If he's going to get away with it, I don't know, but I do know that he should definitely be helped to save his gravitators. The Agrokor, for example, has short-term liabilities from the 12 billion kuna circus at the moment. Of course it will solve it with a reprogramme, because in the opposite collapse of shipbuilding she will be a sweet mother according to what would have happened to this country, God forbid Agrokora goes wrong. Next year of 6 shipyards I'm afraid 3 will end up in bankruptcy, by 2012, maybe all of them. I don't care about "Olinik" for either 2010, or for 2011, but by 2012, I doubt any of our shipyards will conclude any contract on the construction of a new ship. The Prime Minister texted us here yesterday, I'm sorry, but we can't follow it anymore. And I say hello, Madam President, to whom the shipbuilding employees will lose their jobs next year, at least 5 grand in the shipbuilding industry, 5 grand among the cooperatives at least, means to whom they will tell, I have no electricity, I have no bread, I have no water, I have nothing to pay for a child from home to school. In 2010, it will be a difficult year, for two years I have been saying that we will see the bottom of the bottom in the first half of 2010 and I am asking the representatives of this agency, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to find adequate means to help this small one to tell the man, the small craftsman, that small employer, because at this moment they are the most vital part of this society, and it may happen to us that precisely because of their failure to pay them, they all end up "in one domestic bankruptcy" or bankruptcy. We lost in the year that we have a whole series of textile branches, wood growers, we've lost a good part of the metal industry, I'm afraid now we're going to lose a good part of the shipbuilding, and why I'm saying that. Because by breaking up these big systems, then the little ones, first of all, these little employers, the little craftsmen, I don't know what I'm gonna call them. When we were out there in Buzet, 96, 97, fighting for the survival of Cimos, today the company has about 1100 workers, 70, 80 million dollars of exports together with Labina, in a mixed Croatian-Slovenian ownership that should be emphasized, I often went to the late President Drnovsek, who was saying we will not save Cimos in Slovenia where it worked for 1500 to 2000 people only because of those 1500 to 2000 people but we employ them because of these small cooperatives who employ over 2,000 people because then the failure of one system is not only the loss of 1500 or 2,000 people, but 4 or 5 thousand people. So I'm really asking the government, this agency to think about what we're going to do, let's get back to shipbuilding, not just 11,000 employees in that shipbuilding, but about 20 and a few thousand workers in the cooperatives and those co-operatives themselves. On the side that some of the Croatian shipbuilding has become very rich, so we have paradoxes to buy out or offer to buy out all the shipyards in which they did some marginal work. Only immature people and I dare say they did not realize that the shipbuilding will not be solved by foreigners, they will not, of course not, what we had in the first competition was a scavenger over a corpse called Croatia Shipbuilding. Shipbuilding will either save itself or we won't have it anymore. And to end anyway, it's clear that Club IDS supports this report, 700 million kunas or 400 won't matter now, millions of guarantees I think it's relatively small, insufficient and should urgently find more significant resources for the Agency's work. I can congratulate you on everything else, but once again how much money there is so much music, and to encourage a small economy in this country should be found far more money because the time ahead will be no easier than what is behind us.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40136	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40137	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Namely, I would like to correct the inaccuracies of my colleague Kajin, who spoke of the competitiveness of the Croatian economy as saying that in Croatia almost no business project can be realised, I think that not only is it not suitable today when we are discussing HAMAG because you just recently congratulated the head of the agency on the job, namely, we have problems with competitiveness and the price of capital, but this information should also be taken into account that last year 180 guarantees have been issued in the amount of 200 million kuna, which allows investment in the economy of 714 million kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40138	The club of representatives of HSS Mr. Representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40139	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Small Economy Agency is a state agency aimed at encouraging the development of a small economy and increasing its share in the overall economy of the Republic of Croatia. Through the development of efficient support infrastructure at national regional and local level. Creating an incentive environment, enabling the use of support based on the needs shown in funding. Application, technology development, quality improvement, increased competitiveness of market insurance and new employment, and through integration, cooperation and networking of institution entrepreneurs and support. The report before us shows that HAMAG has contributed to strengthening and developing entrepreneurship especially through guarantees for business loans where agriculture is the most represented guarantee programme. And the most requirements come from Osijek-Baranja County, then Vukovar-Srijemska, Zagreb, etc. Interestingly, as much as 61.7 million kunas were placed in Zadar County. The report also noted that small and medium-sized enterprises are extremely interested in projects of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship through which support is granted to entrepreneurs in total amounting to more than 96 million kuna. There is particularly interesting information that a significant amount of resources available has been invested in encouraging women and target groups entrepreneurship. Of over $11.5 million. The most money spent on strengthening the competitiveness of the small economy is as much as 71.5 million kuna, and the maximum amount of appropriations is for the City of Zagreb and Zagreb County according to the largest economic potential of the region. We believe that it would be useful to focus attention on those areas of the Republic of Croatia where there is an entrepreneurial spirit and an interest in investment but perhaps no conditions have been created for more significant progress of entrepreneurship, for example, I will list Lika-Senj County. I believe that HAMAG's increased activities in the less developed and less populated areas of the Republic of Croatia could significantly contribute to a more balanced economic development of a particular region, and no doubt with the development of the economy, it would make quick progress in quality of life and create assumptions for retention, as well as an increase in population in such areas. In HSS, we look forward to the fact that traditional crafts continue to be held in the Republic of Croatia, indicating that tradition has a respectable place in the life of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. However, we also believe that the grants of about 10 thousand kuna on average are too little incentive for more significant development or for facilitating the implementation of traditional crafts activities. Although the data presented in this Report are encouraging entrepreneurship, much more funding should be invested and we should all have little and more confidence in our entrepreneurs together. A lot of demands have been rejected, and the question arises is whether we may not be too hard on small entrepreneurs and craftsmen who feed themselves, their families and families of their employees who are the most significant holders of the economic development of the Republic of Croatia with their own work and skills. The HSS will support the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40140	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40141	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, President of Hamag Administration, colleagues and colleagues. We have already heard a lot in the report on the business of the Croatian small economy agency in 2008, about a whole series of activities, but here in my debate I will highlight what is most important and try to comment on them. When we talk about the first activity, these are guarantees to entrepreneurs for different business loans, so we see that one trend is the increased number of guarantees in 2008 so the agency approved 180 guarantees or a quarter more, 25% more than the previous year. The most approved guarantees are in the area of agriculture then the growth and development programme, the "New Entrepreneur" programme and areas of particular state interest. After the county watching first place was Osijek-Baranja County then Vukovar-Srijemska etc. It is also important for 2008 to point out that the guarantee potential of the agency is increased by 500 million kuna and is 1 billion. Personally, I think it was necessary to do so in such a difficult economic year and situation and to seek an even greater guarantee potential in the coming years for the further development of natural entrepreneurship. When looking at support activities, it should be pointed out that "HAMAG" has become the main operational agency for the implementation of projects from the operational plan for the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises and thus has provided the preconditions for the achievement of the Government of Croatia's guidelines on the existence of a central place to provide support to small and medium-sized enterprises. Thanks to the numerous activities it is carrying out and which are aimed precisely at developing and strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises, HAMAG is undoubtedly becoming a unique place to support the small economy. A total of 4 000 641 requests amounting to almost 100 million kuna support have been granted. There is also a need to highlight the development of a network of consultants here, so it is evident from the last year's report that the 'Hamag' network counts a total of 85 consultants for a small economy. Of course, the activity and participation of the 'HAMAG' in international projects financed by the European Union and other funds through the 'PHARE' in 2005, 2006, the 'CARDS' and the Swedish Fund for the Support of the institutions of the Republic of Croatia are important and is expected to play a greater role in pre-accession and accession funds in the future. Finally, I would like to express my satisfaction with these reports and the activities of "HAMAG" in 2008, especially because of the growing number of approved guarantees in entrepreneurship loans, and yet especially in areas of special state concern where the development of economy and entrepreneurship is still a far greater challenge than in other areas of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to express my satisfaction with the open and more quality co-operation of the "HAMAG" team with local self-government units as well as with supporting institutions leading to the development of entrepreneurship on the ground throughout Croatia. The members of the "Hamag" and not even the president of the administration himself, Mr Kovacevic, are difficult to get on the ground, which I can also testify as mayor of the town of Pakrac, I believe other colleagues here who are actively working in units of local self-government. In a city where a whole series of activities are being undertaken in the development of entrepreneurship, in which one of the best entrepreneurship centres in Croatia, the Pakrac entrepreneurship centre and which is witnessing just such excellent cooperation with the "HAMAG" and, of course, the Ministry of Economy. Cooperation and activities in the implementation of the operational plan for the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises between supporting institutions throughout Croatia, units of local self-government, Croatian small economy agency, Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Ministry of Economy, and all with the support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is the key to further development of the economy and to the early exit of the Croatian economy from the crisis that has affected not only us but the whole world. For all the above, of course, I'm going to accept this report and wish 'HAMAG' even more successfully implemented programs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40142	Thank you. Final review. President of the Board, Mr Tomislav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40143	Thank you very much, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my final presentation, I'm only going to point out a few things. Here I am for the fifth year in a row, defending reports, and you who were and in the last term were going to remember that report I defended, actually for a year earlier when I didn't work in this place and you can easily compare all those reports and business. You'll see that our growth path was extremely high, if we show it graphically believe that this graph is very steep. From that small agency that barely issued several guarantees a year we today except that we have significantly increased our bonding business with more than 20 banks in the Republic of Croatia. We became, as I said in the first presentation, the central place for the implementation of the support, i.e. the programme from the operational plan. So, we are developing and entrepreneurship infrastructure, we have established a department that when we enter the European Union will implement structural funds and we have become in the right sense the central place for a small economy. Something else important to stress about our business that in Croatia about 2,000 and 600 companies have introduced "ISO quality system" and "HAMAG" is one of these from this year on, I would say, a company or an institution. So since this year, Hamag has introduced the "ISO quality system" and since the new year, we have been introducing a system of measurement of working efficiency so that we are indeed going to be a modern institution. As for the funds we place in a small economy, I would also like it to be possible that they are bigger, but believe me, despite this economic situation, these funds are growing every year. And last year we had over 10,000 applications, and this year we have over 10,000 applications including applications being made at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. I believe that when you adopt the budget, it will be possible for those funds to stay at the same level for the next year at least, and if possible, they will increase. I thank all the clubs that supported this report, I thank the Ministry of Economy which has been behind us all this time and has made it possible for us to grow up, I thank the Croatian government which has recognised, also left the projects that we have implemented and on behalf of it. And I believe that this year, too, will be able to display proudly all of the results that we will achieve next year, which will be significantly better even than this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40144	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40145	Thirty-two. Report on the business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency for 2008. Carrier of the Croatian Small Economy Agency. I'm voting on the next conclusion. "In line with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am giving the vote the conclusion. Report on the business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency 2008 is hereby accepted. a year." Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by most votes, 92 votes for, two abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40146	We are going to the next item - Report on the promotion of awareness of women and men's equality in HR and HTV programmes, and on HRT ( 2008-2009 period) Proposer of the Programme Council of Croatian Radio-Television. The Croatian Radio-Television Programme Council submitted this report on the basis of the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament adopted on the occasion of the adoption of the Report on the work of the Croatian Radio-Television Council and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by law in Croatian Radio and Croatian Television programmes between 3 September 2007 and 14 October 2008. The government delivered an opinion. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Gender Equality, Information and Information and Media and Work and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. A representative of the proposing president of the HRT Programme Council, Djuro Popijac will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40147	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is a brief, therefore, report on the promotion of awareness of women and men's equality. So, all your working bodies, your committees this council has already presented and you've had a chance to see written material. From the presented data on women and men's representation within Croatian radio and in leading positions, and this mainly refers to editorial positions, a satisfactory situation can be established. The same does not apply to women's representation in top management and the council expressed dissatisfaction in the report. The Council also recommended the directorship of the HRT to carry out an independent analysis of gender sensitivity and organisational climate on HRT during 2009 and 2010, respectively. When it comes to HRT software content, the scope of specific topics on gender equality has generally been assessed as satisfying by the Council. However, greater gender sensitivity of editors and editors of information-political and economic emissions is necessary. The HRT Council proposed that gender equality should also be taken into account in the selection of guests and guests, in order to present more frequently to the public the opinions of gender-aware experts and particularly experts in different areas. When, in cooperation with academic community experts, civil society organisations and state institutions, a targeted education of editors and editors on the integration of gender equality issues into editorial journalistic work is carried out as part of the newly established Croatian Education Centre and in cooperation with academic community experts. I wouldn't be too long. The Council delivered this report and we will be at our disposal to accept and establish all your remarks and try to further promote and implement them through the work of the council and according to those responsible on Croatian Radio-Television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40148	Thank you. Committee on Gender Equality, chairman of the committee of Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40149	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, the representatives of the proposer. At the 23rd session held on 7 July 2009, the Committee on Gender Equality discussed the report in question. The Croatian Parliament, by accepting the report on the work of the HRT Council and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations set out in the Law on Croatian Radio and HTV programmes during the period from 3 September to 14 October 2008, was obliged by the Croatian Council to make a commitment by the end of March 2009 at the latest. The Croatian Parliament shall submit an additional report on the application of the Law on Gender Equality in programme content, orientations and self-regulatory acts promoting the awareness of women and men's equality. The Government of the Republic of Croatia gave a written report showing that the area of gender equality was not adequately represented on Croatian Radio and Croatian TV in the form of targeted emissions or contributions that would be broadcast regularly. It is also considered necessary to take care of the selection of advertising, as it is often shown ads that encourage socially unacceptable behaviour towards women. Introductoryly, his vice president spoke on behalf of the Programme Council. The report also brings data on women and men's representation in the structure of employees, suggests the need for greater gender sensitivity between editors and editors of information and economic emissions, as well as the need to conduct more gender equality accounts in the selection of guests. A significant proposal from the Council to conduct a targeted education of editors and editors on the integration of gender equality issues with editorial and journalistic work as part of the newly established HRT Education Centre. In the debate on behalf of the Gender Equality Office, the public broadcasters were further stressed in promoting gender equality, as fundamental human rights and as constitutional values. There is a grudge that about such an important topic as the adoption you remember the new Law on Gender Equality, which was adopted almost by consensus in the Croatian Parliament, has not been reported at all on Croatian television. A positive assessment is given in free video terms for campaigns to increase women's political equality "Let's Balance". The debate made comments on how to write and how to write a report, i.e. a tax-listing of emissions that allegedly contribute to the promotion of gender equality, which is in certain parts of stereotypan. It is pointed out that Croatian radio-television is expected to remove stereotypes, and to educate about gender equality, not just convenient reporting related to the marking of significant dates. Some members of the committee consider the report insufficient, and warn that there is a uncertainty that should actually be pictured through it. It also disagreed with the report's claim that the most important ratio of employees of women and men, which should then affect the sensitivity of relations with gender differences. It is also noted that the report on gender equality is not used in natively sensitive languages. Furthermore, it has been warned that parliamentary MPs with disabilities have something to say about other more important political and economic issues, and they are called on to host on shows only when it comes to the problem of people with disabilities. The lawyer for gender equality warned that a ban on gender-based discrimination and ban on gender-based censorship cannot be identified by promoting the development of awareness of gender equality. The director-in-chief of the HRT explained that for this report the editorials submitted the contributions which were then mechanically pooled into one material. He expressed his conviction that the next report would be more complete, more concrete and better. He also expressed his initiative to co-operate with those bodies responsible for monitoring the implementation of gender equality policy. A representative of the Programme Council warned that the council could not legally influence the programme but simply react or call for responsibility. He also explained that some of the criticisms put forward by the Croatian Directorate rather than the Council. He concluded that all proposals, criticisms, suggestions and remarks will serve the programme council when preparing the programme's orientation for next year. Following the debate, members and members of the committee unanimously propose the following conclusions to the Croatian Parliament. First, the Report on the promotion of awareness of women and men's equality in Croatian Radio and Croatian Television programmes in 2008 and 2009. Secondly, it is up to the HRT Programme Council to submit a special report on the promotion of gender awareness in accordance with the observations and proposals made in the debate when submitting regular annual reports to the Croatian Assembly on the work and implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40150	Thank you. The Committee on Information, Information and Media? The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership? I'm opening a debate. SDP Representatives' Club Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40151	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The report we have ahead of us is the result of the conclusion that the Committee on Gender Equality had at one of its sessions and then it became a conclusion, the Croatian Parliament therefore adopted this as its conclusion. First of all, it is a general remark that is connected to this report, which is that it is difficult without the collection of a data analysis which unfortunately here in the Assembly we cannot serve in this way. It is difficult to bring quality evaluations of the information given in the report and in which the principles of the type were often used were reported regularly, almost all of the information programme's emissions were addressed by journalists, among other things, to the issue of gender equality and similar references. So, on the basis of such very generalized, general writings of this report, it was actually difficult to determine how much such a provision actually was, therefore, regularly reporting what it really meant. However, in the opening part of the report, the basic regulatory documents on gender equality issues, hence the Croatian Law on Gender Equality, the Law on Gender Equality, the Regulation on the Protection of Gender Equality, and the basis of the internal statistics presented, determines that Croatian Radio Television in Employment Policy is responsible for gender equality and is particularly stressed that for this report, I quote, the most important ratio of employees of women and men in Croatian Radio and HTV programmes is likely to affect the sensitivity of relations to sexual differences, since it has, as you can see from the reports of several women. And basically this is a completely false assumption that nothing is actually directly reflected in the software content because if this logic were really followed as stated in the report, then the programme would be around 20% or 30% more sensible than the question of gender equality and, of course, unfortunately not. The Council of Croatian Radio Television, however, expressed dissatisfaction with the fact that only one woman of the total number of members of the Directorate, the director of the programme, the editors-in-chief of the information programmes and eight of them appointed the council, so there is only one woman and, in fact, it is and in fact a real ratio of what is reflected in the programme content, although unfortunately the entire report is dedicated to proving the exact opposite. In the presentation of the Croatian Radio Programme after the introduction claim that special attention is paid to gender equality principles and the promotion of actions that sensitize the public for this problem, there are some emissions that, in one way or another, according to the author's opinion, have dealt with the subject of gender equality from which it is actually evident that during the year, there are very little of these emissions, mainly to follow or report on what they are doing in a work of an NGO such as the Civil Voice, something little that is done by a lawyer for gender equality or some other institution mainly through an information programme, which is of course good. However, it is entirely insufficient to work to promote gender equality, and this is much more complex than the controversial reporting of certain meetings or events related to the subject, although it should be said in the end, it is very confident that the Croatian Radio has systematically led and taken care of all aspects of gender equality with thematicisation of current issues in this area and that nothing has been confirmed in this report. The HTV programme is being discussed below, and regarding the information programme, it is in principle found that, I quote, almost all of the news programme's emissions were addressed by journalists, among other things, to the issue of gender equality. We would say quite a bold claim that remains unsupported in the text below because examples of 13 shows of the journal are listed and we know that the Central Information Emission is going on every day and that means 365 days a year. These include certain reports of events related to certain gender equality elements through reports or conversations in certain information programme emissions. Although it seems at first glance that the material needs to be kept in mind that this report is for a year and that in the more viewing shows the topic is processed they would say very scarcely. For example, in "Croatian Live" during this period, which is broadcast every working day only a dozen times and on "Open" only once. Other programmes and programmes are listed, in the rapporteur's view, on the issue of gender equality, from which it is actually still evident that there is a weak saying no understanding of the real sense of the term for promoting gender equality because if a particular show deals with a so-called "species". Women's theme, for example, wedding customs in the cultural programme, or is broadcast a certain film with a female main character, as the "hot woman", "Dangerous Minds", etc., or is said to be quoted as "life and typically female problems, except for very watched telenovelas, please also have been dealt with by the series "Gilmoreica", "Sisters", "Ugly Betty" and the like", then it is clear that in programmes or through these thoughts it is about further reproduction of stereotypes, about what women are, and what men's topics and what actually women love or care about without real understanding of the implications that such stereotype programs have in the context of retaining the existing situation on the plan of existing inequality. It is interesting that the report as a particularly positive example in the frameworks of the entertainment programme lists the show "Good Morning Croatia", as I quote: "very often they address gender equality topics". On the other hand, let us look at the 2008 prosecutor's report on gender equality, the part dealing with gender analysis and the same show that was followed by the Advocate's Office over four weeks. Of the 603 topics, 11 or 2% of them were found to be really relevant areas related to gender equality, as defined both in the law and in the national policy for the promotion of gender equality. A special story is a segment that deals with the presentation of the programme for children and youth because, for example, it is said, in almost all shows of the programme for children and youth, although it is about different topics, it is treated, please write literally, tolerance for all human rights involving gender equality. This sentence shows an absolute misunderstanding, including the termology itself, because otherwise, a phrase of tolerance would not be used for all human rights when we know that human rights are primarily an internationally clearly defined category, separated from the concept of tolerance and non-discrimination that covers something different area. In addition, if you look at this part of the text, it is clear that the rapporteur would first and foremost point out that the above-mentioned programme includes both genders and even the selection of emission leaders. Noting that gender equality primarily refers to the socio-Horizono-political position of women, i.e. their actual inequality and sub-representation. In conclusion, I would say that despite some positive elements that are reflected above all in a somewhat broader recognition of certain gender-sensitised topics, but still with a wave from the family, health, domestic violence, education and some political participations related to the elections, as well as more frequent coverage of gender-related events and in relatively good statistics that we have related to the structure of HRT employees, although those in that management segment remain particularly harmful to women. And so there remains that basic impression and belief that the rapporteur is still unaware of the complexity and importance of the subject. The promotion of gender equality, gender equality issues on public television, which, even in Croatia, means, above all, promoting women's equality has an exceptional importance in sensitizing the public about the truly equal role of men and women in society. The promotion can be done directly through the more frequent broadcast of programs directly dealing with this problem, but also indirectly as it means avoiding stereotypes about the role and image and position of women in society, and this seems to be still very difficult. The fact that the reproduction of stereotypes is significant and how often and unconsciously it affects the formation of a picture of women or of a social or political problem that applies to women also warns many international documents and this occasion should be mentioned. For example, if we take this report alone, it is not enough just to list emissions and programs that deal with or deal with women in general. It is important to understand that many of these programs and shows continue to support certain negative or neutral stereotypes related to women, primarily its traditional role as a mother and wife who seems to be the only thing to do with their looks, and this is something of their own health, and on the other hand remains that large number of different activities and abilities of roles and problems of women who are not media attractive, but which makes up a very important part of their lives. The media, as well as Croatian Television, sees this in this report, and continues to deal with the limited amount of issues associated with women. I said more largely avoid calling as equal interlocutors on all topics of importance. This means both politics and the economy and technologies, security and the like. And on the other hand, when the programme includes topics directly related to the issue of gender equality, let's say the issue of domestic violence, then it's very likely that only women will be invited as partners, and then we will continue to reproduce the same stereotypes again. Women are rarely protected or promoted on our public television and radio as politicians, leaders, experts, businessmen, and men are rarely or almost not shown in the roles of caring fathers, family guardians, care providers and the like. In that context, I think we should mention the question, what I was saying before, so-called. Women's topics and what they really are, as outlined in the report itself when, as by some default, women like soap operas, light movies and series, programs that teach about certain customs and the like. This approach ignores the important role of television and radio, which is educational. The repeated broadcast of "light themes intended for women" or those "hard topics intended for men" is missing the ability to educate and encourage thinking that we would finally remove as someone says from those two boxes. One says this is for women, and the other says this is for men. Finally, the only thing that can be praised in this report is the Council's final proposal, the HRT Council itself, and support the initiative to conduct targeted education of editors and editors on Croatian Radio and Television on the integration of gender equality issues into editorial and journalistic work. Because expecting that this conclusion will actually be carried out in practice only then can it be one of the steps that can contribute to the real promotion of gender equality in our public television and radio programmes. The SDP club supports the conclusions that seem to me largely uniquely brought to me by all the committees that discussed this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40152	Thank you. HDZ representative's club, Mrs. Zeljana Kalash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40153	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of HRT, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning of my presentation on behalf of the HDZ Club, I must express regret that this report is quite lacking, in fact, as colleagues themselves have already stated in their discussions or within the parent board but also in the name of the club insufficiently. Because according to this report, I can say that there is an impression that HRT worked even worse than it actually did. Of course, things aren't ideal, but in the debate we had on the parent board, for example, I have to say that it was clear that HRT was not very well understood about this task, but of course, I am glad to hear it from the representatives of the directorship and the programming board, and therefore I believe that today's presentations will also listen with attention. And especially for the reasons why the Committee's preparatory meetings allow us to conclude that we are almost all parliamentary parties in our evaluations of this report agree, we will take note of it, i.e. we would like to make concrete remarks that we have encountered in this report and some of our suggestions. In fact, gender equality policy means political will, clear orientation and determination in implementation, and special mechanisms and measures promoting gender equality. According to the terms of gender terminology, according to European Union standards, different terms for policy and measures that promote equality from affirmative action, positive actions, positive measures to specific and stimulating measures have been applied. We found little in this report. The Government of the Republic of Croatia also gave a written opinion on this report, which indicated that the area of gender equality was not adequately represented in Croatian Radio and Croatian Television and in the form of targeted emissions or contributions that would be broadcast regularly. The government has also stated that it also considers it necessary to take care of the selection of ads, as ads that encourage socially unacceptable behaviour towards women are often shown. It is also said on the parent board, I would like to point out today that HRT is expected to remove stereotypes, and to educate on gender equality, and not just as a convenient reporting related to the marking of significant dates. As I said at the beginning of my presentation, I would point out one more time. Gender equality policy marks specific mechanisms and measures promoting gender equality. So, from affirmative action, positive actions, positive measures to special and stimulating measures as I have already stated. And it is precisely these positive actions and encouraging measures that should be contained in the next report. But of course, in order for the report to contain HRT to process them. Because here's what I'm going to do for this speaker on behalf of the HDZ Club, I'm going to ask a few questions that are being raised by this first HRT report. First question, will husbands, bosses, neighbors treat us more equally to consume domestic and foreign soap operas served by national television in recent years? He won't. Second question. Whether in HTV's cultural programs the contents titled "Leave the house to burn, and run to the woman to bear", a show of folk costumes and the selection of the most beautiful Croats in the folk costume. Or maybe "Woo Sunday I go for my husband" helped promote awareness of the equality of men and women. No, they're not. Third question. Did the film program promote the equality of men and women with numerous TV novels for life and typical female problems, and one of... The woman was supposed to be a missus. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Marpud, the sitter detective, and as you say, you've taken care of the even display, I quote "men's genres", action films and thrillers and again quote "female chic" literature. No, I don't. Is it important to promote gender equality what you cited as the most important item of the HRT employee's ratio to, therefore, the relationship between men and women. No, it's not. And the last question. Could it be appropriate for women over the age of 60 to call women at their best? I don't think I'd agree with you. Because in fact there's a question here, and I haven't found it in any other literature that's related to birth sensitivity that's better for a woman in years, which is worse for a woman. I'll close with the questions. But I'm also going to give another concrete example. In fact, over 15 months, about how many I consider 450 journals, only 13 contributions that spoke about gender equality have been broadcast. When we calculated mathematically every month and a half, they published a minute of contribution to gender equality. Telling ya about this pay phone is pretty inappropriate. Public television also argues that no matter what he wants from the recent practice, I will especially highlight it with a single table, but in this practice you do daily. Here are several examples, although it does not refer to this particular report, which therefore refers to a period of one year, which should be until March of this year. Because I will highlight yesterday's show open about the presidential elections in the Republic of Croatia where guests were exclusively men. Do only men have something to say on this subject? Do we not have in Croatia women politicians, experts in political communication, political analysts or even politicians. It's impossible that women don't have an opinion on it. Then the same emissions during the summer period on budget rebalances and the resolution of the economic crisis. Guests only men. Women again have no opinion, no opinion whatsoever, and the government is at that moment being led by a woman. About once a year, and this is sugar at the end of HTV, seven to eight women who discuss women's problems and topics are gathered in the study. In this case you don't discriminate against us women, discriminate against our colleagues, our men. Don't they have their own opinions on these issues? They certainly do, we're talking about it both in the council benches and in the coffee shop. And for the end as a guideline for perhaps the next report on promoting the awareness of women and men's equality on HRT, I would like to highlight something that should be taken into account in the next report already mentions national policy to promote gender equality. In particular, it refers to point 73, and this is the introduction of a gender sensitive policy into the media. Several items are provided for, therefore, in the context of this introduction of a gender sensitive policy in the media, and this is to be informed of the obligations to introduce gender-sensitive policies in all areas of social life. Then, the allocation of resources for production or co-production of gender-sensitified media content and even those that are on, broadcasting even those created in independent production. The establishment of an independent body to monitor and assess the implementation of gender equality policy in the media is then required. It is then required to improve the effectiveness of protection against sexual discrimination. It is also required to develop a programme to support victims of sexual discrimination in the media and advertisers. And you're also looking for insurance, keeping statistics on the number of women who work in certain media and the types of their jobs. Of course, you stated that, but let's not let this be the only item in this national policy on promoting gender equality for the period 2006 to 2010. And to conclude, one example from Split. In Split, there is one street that is only 57 centimeters wide, it is 5 meters long. It is the best street in Split, they say it is the best street in Croatia. In it you can't pass by at the same time with the person coming from the opposite direction, but you can't even walk through that street and go aimfully meet, so the person coming from the opposite direction. It's a small street, but in Split, it's a pretty important street in Diocletian's palace and it's called "let go of me". It can teach us one important thing, which is that life is not always as narrow as it seems, and I think that life that you described on HRT is quite the way it seems in this report, and it might be good to say that it is brave to step forward, to be ready to let other people go just when it's tighter, just when it's running the most, just when it's the most problems and just when it rains, for example. as is the case today. And may this mass be our guide to the next report. And that's why I'm going to end up just saying the HDZ Club will take note of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40154	Thank you. IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40155	Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's what I fell for. Now I have to defend television, here's the first one. ... I'm going to defend, I'm going to defend television in this section about gender equality. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] First, we need to see how many gentlemen are employed on television, how many women are there. However, women are certainly not sub-represented in the conduct of functions that, under quotes, carry on Croatian radio television. Women on Croatian TV are certainly not under-represented if we watch what influence they have there. And finally, women are certainly not sub-represented on Croatian television, through which it is decided, etc. In fact, women on Croatian radiotelevision are led by editorial policy, if that is the case with water and Croatia, they decide more precisely who will be in power in Croatia. So the Prime Minister's wife, the editor-in-chief of Croatian Radio Television, the President of the Constitutional Court, the chief auditor, the woman at the head of the Public Procurement Commission, we discussed this yesterday. So no one has the right to equality, to disrespect gender equality in Croatia. That's my personal opinion. Today, however, she may be more female judges than judges, more women doctors than doctors, more women teachers, teachers, than teachers, etc. And that's not bad, and that doesn't have to be bad. As it is also probably far more journalistic at this point than journalists. This will mean that this gender equality in Croatian institutions, as I experience and watch, is not questionable. So what's the problem? Maybe the problem is, let's say, when we talk about this equality in national minorities, not women, in national minorities. Good and they're protected by constitutional law. The other thing is that it's not going back, which is not renovating some collapsed buildings by "Storm" or a collapsed building in the vicinity of Bjelovar's out-of-war zone, which isn't coming back kidnapped, etc. However, I say that the biggest discrimination when we look at citizens' representation in the government of the Republic of Croatia is towards the citizens of Istria. No minister, no secretary of state, no one at the head of a public firm, no general, no one in the third, four-story government. But let's let it go now. I'll take it back to Croatian Radio. But before that, I have a report here on the effects of the application of the Law on Discontinuation of Discrimination signed by Tomislav Ivic, and here, among other things, is the area of race discrimination, meaning the subject of the Public Advocate for Discrimination on grounds of discrimination for the period from 1 January 2009 to 5 May 2009. So race or ethnicity, skin color, national origin, number of items received 17, sex 11, zero language, faith 1, political and other belief zero, property status 3, union membership 3, social status, social background 7, marital and family status 3, age, health status 1, disability 3, genetic heritage 1, etc. A total of 57 performances. That's number one to go from. So in my opinion, personal Croatian broadcasting whatever some say, I don't think there are any problems in some sub-representation. On page 2 of this report, it is literally said, as regards women and men's representation in the structure of HRT employees: Croatian Radio 46.8% are women, 53.2% are men. Croatian television 36.8% are women, 63.13% men, music production 39.3% women, 60% men and some PJOIZP HRT 47% women, 52.9% men. The proportions of representations that contribute to men are primarily caused by traditional male interests of technicians, cameramen, drivers, builders, guards, firefighters, informers and the like. For this report, I quote further, the most important ratio of employees of women and men in HR and HTV programmes is probably because it can also affect the sensitivity of relations to sexual differences. The situation within the programme is the following Croatian Radio, Information Programme 67.7% of women, in fact 67.8% women and 32.2% men. Other Croatian Radio programmes 62.7% of women, 37.3% of men. In Croatian radio of a total of 16 programs in editorial posts 8 are women and 8 men. Croatian television, this IP HTV 68.3%, I guess it's an information program, 68.3% of women, 31.7% of men. Other HTV programs 61.7% of women, 38.2% of men. On HTV of a total of 10 programs, there are 5 women and 5 men in editorial places. As for salaries in HRT, all workers regardless of whether men or women are in equal jobs, have equal salaries and there are no differences. The pay gap between men and women on average can only occur with the basis of the number of hours of work, sick leave, addition to working conditions, training fees clearly etc., etc. Now, it is not to be commended for the fact that out of the total number of members of the Directorate, the director of the programme, the editor-in-chief of the HR and HTV information programmes, 8 of which are appointed by the HRT Council, only one woman. The problem is that, but come on, I guess it'll be dealt with in due course. As far as the other points here are concerned, the programs where poverty is mentioned have a female face, I think it's a little tense. Poverty in Croatia has a Croatian face, and men and women are when it comes to poverty and that I am now not talking about all these programs, the information program also followed interesting campaigns in Istria, without women no longer being able to, just to mention that the list for the county assembly I wore from 41 names 21 was a woman, meaning more than men, which will say that they are represented in that representative body itself. I think it would be good to talk about some other issues that have a face of poverty in the Republic of Croatia, real problems, not this marginal problem that we open on Croatian radio television, perhaps unnecessary, perhaps it would be good to talk about protected tenants, 5,000 people living in such apartments, 60, 55, or 50 years of age can't get out of their apartments, make them throw them out into the streets, the courts seem to be slicing their vessels, where at last in 75 or 80 years on the road, it's gentlemen of injustice, it was nationalisation, this practice I think should stop, it's one topic that should be dealt with far before the gender balance on Croatian radio television. We should be dealing with the issue of devastation outside the war zones, only in Bjelovar, about 600 buildings, Serbian nationalities were destroyed, nothing was paid to anyone, and in 96, we abolished the Law on Mandatory Relations, ours crashed, etc. I think it means, slowly I'm going to end up doing it better than one topic that at this point may not be primarily of interest to the citizens of this country, meaning topics where a huge injustice has really happened to certain categories of citizens. And what between women and men in my opinion in the Republic of Croatia is relatively correct. To end, I think we really need to deal with all kinds of discrimination, the clarity and equality of women on Croatian radio television, absolutely by saying that, I am 100% to make it so, but we need to be a little realistic, sometimes stand firm on earth, not to be exaggerated, the equality that there are probably also problems in some other institutions, but at this time perhaps the least gender equality problems is precisely on Croatian radio television. It might be better if gentlemen we were dealing with the editorial policy of Croatian Radio Television, dealing with problems that women craftsmen have, means women who work, women who work and don't receive salaries, who have to go to Italy, who work in the country, women without work, women who work on shifts, single mothers, etc. But I agree that maximum equality is necessary, it is necessary to abolish the stereotypes that some MPs spoke of before me, but once again I will say the least inequality between men and women at this point is probably on Croatian radio television, and much more perhaps in this assembly. But not outside the assembly room. I won't say that women are more equal than men, but they're not definitely represented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40156	Your presentation has sparked a very lively interest of parliamentarians and MPs who have responded with a series of corrections of incorrect allegations. First Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40157	So I am correcting one logical irregularity of Mr. President Caine who simply made a logical mistake of moving to another generation by talking about promoting gender equality on Croatian television. He cited as an argument the number of employees of men and women on Croatian radio television, which has nothing to do with each other. In the context of such a thesis, it is said that men are more represented and priorities against this equality and women are priors for, which is not true, can be 100% women on television so that we have a programme that will not advocate gender equality. And vice versa. So, a completely wrong thesis, and I don't think it's a good thing to relativize, no matter what everyone agrees, there are important problems in this country, but this is one of the issues that a representative of Cain must also have over these slightly more extensive attitudes than what he said.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40158	Mr. Representative Goran Heffer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40159	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I would like to correct my colleague Cain's incorrect claim that this is a marginal problem, and I do not consider it a marginal problem since it is a central information house in the Republic of Croatia and the treatment of a population that is over 50% in Croatia. It is also about state television that has an obligation and a task to treat all citizens of the Republic of Croatia equally, after all as a presidential candidate I do not think it is a good thing to say it in this form.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40160	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40161	Here I would have to join my colleagues in fact, I cannot agree with my colleague Cain's claims that this is not a primary political issue and that it is a marginal political issue, and it is not when it comes to HRT and it is not a marginal political issue in general, and I think that a presidential candidate who addresses a larger number of Croatian citizens, i.e. the voter should be careful how he talks about such topics.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40162	Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40163	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I can't agree with my colleague Cain's claim that this question is not primarily at this time, and I'm sorry, in fact, that he has shown a complete lack of understanding of the subject that is being discussed today, which is best supported when he finally spoke about the problem of women craftsmen, women in the country, women who are out of work, and that's what this is all about, that in HRT's programme you are talking about these topics when women don't have such programs. So in this sense, you do not speak on Croatian radio and television, I am talking about programs that promote awareness of gender equality and I am sorry that in some way you have excluded your exposure to say, one vast majority of citizens from this country to participate, in their request to participate equally in programmes broadcast on Croatian Radio and Television as public institutions. I'm afraid you've actually shown a complete lack of understanding of this subject which I am extremely sorry for. Maybe we should go to education together with...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40164	Okay, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst next.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40165	Thank you very much. Well, incorrectly, Agent Cain said that women are a marginal problem to deal with...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40166	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40167	in Croatia, i.e. that there are not enough topics...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40168	That's what you thought I didn't say. I said HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40169	Peace, please. ... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40170	The presidential candidate will be the only male presidential candidate who doesn't like to discuss women. I think this issue is particularly important, especially as regards women's equality in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40171	And Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40172	Well, all my predecessors have said that, and I will just point out once more, when it comes to whether something more important at this point I believe that the candidates would be the most important thing to discuss only the candidates and that would be the real subject for them, but Croatia would not be what it is today, because in wartime it was also discussing a call or at first glance less important topics but they were on the Parliament's agenda when war was being waged for Croatia so I don't see any reason why such a topic is not appropriate at this moment and this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40173	HNS representative's club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40174	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear rapporteurs of the report, we have heard the opening statement of the Committee on Gender Equality with whose conclusions the members of the HNS Club fully agree. And I'm not going to repeat that by estimating your time and your time, but let me just underline a few things. I will quote and say what the Prime Minister of the Government's Gender Equality Office, Ms Helena Štimac-Radin, has said that the report of the Programme Council has many incorrect allegations and errors, alarming, assessing that in a year and a half of the reporting period in the central HTV daily, only 13 news on gender equality issues has been broadcast. I quote, "And the Programme Council still states this in the report as a positive access to HTV," said Mrs Radin. She further argued that HTV did not report at all on the adoption of a new Law on Gender Equality, that it did not follow the activities of its Office, although it said, the obligation to promote gender equality that HRT had brought back in 2005. She added that they do not respect the obligation set out in the National Strategy for the Promotion of Gender Equality on Information to citizens on the introduction of well-aware policies in all areas of HRT's life. HRT offers us a contribution to the famous folk costumes, said Mrs. Radin, and I absolutely agree with that. In her opinion, she also objected to the Government’s view that the area of gender equality is not sufficiently represented in the emissions and contributions of national radio and television, although it would significantly contribute to the importance of gender equality in society, tolerance and culture of dialogue and respect for diversity. The government particularly complains about the HT broadcasting of propaganda messages, which say in the government, fosters socially unacceptable behaviour towards women and does not contribute to the repression of discrimination against them. The club of representatives of the CNS and it fully supports it. Various surveys say that women in the Republic of Croatia unfortunately do not know their rights enough, and the general population does not know the specifics of gender equality. Therefore, the responsibility of public media is greater in terms of education and awareness. The analyses also, unfortunately, further show that more commercial television is talking about this topic than our State Television, which, by the way, we also pay for a television subscription. But in the end, I'm going to say that the HNS Club will take note and another sentence. I am pleased that, as they said, they will accept all these criticisms and that in the next period they will try to fix things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40175	Thank you. An individual debate. Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40176	Thank you, Vice President. For the first time today, we are discussing the Report on the promotion of awareness of women and men's equality in Croatian Radio and Croatian Television programmes. That on Croatian radio TV during 2008 and 2009, I think it is necessary to welcome the fact that we are discussing such a document in this House. But if we deal with the content and structure of this document, which should right now aim at promoting gender equality and overcoming sexual stereotypes and prejudice, I do not think we should be satisfied at all. For what? Mostly because this document appears to be an alibi of the Programme Council for numerous failures in the field of gender equality policy both on HRT itself and in programmes and content, not as much Croatian radio as Croatian television. Yes, it is true that it is not commendable that there are only 1 women and 7 men in HRT's directory, but to whom exactly the Council is expressing dissatisfaction because the Council is currently selecting members and possibly members of the HRT Directorate, although at the proposal of the Director General. Is it said that the Council should blindly follow the proposal of the Director or Director and, if so, the charade that the Council chooses members and members of the Directorate? Speaking of members and members, I believe that for every conviction that the report on gender equality does not use the native sensitive language, but probably also shows how sensitive this issue is to authors, let us hope not the authors of this report, about the use of natively sensitive language on television and radio, there is not a word in the entire report that should not surprise us at all when even the report that deals with this topic is not written in natively sensitive language. Because using a native language is such a pain in the ass we've seen in this House thousands of times already, so why don't we end the female in Croatian to make life easier? I'm asking a question. It is also known that Croatian society is actually seriously counting on those who are male, so why don't we say it openly. In addition, it is very surprising that there is no letter in the entire report on the full context of gender equality to inadequate, even offensive ads, especially for beer rich in gender stereotypes of both men and women. It is not true that the Programme Council does not have any effect on the broadcasting of the marketing programme, because as far as I know, it can prohibit the broadcasting of content contrary to the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality, which I remind you of in Article 16(2), and I quote: "No public representation and representation of women and men in an offensive, disdaining or humiliating way in view of sex and sexual orientation. I'd say here again, not sexual orientation, but sexual orientation. On the other hand, it seems to me that the authors and authors in their desire to deepen the rather thin content of the report in it have also pushed in some elements that do not belong to this report, so on page 13, in the section dealing with the feature films, I quote: "except that over the year, numerous films that have dealt very seriously with women's subjects and problems with the problem of women in society and sexual inequality have continued in the terms reserved for so-called. Lighter films, evenly showing the so-called Men's genres, action films, thrillers, etc. The women's achievement of the chic flick and numerous hits in which the main heroes are women." I'm afraid this sentence, which is provoking from the stereotyping of men, is particularly lush from the insulting stereotyping of women totally demeaning and negates the idea of promoting gender equality that should be the goal of this report. Because if the authors and authors of this report don't realize how offensive and unacceptable it is to share sex on the basis of the affinity to so-called. men's and women's film genres, talk about what's called the so-called in the report on the promotion of awareness of women and men's equality, then it's better not to write a report like this at all. Namely, before writing such a report, they should and should expose the patriarchal prejudices within themselves, prejudices that, with the help of stereotype women, confer on the traits of frivolous, emotional, passive, subjugated, cowardly, and lighter readings of stupider human beings. We should and should expose the patriarchal prejudices shown by men as purely rational, unemotional, active, dominant, brave and smarter human beings. Should we say that society is more acceptable and desirable precisely those qualities and traits attributed to men while those traits that are prescribed by women are undesirable? When authors and authors understand and accept that there are no strictly male or strictly female, but only human character traits, in other words when the patriarchal dogmas are released, I believe they will no longer think of writing about male and female content and genres in such a superficial and fundamentally discriminatory way. Because of everything previously said, I cannot accept this report, because that rather than promoting gender equality and equality is exactly the opposite of promoting patriarchal prejudice, and that is not something we should welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40177	Thank you. It's our guest, Mr. Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40178	Dear Vice President, representatives of the HRT Council, MPs. Well, we discussed gender equality in this assembly somewhere in June and I think we discussed it thoroughly. But I believe, unlike President Cain, that this issue should be discussed as much as possible. And I think that by his argument, President Cain has given himself an auto goal, given that the electoral body makes more women than men. So it's gonna be hard to get past these presidential elections. But I will look more at the exposure to gender equality related to employment on Croatian Radio-Television than what, because other colleagues talked more about the shows themselves. The report shows that public television and radio programmes respect gender equal employment and equal to that of employees. But unfortunately, only a small number of women are registered to competitions for leading jobs as well as in the event of competitions for the head director of Croatian Radio Television, which was registered by 28 men, and only two women of whom had not met the necessary conditions. So the Council of HRT didn't have much of a choice. Looking at Croatia's radio-television as a whole, it seems to me that men prevail in the structure of employees. However, it should not be disturbed that men are employed in a large number of traditional male occupations, such as drivers, technicians, cameramen, i.e. on those jobs for which women have much less interest than men do. Looking at the ratio of men and women employed in the programmes of both Croatian Radio and Croatian Television, women are statistically viewed as a much stronger sex, editorial places facing gender are divided half-half. This concludes that Croatia's radio-television takes care of the equal employment of both sexes, especially in editorial places. It is also important to add praise for the fact that there is no difference in salary, which was mentioned here, based on gender, but the normal salary is due to the equality of the workplace. I will also point out that Croatian radio television does not have that kind of scandal, as it recently broke out on the state-run Polish radio, which banned news and informative articles in the prime time of the day from reading press speakers. They can only do it in the afternoon or evening hours. The reason is that management has concluded that men's voices are more pleasant and when men read the news, they sound more convincing, rejecting any notion of discrimination against women, regardless of the fact that daily shows are more prestigious and more paid. As 68% of women and only 32% of men work on our radio in the information program, I don't think we have to be afraid that this could happen on our Croatian radio. Through the software content Croatian Radio-Television pays special attention to the principles of gender equality, although this could be better, and we have heard this already through what shows could certainly better talk about gender equality. However, I would point out, as stated in the conclusion of the Croatian Radio-Television Council, that more attention should be paid to the selection of emission partners in the future, so as to give the opportunity to discuss relevant topics as many experts and experts from various areas as possible. That would give us more information, and we'd have a chance to hear different opinions, because you know when we watch some shows in the evenings that are very much watched, we actually see almost always the same faces, so people get the impression that we're looking at and we're actually watching the same replay every night. and individuals don't even get to change how often guests are on individual shows, so sometimes people wonder who the guest is and who the host is on that public television. I think if that goes away and for the next report, given our new president of the Programme Council, it'll be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40179	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Mirjana Feric-Vac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40180	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Drinker with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. This report that we are discussing today has been absorbed by committees before the summer break. It came into procedure at the 5th month of this year for 2008. I hope Mr. Drinker who wasn't in a position to answer for at least receiving messages that it's a little late for something that can be changed and here we are finally in the middle of the quarter line when the topics of the presidential campaign are going to have one of their own paces that we're going to try to compensate for. This topic is not a theme of women and men, the topic of gender equality and gender equality, gender awareness and the implementation of something that has long been called "Gender mainstreaming" is a subject of social importance. As far as men and women are concerned, it concerns age differences that need to be dealt with in relation to gender equality. What was insufficient in Croatian TV programmes is greater birth sensitivity, is the higher representation of women on shows because we had a whole series of primordial shows in which only women participated and as I said one more time gender equality and sensitivity concern both sexes. There were enough topics missing regarding labour rights that are very important for women, women are generally slightly educated, little informed but not only women but men at all about everything that comes out of labour law it was the least on television. And I have to say it's very nice when we talk about traditions it has its own historical connotation, it's all right. However, there is also something in these traditions that should be placed in the natively sensitive element. So take, for example, Alku, where all the cups, all the guys, etc., are always stressed, I haven't seen any more shows in this document that would be dedicated to women who exclusively maintain old costumes, which exclusively maintain traditional, actually renovate costumes and return some elements that have become a little lost in our traditional costume. As far as this area of tradition is concerned, we have a vast area of women in the country, during two weeks it is marked 15.10., 15.10. is International Women's Day in the Village, Village Women's Day. However, rural women are not only women who parade at certain festivals in costumes, these are women who have a very difficult life, whose availability of health services has been greatly disabled, simply by traffic connections about these women, there was not a word about this equality. The work they do in rural households is equal to the work men do. That equality didn't work out. I also have to say that this is a report, so I'll tell you a little hypocritical. Either someone doesn't understand what gender equality is or thinks we don't see it in this home, but just to think we find soap operas and telenovels as an expression of gender equality, so it must be humiliating for a house called Croatian Radio-Television. And in that context, I'd like to ask you to stand up for this year's shows. We witnessed a show last night in which the participant says the next man and woman, twice with a prominent journalist who in no way reacts, so that, at least one sentence, he can say that we don't share the gender of man and woman but men and women. So, gender equality doesn't live today, and I would ask you nicely to at least present a quality report in the following year that will concern gender equality as regulated by laws and national policies and as regards education of journalists and journalists and editors and editors there is in Oxford Green College which has a very high quality education for journalists, so I hope that it is available to everyone on television simply by simply clicking to see what opportunities can be opened in cooperation with such a very respected college character. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40181	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40182	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen from HTV. I'm going to say a few things very briefly about this report. I have to admit that it's bad when a report that speaks of promoting the awareness of women and men's equality in Croatian Radio and Croatian TV programs is actually only filled with a number of sex stereotypes, so here's just two. In fact, it is said here that the proportions of representations that contribute to men are primarily caused by traditionally male occupations, and among other professions it is said that traditional male occupation is an informer. I really don't see why only men were good informers. A large number of women are actually good maybe even better informers than men, so this is one sex stereotype that wasn't supposed to be found in a report like this. What I must further admit really disgusted me in this report is one name that characterizes male and female film genres, so it's said that male genres are those who are action, thriller and so on and female genres are called a chic flick. I've been asking around, it's really coming from the word chicken, so it's from the chicken. I guess that's chicken movies then. Well, when women in a report like this are also called their films as if we women don't watch other kinds of movies, but we only look at this kind of kind of thing called "chik flick" here, that means that indeed by those who wrote this, women are treated like chickens, and these are chicken movies, at least that's what this report says. So speaking of sex stereotypes, it would be good if only the report wasn't filled with sex stereotypes. I'm going to say something here a little bit more from the aspect of children who, unfortunately, have been getting more and more in front of television screens lately, and the less they're after the book, the less they're reading. So we have literally one generation of children growing up in front of cell phones, computers, television screens, and the less they read books, the less they go to libraries. Well, since it's already so that our children are under a much bigger and bigger influence from the media, especially electronics, then it would be good for television to keep a little watch on the content they broadcast because it sometimes has a very big impact on children and often it's hard to explain to parents why a message is being sent from the television screen that the parent says is not good. I'll tell you now, for example. One of the commercials where mother and child used to bleach each other, it was a commercial that wanted to send a message that there were some means that, I say, the pure language. So whitening on the TV screen of mother and child to each other is really a bad message to children, and it is hard for you as a parent to explain to a child that this is inappropriate behavior when it tells you why it is so on TV. On the other hand, commercials also rope and sex stereotypes. There's one commercial lately where when a father sits in a car, he talks to his kids in the back seat, and then the little girl's sun is tied up, and she tells her son you're tied up. Pure sex stereotype, in case it's not the other way around, in case she's not the boss and he's the sun. This was also a question on the board when we discussed how far this advertising part can be affected, how much it can affect the content of advertising and how much public television can therefore be kept in mind that some ads are put aside and that they are said to be simply not broadcast on HRT programmes as a result of inappropriate content and bad influence on children. The fact is, we also have commercials that are so hard to deal with because we've declared beer a food, not an alcoholic drink, and you all know beer can also get drunk. So, numerous ads that interrupt sports content that advertise and offer therefore one desirable behavior, which is that beer, beer consumption, is something that is desirable good, it goes with sport. I'm sorry that there's no other message attached to sports, and that's that sports is something that's useful for health, not that sport is really something that's related to beer consumption. I know I'm saying something now that most nations don't want to hear because it's normal behavior for everyone to take a bottle of beer and popcorn or chips with football, but I definitely don't think it's a good message for kids, and that's something public television should take care of. And in the end, I would just say something, which is that we really lack this educational content, that even when we have that kind of content then it's in terms that are not adapted to children and young people. So it's the same thing to take care of. On behalf of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, we have therefore made certain conclusions from this point of view which I hope will soon be put to the vote, and I hope that we will help the Programme Council to make the public television programme a lot better. I know that public television suffers and something else, and that's what we often have a much worse program on other televisions that have a national concession. HTV is actually the only one who suffers criticism and HTV is the only one that we can influence, but this is because HTV is public television and because it is expected, so since it is financed mostly by citizens from the subscription by means of its own means, it also meets some needs that are not commercially cost-effective, but citizens expect it from public television. In this case, therefore, children and young people expect another educational program, one that is adapted to them, that can send positive messages and that will be in the time that they can therefore watch. Here's what I've said, so I won't be able to support a report like this not just because of the content on HTV, but also because the report is filled with sex stereotypes and things that shouldn't have been found in a single report like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40183	Thank you. And finally, the distinguished representative Željka Antunović, so I ask MPs and MPs to be patient for a little while longer, and then we go to the vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. President of the Programme Council. My colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to try and really be brief and not repeat everything that's been heard, because I can see that it's given off the concentration relative to the debate on this subject. Well, I think that in discussions on equality in general, and particularly on gender equality, it's too often that we come to a situation where even when we can definitely talk about some progress in the debate, as is the case in this report, the debates are purely critical. I also join all those colleagues, with the exception of colleagues, who have made their criticisms here. I don't think they should be taken maliciously and I'll add, it was much worse before. This is the first report that the Croatian Television, even such a report, is submitted by the Programme Council. I think that everything that deserves criticism, both in Croatian broadcasting programmes and in this report, stems from a definitely undeveloped awareness of what this equality is. It's not about the clucking of some women who are emancipated, conscious issues and the problems of equality, it's really about fundamental human values. There are stereotypes in the heads of many and in the heads of those who think that they respect and understand the equality of women and men, there are stereotypes in their heads and we still don't think about it as universal human values. However, by joining these criticisms, I will repeat this once again, let us be full of understanding. Accept these criticisms as something that will be an incentive for the shifts that have taken place in recent years, and this shift stemming from the legal obligation of the Gender Equality Act to even discuss this and to discuss it at the highest political and legislative level in the Assembly, all of these being incentives to continue to extend our awareness to one another in the right way of what this problem is, to contribute to each place and to an additional and permanent education not only those who have to deal with this issue but also those who need to understand this issue. Here, so much for me. I'm going to be like everyone else, or I'm not going to make a positive statement about this report. But I said, I am full of understanding for all of these stereotypes, which are filled with this report and which, unfortunately, are also very often filled with software content on Croatian television.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40185	Thank you. And a final review of the Đuro Popiè, president of the HRT Programme Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40186	Dear Vice President. So, I followed closely all of your statements that were of course critical and quality suggestions. The Programme Council can hardly make a report much different than just the state of the Croatian Radio Television, but certainly the Programme Council will do everything possible to carry out all your conclusions that will be delivered to us in accordance with its powers. And, of course, if it is possible for your suggestions from your discussions to also be obtained in the form of a stenogram so that the Programme Council has more power and power to carry out these very conclusions and suggestions through self-directory and all those responsible for the production of the program that you here and evaluate as it is. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40187	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-02-0.u40188	We're going to 33rd. Report on the promotion of awareness of women and men's equality in HR and HTV programmes and on HRT ( 2008-2009 period) Proposer of the HRT Programme Council. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. "According to the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, the Report on the promotion of awareness of women and men's equality in HR and HTV programmes, and on HRT (2008-2009 period)" Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by most votes, 69 votes for, 23 abstentions and one against. The Committee on Gender Equality and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities proposes to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: "The Programme Council of the Croatian Radio-Television is in charge that, when regular annual reports are submitted to the Croatian Parliament on the work and implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by law in HTV and HR programmes, it also submits a special report on the promotion of awareness of gender equality in accordance with the observations and proposals made in the debate." I am voting on this committee's conclusion. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This conclusion by the two committees was adopted by a majority vote of 91 votes and 1 abstention and nothing against. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports suggests the following conclusions: "The Croatian Programme Council is in charge of affecting the programme content of Croatian Radio and Croatian Television in order to avoid sexual stereotypes and contribute to the sensitivity of the public on gender equality, which would affect the reduction of the number of forms of socially unacceptable behaviours. Third, it is proposed to the HRT Programme Council to consider, in accordance with the legal powers, ads broadcast on Croatian television that could have messages of socially unacceptable behaviour towards women in their content." Let's please get involved and vote on these two proposals. The result? This proposal for a conclusion was adopted unanimously by 92 votes. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The continuation of the session of the Croatian Parliament is October 14th. In the meantime, however, on Tuesday, we will hold a sixth session on the occasion of the State Awards ceremony in the Croatian Parliament and the independence ceremony, you received invitations. And on Wednesday 14, we continue at 9.30 p.m. with the agenda on the proposal for a decision on accession to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with a proposal for a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So, the first point of the 14th will be the proposal for a decision on the accession of the amendments to the Constitution. Have a nice weekend. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and deputies continue the work of the 14th session of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to Mrs Jadranka Kosor and the Ministers present in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and we move on to - Proposal for a Decision on the Accession of the Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with the Proposal for a Draft Amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is the Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Government proposed these acts on the basis of Article 142. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Ms. Jadranka Kosor Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
