ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-1.u12380	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 19th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 108 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 174 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are working conditions. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure and exceptional for Monday, i.e. other than those laid down in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly to consider the draft agenda decision as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the session of the 19th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly, which was convened at the request of 235 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure, you have been sent a request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with a certain agenda contained in that request. For the session of the 19th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th session, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a decision appointing members of the Election Campaign Supervisory Board, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. We're going to work on the agenda. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single search on the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Election Campaign Supervisory Board, submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and local self-government. The president of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, MP Vladimir Djukanovic, is the representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-1.u12381	I thank you, Chairman. Here is another one in a series of acts brought by this Assembly, which concerns democratic improvement of the electoral process. Personally, I have to admit that I would never bring something like this, because everything that is otherwise brought is brought absolutely to the detriment of the ruling party. I don't think it's ever happened in history, it's really never happened in any country, I'm not just talking about Serbia, that the ruling party cuts itself off to this extent and somehow destroys in the electoral process, self-destructs in the electoral process, that almost complete its influence and what otherwise belongs to it based on something it's won almost lost, to prove its democracy and to show to the whole world, and even to our entire public, that we really don't mind facing it, that we have a conflict of opinions, that we have all possible secure procedures to, of course, the opposition that complains as Kalimera and calls on European MPs to help her to, as they say, have equal treatment. This is no equal treatment, I want to point it out to the entire public, these are anti-conditions for the ruling party. It is absolutely possible for the opposition to dominate the entire election process. Repeat for who knows which time, the opposition will have an absolute majority in both the Republic Election Commission and all other municipal and city election commissions. Here, as of tomorrow, when the ruling party's elections are discussed, they won't be able to perform in the media with a national frequency unless it's a paid term or if you participate in the debates you can't host anymore. Unlike the opposition who will have all this and who will have the absolute opportunity to run an uninterrupted campaign, we won't be able to do it. I must say, and therefore I ask you, first and foremost, the membership of the Serbian Progressive Party, but I ask all of our MPs to further engage in this campaign and that, despite these terrible conditions, we never win a more convincing victory for us. I am convinced that citizens are voting for the programme, I am convinced that they are voting for the results, for what has been achieved and for what you are offering to achieve in some future period. You can't run a campaign and ask citizens to vote because you don't like someone. This campaign – ua Vukiću, we hate you, Vučiću, you are the worst, without offering anything alternative, it brings no points, it does not pay the citizens. Among other things, we are ready, here we are, making a decision on the formation of this monitoring committee that will follow a complete election process in which, we must admit, the sitting people who are not even a little fond of the ruling coalition, we have nothing against, control, do whatever you want, we are convinced of our pure victory, because we have what to offer people, something we have achieved, we have serious results behind us and we offer a serious programme. Please, please, all citizens, on April 3rd, at a real festival of democracy, come out and take a convincing victory over those who apparently, besides eating pig in front of the presidency and having tycoon media, have nothing else to offer you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-1.u12382	I would like to thank the rapporteur's representative. Do the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-1.u12383	I thank you, Doctor Orlic. Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, citizens of Serbia, firstly I will be an Orthodox believer, as today is the Holy Trifun, the glory of our winemakers and winemakers, to congratulate them all on the glory and to wish them a generation this year, that this year the wine flows like a river, that there is love among us in these elections, that we declare that we respect ourselves, that we appreciate ourselves and that, normally, people vote for those who have given results, for those who have done something and for those who will do the same, to make it even better. From this place, since I was invited today to be present in the village of Ravna, where the hosts called me, where they cut the vineyards today, where I was to celebrate this day with them today, but because of my obligations in the Assembly I did not go, first I will wish them that their vineyards were born, that they had wine, that they were lucky, that they had health. This applies to all others in the municipality of Književec, since the village of Ravna is in the municipality of Književec, this applies to all vineyards. I'll mention Nis and the environment here, because it's so-called. The wineries were once very recognizable, where they had a large number of wine producers, large companies present there. Normally, that's during the two thousand years, when those who destroyed the earth came, they destroyed everything there. Now I can say that it's slow there, but surely it's coming back to the vineyards again, it's planting the vines again, and it's going to be an opportunity to make it even better. My people from Svrlig, who deals with winemaking, would also congratulate them on this day, since the “Status” winery, owned by Svrlig, bought in the village of Malče cooperative “Malca” that works for the production of quality wine and thus planted its vineyard in Svrlig, which is organically very high quality, which means slowly but surely, with the support of the Serbian State, with the support of the competent Ministry of Agriculture, is working to promote the development of viticulture, because they were once very successful, among the more successful countries in Europe and the Balkans. Once again, my dear winemakers, I want you to celebrate your day, your glory of the Holy Trifun in health and happiness with your loved ones, normally, and our young people and those who are older, I want you to have a lot of love, that every next day there will be love between us, that we may respect ourselves, that we may appreciate ourselves and respect ourselves. Once again, happy glory, my dear friends. I so wanted to say, since I have this obligation as an Orthodox believer, as a Orthodox, as a man who respects his faith, respects his church, because without it, we know what a Serbian tripod is, it is a Serbian church, a Serb village and a Serb army. Here today we are talking, once again, a colleague of Djukanovic said that the ruling majority is doing everything contrary to what one would expect. We give the possibility to some who rebel, some who have been in previous years, to say more precisely from 2000 to 2012, to destroy this country, to give them the opportunity to control, to do what they think and to check whether it's right how electoral actions are done. I am sure that the list that Alexander Vukic will run will have the greatest support, not because of some things that are irrelevant, but because much has been done, because much is done, because in the period from 2014 to today it works in every village, in every district. It is also a sign that our people see it, and I am sure that Alexander Vukic, if he is running, will have the greatest support and I am sure that he will have over 60% in the first round, if he is running. The United Peasant Party, whose president I am, had its main committee on Saturday (February 12th) at the Council of the Three Gerards, where we decided to support if Aleksandar Vukic is running for Serbian President to support him and invite all people living in the country and from the village to support the man who is leading the country to Serbia in the direction that is best for us. The list to be led by Aleksandar Vukic for the parliamentary elections will be supported because we will now be on that list as the United Peasant Party and have our own representatives and we will advocate that we are working in every part of our Serbia. I always put an accent on southeastern Serbia, on Nis, on Srlig, on the White Palank, Gajin Han, Sokobanju, on those municipalities that need much more investment. Now I will mention the Bookie, Bor, Majdanpek, Kladov and other municipalities, Kursumli, here, my colleague Bratimir reminds me. It's a big deal, because we have to pay more attention to these municipalities and I'm sure that the list that Alexander Vukic will run will work on, and I'm sure we'll have more investment there than we've ever had before. Now that my colleague Bratimir Vasiljevic reminds me, I'll be late to congratulate him on his 70th birthday. Dear fellow Bratimir, I wish you much health, happiness, to you and yours, to be able to welcome your 100th birthday and to celebrate it in health and happiness with your flattery, so it is said in my neighborhood, flattery, flattery, it is pra, pra, pra, great-grandson. So, fellow Bratimira, normally, we will work together to make sure that our citizens living in the territory of the town of Nis, on the territory of Srlig, the Nisav district, the southeast of Serbia hear and know that people living in the country and from the village will support and support our president and the man who will lead the list for the parliamentary elections of Aleksandr Vukic. One of the more important things for me as a man, I've talked about it before, and I'm sure it has to be done next period after the election, because we've made decisions that matter to every man. There was no difference whether he lives in Srlig, whether he lives in Subotica, whether he lives in Tutina, Prepolje or lives in Novi Sad. For every man we looked to be the same. For the next period, I, as a member of the Parliament, will be a candidate for the MP on the list and coalition partner, as the United Peasant Party, along with my coalition partners, with our president, watch, pray, and ask for a way to allocate larger funds for areas such as underdeveloped municipalities, mountain-mountan areas, not to repeat what all these areas are. Mahom are areas in the territory of southeastern Serbia, and there are other parts of Serbia. We need to raise more funds there if we can. I used to be the president of the municipality, and as president of the municipality by 2011, we had decisions from the Assembly, which were made by the Assembly at the time, that we singled out for every newborn child, unemployed maternity, for the marriage community, and for those people living in the villages there we gave 50% of the funds. Now, that's what I'm asking, and I'm asking it to be after these parliamentary elections, that we pass such a law, that these subsidies, help our families, our children living in the country, live from the village, our families, or the women they're going to live in, that we have to have greater separations for them than for those women who live in urban areas. I say this because it is a need, because we see daily and alone that a large number of young people want to leave their hearths, come to bigger cities, go to some bigger places, and go to another country, which our government and our Serbian president are doing to stop it. It's got results, you can tell. A large number of our medics, here, I can tell from an example from my community that a doctor and her husband were in Germany, came back because there is nothing better than in her country, in her place. Our medics, our sisters, our doctors are really people who are worth, who know, who in this difficult situation are fighting for every man we have. In a conversation with our Minister Mr. Loncar, Minister of Health, I discussed the problems of people in these environments, the problems of emergency work, where he also formed a task force that will work to improve the conditions for emergency work. Those places that don't have an ambulance, such as Svrljig and those smaller municipalities of 25,000 inhabitants, will be watched to find a way to form an ambulance that can provide every man with a service that he needs, so that he can survive when that situation is always certain that it can happen to each of us. The important thing for all of us is investing in health care, investing in agriculture. A lot of things that the Minister of Agriculture has done, I've supported, I've said a lot of things that shouldn't be done so because when I live in Srlig, I live in the village of Pluzina, it's the village where I was born, I say the things that the state gives, I support these things, but in my case, I feel that it should be done, how different means should be directed, and I will insist on it after these parliamentary elections. I think we need to change some things, that those funds that are being said to be given, that these resources come in time, that we solve these problems, and that our people in our rural areas, in these municipalities, such as Svrljig, Bela Palanka, Kursumli and other such municipalities of Sokobanja, Književić, to provide these municipalities, in these villages, in time of these subsidies, that there is no delay, or that there is no other God, that we say something, and so we don't. Once again, I think a lot of things that have been done are very positive, the results are visible as to infrastructure, roads, railways, airports, I'm always and here's another one. Here at the assembly I was talking about a problem at the airport, which was in very bad shape by 2014, here we now have close to maybe 400,000 passengers, even more during the covid, during the crown. Which means that something that goes forward, that it's a airport, someone is complaining about why it was given to the state of Serbia to boss. Turns out we were right, it turns out that the airport and the people there have security, there's a number of lines, and that's how we have to keep going. In that part of our Serbia in Nis, Svrljig, Književci, they are now working, highways are being completed, highways are being made, now it is going to be one road from Nis to Pristina. It's something you need, it's something you need, it's going to connect two people, two countries, it's something, it's what I mean specifically on that highway is important to all of us. The economy, the investment in the economy, the opening of new jobs, I'm sure it will continue. I now say and call on the competent ministry to, in the next period, find the possibility that every municipality where no factory has arrived, that we must find ways along with the local administration, to provide in these municipalities 150, 250, 350 new jobs, normally with the support of the state. One of those municipalities is Srlig, and I'd like investors to come there because it's near Nis. One problem is that by 2000 and after 2000, all these companies that were state-owned, or companies where there was a working self-government, these companies went bankrupt, some tycoons came in by 2001, 2002 and 2003, all of them resold and at the end of this company, we now have no free land where we can call investors. That's what we're going to do now, because we have a hint, where when Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic said back five or six days, there are 92 new investors who will invest in Serbia. I am sure that among those 92 investors, there will be those who will come to us in Srlig, will come to Bela Palanko, will come to Kursumli, will come to Književec, Sokobanje and all those municipalities where we need work, where tomorrow when there are more interested companies, more companies, that there will be more competition, normally, and that there will be an opportunity for a higher salary. All the things I've just said, I just wanted to say because I think and once again I have to say that all of our citizens of Serbia living in the country, living from the village, living in southeastern Serbia, living in other parts of Serbia, should follow and see their sense of what is done, what is done, that this will continue in the same way in the next period. And that's just the policy led by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government, who, along with us here in the Assembly, led this country. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished friends, citizens of Serbia, I urge you once again to vote together, on April 3rd, to vote best, and the best are here now. The best led this country from 2014 to 2022 and will continue afterwards. It is a policy led by Serbia's President, the current, hopefully future, elected president of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic and his government. Once again, go out, vote, vote for the best, and vote for everything worth it, and those who talk about all the bad things, those who bring up the negative things, let them talk about them, we know only one thing, the result of the work is a criterion for everything, the result is visible. Once again, the best, lived the Serbian village, lived the Serbian church, lived Serbia and lived the best.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-1.u12384	Thank you. He has a word, Natasa Mihailović Vacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-1.u12385	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. Since this is the last session in this session, I would like to refer to the fact that this assembly of parliament has achieved significant results in a very short period of time. We have passed several extremely important laws that improve the development of democratic society, improve already acquired rights and freedoms. We've brought in a series of incentive measures to help citizens in this difficult pandemic time. We have done all this, passed numerous laws without an emergency procedure, which I find very important, because it was one of the regular items on the work of parliament in the European Commission's annual progress report on Serbia towards the EU. Not to mention, for example, the adoption of an ethical code that gives instructions and rules of conduct that certainly promotes political culture and dialogue, which requires that we oppose with respect and arguments in the political struggles of those who think differently instead of treating political inexperiences as enemies. Tensions and social divisions do not contribute to anyone, at least to the citizens and to what they expect of us and for which they have given us confidence over the past period. One of the most significant results is the improvement of the electoral conditions achieved through inter-party dialogue. A serious shift has been made in improving election rules, which best confirms the decision of opposition parties that boycotted the past elections to participate actively in the upcoming elections. Since the beginning of the process, the SDPS has made a major contribution with our ruling coalition partners and no moment has the ruling coalition that has shown exceptional responsibility and will to improve this process, we have not lost sight of it at any time, this is exactly the need to reach agreement and improve the electoral process by restoring citizens' confidence in the electoral system and improving it to those conditions when Serbian citizens will be able to vote on equal terms as EU citizens do. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia in the whole process has contributed to achieving a solution acceptable to both the government and the opposition. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia was and remains a responsible, dedicated and constructive partner, contributing and contributing to the achievement of good results seen in the better quality of our citizens' daily lives. There's still a lot of work ahead of us, just because they've achieved significant results. It's important that we continue at an even faster pace. The citizens we are talking to are exactly what we expect from us, and I thank all of them on behalf of the SDPS for their expressed confidence and for the support they will show us to continue the work we have started together. One of the results of the inter-party dialogue is certainly the formation of the Election Supervisory Board, which was first formed in 2019 in the eyes of the previous elections. The existence of this Supervisory Board became in itself questionable, practically the moment we formed an independent Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, once RRA, today REM and perhaps it was one of the reasons why the Supervisory Board was not formed since 2001 until 2019 and this was a reminder, was one of the results of the first round of inter-party dialogue in 2019. The competences of the Supervisory Board are very similar to those of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, which may have been one of the reasons why this body was not formed from 2001 to 2019. Anyway, we're done with that job. Now, the Election Supervisory Board is, in practice, a third body with the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media and the Monitoring Body for the Monitoring of Elections made up of opposition parties involved in inter-party dialogue and representatives of REM. So it is the third body to take care of the media monitoring of the election campaign and the representation of all participants in the election process in the media programmes and in the print media. I will remind the citizens only of some of the powers of the Supervisory Board that we choose today. Therefore, monitoring the pre-election activity and pointing to any irregularities in the conduct of political parties, candidates and other participants in the electoral process, controlling the handling of public information funds in the application of the provisions of this law relating to the provision of equal conditions for the presentation of voters and candidates from the electoral lists, proposing measures to respect the equality of candidates in the presentation of their programmes, addressing the public in order to protect the moral integrity and personality of candidates, warning of political parties, administration bodies, candidates and public notice agents who are obstructing election campaigns and jeopardising the equality of the rights of all candidates. There's still a few responsibilities. But what is much more important to say at this point is that it is the third body to deal with media control and monitoring of the election campaign. It is up to us that in some future period, it is a job that this assembly has not completed, it is a change of a whole set of media laws that will, in practice, strengthen the mechanisms of both REM and the Monitoring Board for Election Monitoring, since none of these bodies now have the authority or authority to punish broadcasters and those who violate the Information Act and do not care about the equal representation of all participants in the electoral process. So public expectations from the Elections Supervisory Board in 2019, when we formed that body were certainly greater than their jurisdiction. As long as we do not strengthen in some future period, as I said, these focus mechanisms will certainly be on respecting the laws of all media, both electronic and printed and of course respecting their recommendations and binding instructions on reporting in the election campaign. All media, especially media public service, are obliged to provide equal representation of the results and programmes of all participants in the electoral process and to inform and inform citizens daily about the ways in which they can exercise their voting rights. In line with the amendments and additions to the election laws, the media are also obliged to publish tariffs for their political advertising before the start of the election campaign, to respect binding instructions and recommendations, and the media public service is required to establish a corresponding distribution key in relation to political advertising on RTS and to adopt a self-regulation system to ensure an adequate time of broadcasting to express the views and opinions of all political actors participating in the electoral process. So it is clear from this that the Election Supervisory Board, which we choose today, will have much more work to do than it was in 2020 in the elections. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will give full support to the proposed candidates in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-1.u12386	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-1.u12387	Thank you, dear Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Orlic. Since the proposer of what we are talking about today is the formal Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, at the very beginning I will say that we will, of course, vote in favour of this proposal. I'll tell you why we're voting. I agree with Mr Djukanovic and his opening exhibit when it comes to the inequality with which we are entering this election race with the opposition parties and we have talked about it many times before, but it is time for tonight, since the last session is repeated and we should draw the line and that the citizens of Serbia know it. So it is true that in each polling post, the opposition's representatives will have more controllers than the ruling coalition's parties, as they will be around two lists of the ruling coalition, or three and one presidential candidate, all other are representatives of the opposition. But also, no one at this point can, when we draw the line to call for protests in advance, say that the elections have been stolen, so I don't know who can do it right now after all the concessions that the ruling coalition has made towards the extraparliamentary parties. So no one, but absolutely no one in Serbia can question the legitimacy of parliamentary, city and presidential elections at this point after 3 April. I am fully convinced and the Socialist Party of Serbia is fully convinced that Serbian citizens will not vote for political flossules, political pamphlets, political marketing, and that it is not easy, we talked about this today during the afternoon, you can't just say -- political shopping and political purchasing of votes is that you give young people 16 to 29 years of age 100 euros, that's underestimating young people. I said today during the afternoon and I will repeat that - what they fear if they think votes can be bought, so they are certain winners of these elections, bearing in mind that only one of the leaders of the opposition has far more money than all of us and that, indeed, they can buy as many votes as it takes to win both presidential and city elections. Then what's with all the fear? It's something else, though. I would say it's a fear of the fact that they are aware that they are on the edges of Serbia's political scene. It's just, you know, when you don't have a program, when you don't have an idea, and you want to be there in public, then you have to say anything, then you give such a criticism for criticism to be there in public. I can't get political points on that anymore. So citizens vote for responsibility, seriousness, but citizens vote for decency. We now interpret decency in different ways, and we look differently at decency versus those that are part of the extraparliamentary opposition. The responsibility for the SPS is to get out of public discourse everything that's negative in order to have normal communication both during the campaign and here in the tide. On the other hand, decency means that the work for which you have taken responsibility you are doing honestly, honestly, and responsibly and that you are responsible for what has been done or what has not been done. In this sense, the ruling coalition has made a major shift ten years back on a political scene in Serbia in which absolutely no one was responsible for anything, and they were all guilty of something and there is no such thing when it comes to this ruling coalition, regardless of which political parties it comes from. Let me get back to the subject. So what we're talking about today... In fact, this Parliament is, I will repeat it for who knows which time, in this session and the symbol of both democracy and efficiency and transparency and the public in the work, and I think we have done a lot for these years and a half, with respect to all the circumstances, with respect to the fact that we are facing the greatest health challenge and that it has not been easy to do, but here we are present in the parliamentary benches and since March of the month we have been working and all the time we have worked. We asked the European Parliamentarians to come back in March to begin our talks. They told us then that they didn't want direct communication. We could have done it online just to have one continuity and not to be late in making certain conclusions, because we are objectively late in conclusions, and then finally that burden of responsibility belongs to us. We are carrying this cross and we bear this burden of responsibility that in the year when elections are ahead of the elections we are changing electoral legislation, which is not our responsibility, but the responsibility of European parliamentarians, I repeat, who have been called by the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Ivica Dacic, in March of the month to begin the talks of the second phase of inter-party dialogue. If we couldn't do it directly, we could have done a lot of meetings online. Much more important meetings were made online in the period behind us, so they succeeded. So we could have done it, but we didn't. I say this for one simple reason, so that responsibility would not be at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has managed to push through two significant processes during the previous period of time. I mean, first of all, to change the Constitution and it is a very important area, because if we talk about the rule of law and if we go back that every report of the European Commission that we had in the previous time period has always ended with the fact that there is no political will in Serbia to start the rule of law and to change the rule of law, here we are, in part, and not in words we are prepared to do so. If you are talking about the rule of law, then it is logical that you start from the constitution itself and start from what our constitutional obligations are, which was not done by those before us, and those who call themselves the pro-European opposition, and the extra-parliamentary parties are, rather than, if they are already pro-European-oriented, campaigning to leave Serbia on the European path, they were campaigning against. Why not? Because they viewed this campaign as a campaign against the ruling coalition, against SNS, SPS and Alexander Vukic. Very simple. They thought it was chaos and delirium for the ruling coalition. So, you lose some basic postulates, you lose your ideology. You came to power on the wings of that Europe in 2000. All the time, you are reportedly in favour of Serbia's entry into the EU, for Serbia's full membership in the EU, you are all the time in favour of talks with European parliamentarians, and when it comes to concreteising, you are gone, but yet European parliamentarians have been more favored by this non-parliamentary opposition than we have, which we have conducted since the beginning to the end. So, with public debates, with all the consent received by the Venice Commission, the talks held by the president of the National Assembly together with the Minister of Justice, the chairman of the Constitutional Affairs Committee, the consent of professional associations, the full agreement of all the relevant factors and despite what we have done, we have, I have to repeat this by who knows which time, all of them 45 minutes available for talks with the European Parliamentarians, and the extra-parliamentary parties from three to four hours in the morning, and in the EU headquarters in Belgrade. I asked them a question, when you're already calling the extraparliamentary parties that worked against the referendum, ask them if they've changed their ideology, whether they're still pro-European or not? So more significant processes is one process. The second process is certainly inter-party dialogue and it is good that we have finally completed this inter-party dialogue, at the initiative of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Ivica Dacic, in agreement with the President of the Republic, on two lines, that we have heard suggestions and proposals and those of opposition extra-parliamentary parties who wanted to talk to European parliamentarians and those who did not want to talk to European parliamentarians. I must say that this conversation with those who did not want to talk to European parliamentarians was started in March of the month and that there was a continuity and that it was not so easy, but still a degree of political culture and a degree of political tolerance were shown and I would say a high degree of political responsibility, because there were discussions, among other things, on national and state issues, because before the president submitted the report to Parliament on Kosovo and Metohija, he spoke first and with outside-parliament parties, because he also wanted to introduce them to the current situation in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. It is good that we at least try to reach consensus on these important issues with this part of the opposition, because there are many political parties on Serbia's political scene, but there is one Serbia. So this second process was started in 2019, and it was on the initiative of those who didn't want to participate in the process and who made the process a farce and all the time fooled the public by wanting to make themselves a victim and nothing more. So, not to participate in the elections, but to make a sacrifice of themselves and to try through European parliamentarians to reach power and privilege without a choice. That's the only thing he can't do. This is the only thing that is not possible, because democracy in Serbia is being held in the elections and only elections can change Serbia's political course. We talked during the first phase of the inter-party dialogue and they did not participate in the conversation. I'm referring to this precisely because of the topic we're talking about today. They did not participate in this conversation because they had an attitude – 42 demands or boycotts. I wouldn't say here, but a co-worker found out that we had moved because now the parties who boycotted the election are participating in the election. Well, we didn't do this because of the parties that boycotted the elections, we just showed democracy to listen to suggestions and suggestions, and they don't participate in the elections, not because they're eligible for election conditions... You think they know what election conditions are? Do you think they know what it is that we adopted? They have no idea, nor do they care. They take part in these elections because they have no way out of the political situation they are in, and that's why I talked a little bit about the issue of responsibility. They're trying to hide behind other people to save their capital and be present in politics. There's no one else. So, as for certain opposition political parties, they insisted in 2019 that the Supervisory Board be formed, although I will remind you, in 2016, Mr Martinovic was there, correct me if I am wrong, in 2016 the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia sent a letter to all parliamentary groups to submit proposals for the Supervisory Board. No parliamentary group has submitted a proposal. So as interesting to them as the Supervisory Board was at that point. So, you were just looking for a reason that we allegedly wouldn't accept and they turn out to be victims, boycotting elections. If the boycott succeeds, they have six months to make some kind of scene on the streets and cause extraordinary parliamentary elections. Since all this has failed, they have no way, they have no way out of the political situation they are in and must participate in the elections. How and in what way, I said today during the afternoon and I would no longer, really, about them. A colleague is right, three bodies control the media and media representation in Serbia. We have an independent body that we have formed and that makes up six REM representatives plus six representatives of the extra-parliamentary opposition. We have the Supervisory Board, which we're talking about today and which has, I won't be reading the jurisdiction right now, and our colleague Natasha was talking about, so they're about the same as the authorities and the independent body, and we have REM. We have both foreign and domestic observers and all those we've accepted. If, despite all this control, someone suspects even representation in the media, so I don't know what else we need to do. The point is, in fact, that we talk about the media for the first time in 2019. That's the first time we've talked about election conditions. Why didn't we talk about the media in 2011 when Verica Barac compiled a report on who owns every second of the media with a national frequency? We were part of the ruling coalition back then, it's true, but we voted against amendments and additions to the Public Information Act, because we thought they were a blow to objective and professional journalism. We were against it, and we openly said that we did not want to preserve anyone's character and act in such a way. What is the need to deal with the issue of the media only in 2019, in the way you understand? So how do they understand? Here, we continued the talks at the beginning of this term and we said – there are absolutely no problems, we are for equal representation in the media, but this equal representation in the media means debate, it means to present the list holders or people on election lists, the programme, certain thematic debates, but also people who will be guaranteed to implement the programme, so let the citizens decide on 3 April. So, as many thematic debates as possible. No, they view equal media representation as an editorial policy of the media. That it is true, he said, in addition to the proposal for an agreement they gave to the European parliamentarians, in which they sought it, he said -- the selection of an independent editorial information programme for public service RTS and RTV, which will be proposed by representatives of journalists associations of members of the National Body. It says option two – that three times a week the representatives of the opposition who reached an agreement appear on their own in the shows broadcast on the first RTS programmes, 30 minutes in the period from 18.30 to 19.00 hours, three times a week equal to the number of representatives of the government and the opposition that reached the agreement to participate in 90 minutes of debateal character shows, which will be broadcast on the first RTS and RTS programmes in the time of 21.00 hours. The morning program, that's certainly understood. Very interesting, to provide, says - so-called. to independent media, media media and organisations, where they mean, specifically, BETA, FONET, Istinomer, Krik, CINS, BIRN, "Time" twice a week for 30 minutes to broadcast their independent content on RTS and RTS programs on prime time. That was the proposal of one part of the opposition, the official proposal of one part of the opposition. Now, you tell me, is this even representation, or is this the need to deal with the media's editorial policy again? This, according to the SPS, is a far-reaching and diametric opposite of equal representation in the media. I think most of those opposition men who were sitting with us at the table with European parliamentarians would accept the proposal of the European parliamentarians, but she shouldn't have, because of Dragan Gilas, she shouldn't because of his media, because his media would characterise that part of the opposition as someone who co-operates with the authorities. Otherwise, if we're talking about media representation, I'll remind you, in 2020, the second-by-representation elections were parties that did not participate in the elections, the Alliance for Serbia. This is the official REM report. The letter we received from TV, as the president of the Assembly sent letters to all broadcasters with national frequency, was such an agreement, we received a letter from RTV, which says they have three or four political emissions and that if we were to analyse, the participation of opposition representatives is greater than the representatives of the ruling coalition. At the very end, I am sorry, and I think that the Supervisory Board that we are forming today will be able to implement something that we, Professor Zarko Obradovic and I, in agreement with party President Ivica Dacic, have implemented in the SPS platform, which is not correctly understood and accepted during the dialogue, and it is as far as political parties themselves decide on the content of their electoral messages, taking into account the respect of the Law on Information and Respect for Human and Minority Rights of Citizens and that any advertising video, message, journalistic text or otherwise announced message by political parties or media during an election campaign that uses hate speech, including children of selected public officials or candidates in the election lists of political parties. I think the Supervisory Board that we're choosing today has this obligation to at least try, can't implement this anymore, but try to follow the goal that we wanted to achieve by proposing this in the SPS platform. In voting day, we'll support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-1.u12388	Thank you. The word comes from MP Aleksandar Mirkovic, the last authorised representative of the parliamentary groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-1.u12389	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow Members of Parliament, I think it is difficult to speak after Mr Milicevic for the simple reason that my speech was also somewhere concise to look back on what Mr Milicevic was talking about, but I'm going to try something different now. You will all agree on your own that in some past period, we have talked about it on several occasions, and we have shown the need for our society that all those people who are not sitting in parliament today finally get into a situation and say what their programme is and what they want to offer citizens. However, although the practical elections are ahead of us, so April 3rd will come quickly, we have not heard a single proposal today from that part of the opposition what they would do better in our country, what better they would do in Belgrade or what kind of vision they have for our country's development. The only thing we've heard so far is that they've run for three people who will be the bearers of their lists and that three people have to come to power. However and in what way, whether or not they will have the support of citizens, it does not matter to them. They simply told the citizens that on April 3rd they were already celebrating victory, and they told us from the SNS not to accidentally think that we should declare the election victory. Things are very simple and we have been very often in a situation where from those people who led our country until 2012 or 2013 we get the sharpest criticism, but never those criticisms were argued. Now, all I'm interested in is, if the whole program is all about us hating Alexander Vukic, what are they going to offer to the citizens by 3 April, and what can the citizens expect from them if they happen to come to power? What we've heard from them so far is very interesting. So their mayoral candidate, a certain Jankovic, said the first job he would do from the mayor's post was to move the monument to Stefan Nemanja. So we came into a situation where for the first time in history, a candidate for mayor starts his campaign by knocking something down or something. We've come into a situation where you don't hear any ideas, you don't hear a single program, you don't have a vision at all how Belgrade could develop, and you don't say that you're not even expert on it. It's amazing that a man who says to himself that he won't be able or that he can't say for sure how he would run Belgrade City, because he knows he doesn't know the problem of the city itself, then he tells you that it's all like that, but he's still going to make a team. How and how we didn't get the answer today. But what's interesting, on the other hand, is that there is also a former mayor in the opposition's ranks. Of course, it's about Dragan Gilas, who says to himself that he was a very successful mayor, so we're just wondering why he didn't run and why he's not carrying some list? If they are so sure of themselves, in their victory and support they have, it is simply amazing that he, as president of that party, did not run for office or simply realize that citizens do not want him and remember well what he did to Belgrade while he was in power. It is also interesting to talk today about the Supervisory Board, we are talking about election conditions, we have heard very constructive discussions, but somewhere I am convinced that this part of the opposition will again find some excuse for its election debacle that awaits them. The laws we have passed here, and even this Supervisory Board that we are discussing today, I will agree with my colleague Djukanovic, that this is the greatest degree of democracy, and that this clearly shows how much the ruling majority is prepared and aware of their results behind us, so we absolutely don't care what election conditions are, because when you have results behind you and when you have a clear plan, a clear vision, you have nothing to be afraid of. The average salary during the DS and the average profit that is today, we have spoken many times, but I think it is the best indicator where Serbia was eight years ago and where Serbia is today. If you take a look at any aspect of our society, you'll see only progress. When you have such a situation that people who were able to lead our country used it only to make extra profits for themselves, and they never cared about how citizens live, or if they have jobs, such people today want to return to power. It is clear to everyone that they care neither about Belgrade nor Serbia, but that they only care about personal interests. How this Supervisory Board will function and what the entire campaign will look like by 3 April, it will be very interesting for the simple reason that each of them has a specific task and deals in a specific way. Whoever from that part of the opposition shows up or appears in the media under their control has only one message, which is that the SNS will not win and must not win the next election. Now if we look at it from another angle, what kind of message is being sent to citizens, and what do they want to say to people who don't think like them? What do they think of us and how much insult they're able to make to our account, we're used to it, but I wonder what kind of message you're sending to the citizens when you're not giving each one of their voices today? Anyone who would vote for SNS has been targeted on your part. I have also followed the events in some other parties that portray themselves as some new democratic party or other part of the opposition, and in these parties you see nothing but naked hatred for Alexander Vukic and the SNS. If we wanted to talk about what we did, there wouldn't be enough time to end it in one day. At every step both Belgrade and Serbia are developing further, from highways, schools, hospitals, health homes, at every step you can see our country's progress, but unfortunately, some people are seriously bothered by this progress. This progress and these results bother them because it is their defender that they never, ever allow them to return to power again. If you look at the situation in Belgrade, where they have defined all their forces and say they will break these elections, I cannot remember until 2012 or 2013 while Dragan Gilas was mayor, that a single big project in our city was developing or happening. I can't remember any of the factories that Dragan Gilas brought in, except projects that allowed him to get richer himself. Mr. Milicevic also talked about representation in the media. He also talked about representation in the media, about what their demands were. Yes, it's amazing that today when the opposition's entire program comes down to somehow sorting out the media in our country. When they say that they would feast and have to have secured terms, you've never heard of them before what in those terms they would tell the citizens. So you have their fellow Lutovac who says: “Behold, I have been invited to the show, but now I have a dilemma about whether to go or not. If I don't leave, it will be that I didn't show up, and if I leave, it means that I supported the ruling majority." Now that you've read something like that, you can't understand at all what that man was going to say, but you can clearly see how much they're calculating and how much they just want to make a sacrifice of themselves. That was also the situation with the boycott. So they didn't boycott the last election because election conditions weren't good. These are the same electoral conditions as when they were in power, so the same, there's no difference. They boycotted the past election because they were aware that they would experience a debacle in the election. Today, when they have requested two fronts in an inter-party dialogue to meet them alive and today, when all this is fulfilled, they now have a second mantra and will participate in these elections, but they forbid us as representatives of the SNS to accidentally or think we will win those elections. What's specifically opening now as a question is what can we expect on April 3rd? I've talked about it a few times. If we are already getting statements today announcing that around 18 hours on April 3rd they will declare victory in Belgrade, if they are already announcing that their candidate, Ponoš, will enter the second round of presidential elections, what can we expect that day, and how will their behaviour be when polling stations close? I've discussed and warned about such things several times from this place. Warn for the simple reason that they are ready for anything and will consciously want to cause chaos, they will consciously wish to repeat on the streets those ugly images as when they set this building on fire, because they themselves are aware that with the results of the SNS thanks to the responsible policy of President Aleksandr Vukic they cannot cope. Their candidates, including Ponesh, whom I mentioned earlier all my chances while they were in power, used only to ruin everything they've come up with. About melting tanks, about breaking battalions about destroying our army has already been said, but it is simply amazing that such a man with such a biography today tends to be president of Serbia and it is amazing that people who are against Serbia, against Serbian President Alexander Vukic, are quickly united and is it from our region, is it somewhere else. In any case, they find each other quickly, quickly understand each other, and support each other. The thing that is symptomatic and can worry all of us is that Marinika Tepic, who signed a declaration in this parliament that wanted Serbia and the Serbian people to be declared genocide, says to herself that she is the future prime minister. I am now asking the citizens of Serbia -- what would happen to our country if Ponos were our president who destroyed our army on the mission and Marinika Tepic were the prime minister who believes that the Serbs committed genocide? What is interesting and what also highlights their politics is petty, but it shows how much they take our country's policy and development unseriously is the fact that this woman said that when they come to power, the doctor's salary will be 1,000 euros. I don't know if she's ever wondered how much the doctor's salary is today, if she's checked that data, and if she's aware herself that she's shown by just that one statement how much she doesn't even know what she's talking about, she's just criticizing for criticism. For Serbian citizens to know what the 2011 average specialist doctor was 609 euros. So, those people who were in power in 2011, and are predicating today to return to power, when they were able to do something for doctors, they appreciated their efforts and work and the pawning of 609 euros. Today, the doctor's salary is 1,020 euros, which would mean that Marinika Tepic would take the 20 euros from the specialist doctor. I'm saying this for the simple reason that it's already become a little bit of arduous and boring to listen to all sorts of lies every day and every level, listen to all kinds of attempts to fabricate an affair somewhere, because you yourself are aware that everything you did while you were in power, the citizens will not forget about you, nor will they. Someone here said election conditions won't determine the winner in the next election. I absolutely agree with that, but I also agree with that theory that these conditions never existed in our country. I remember when we came to power what it looked like and what obstructions were made by the people of the Democratic Party wherever they could, but if we just look at the fact that in the next period of all attacks, Alexander Vukic will be targeted and that they will not talk about what they offer to the citizens, but just stick to the blind hatred of that man, then the question arises – why do they need such changed electoral conditions and what do they advocate? Today, we also held a session of the Belgrade City Assembly where opposition representatives in front of the Assembly, who receive 10,000 dinars per month and have not entered that building, nor have they appeared in the meeting for the last three years, and we were able to hear that all the projects that are being implemented today by the city of Belgrade will stop. I can't imagine a politician like that being able to lead today, and I've witnessed it day and day. It's just unthinkable for you to want to tear down your city just to get revenge on who? Citizens. This misrepresentation of Marinkova Bar or Borce is a picture and opportunity of their government for 12 years both in Belgrade and Serbia. For them, there was only a strict center of the city or what they would say was "a circle of two" and they were not interested in anything else. It was hard for the mayor at the time to walk to the Eggs, to walk to Borca, to go and look at Zemun Field and see what problems the citizens had there, but it was no problem for him to use his position and influence and abuse. You know, when someone enters politics with 70,000 euros, the used car "Sab" and the woman's house, and in 10 years, the authorities come out with 60 million euros scattered around the white world, you have to wonder how and how the man got to that wealth? People here have talked about media and media representation, but most importantly it's not as interesting to him as the media as how interesting his advertising space is and how interesting those seconds are. The most obvious example of corruption is when you use state television to co-operate with your private company and thus provide yourself with 619m euros. Because of this and because of such things, citizens will never again provide support, nor will they give them the opportunity to lead the local community, let alone Belgrade and Serbia. This is what I'm gonna end up with. Dear citizens of Serbia, on April 3rd, when you go out to the elections, I invite you only to identify who you will vote for by just asking yourself where our country was in 2011, 2012, 2013, and where is Serbia today? I'll call you and just remember all the promises we made, but follow the program and hear what we have to offer you for the next period. All we've done so far is guarantee that SNS and President Aleksandar Vukic's policy and in the coming period will work only in the interests of the Serbian citizens and that we will all together as one great team of our country will make an even better place to live for all our children and generations to come. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-1.u12390	Thank you, Mr. Mirkovic. We're going to go to the word log-in list. Milija Miletic has already spoken, so the word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-1.u12391	The Supervisory Board is one of those results of inter-party dialogue and negotiations that led to our having, thank God, extremely good electoral conditions compared to what we had before that dialogue entered. In order for Marxists to say - social development dialectics can be strange, and Christians say that the strange ways of the Lord are, and so this assembly meeting that was at the beginning has been challenged and that not the best solution also shows that the president himself and the president of Serbia immediately after the election of this call said that early parliamentary elections will soon be. So, this assembly that has been challenged so many times, and I have challenged it myself and often criticized it, will enter history as a meeting that has given extremely favourable and good electoral conditions for those participating in the elections. It is a call that is without obligation to do so, listening to people and protests of people who disagreed with what was voted here, withdrawing the Water Act, the Expropriation Act, amended the Law on Referendum. So it's strange that this synergy that many have disputed will in fact give in the history of our electoral legislation such good conditions as were long gone in this space. It's a good thing and it's something that needs to be known and it should be known that what some SNS colleagues consider incorrect and unnecessary concessions to the opposition is not so, because SNS is so powerful and so overwhelming in our society that despite all these benefits it has given as a ruling party, our opposition is hardly able to have a chance to change something radical in these elections. No matter what marketing they'll all say, they're one step ahead of destroying this power. All of us who know the situation on the ground know that's not the case. It is not because our opposition parties from both the left and the right and the proselyst opposition, and to great harm and misfortune and our sovereign organisations and parties are not ready to do something that is important and that is normal for the ruling parties not to work, but it is not normal for anyone in the opposition to notice it. We can give ideal electoral conditions, we can change the media image of Serbia, but if we keep this party model that has ruled Serbia for 30 years, no matter what ideological colors you put on that model, we will have a problem, because such parties, and these are all parties on our political scene, whether they are in power or in opposition, whether they have 750,000 members or 500 members, all of them reflect one Bolshevik model of democratic centralism. The model in which you have an unimpeached leader around whom a cult of personalities is being created, you have a party army who obediently implements what has been decided on top of that party. That's not a good model. This model has led to an endemic corruption in our political system and has led people who have integrity, who are ready to fight for their ideas, to abandon politics, and to advance those who are willing to listen to the leader, to support him, not to dispute his decisions. It is not a question for you in power, it is a question for us in the opposition, and that is a question for our entire society whether we will allow the space of political parties, without which parliamentary democracy does not work, to remain a place that the state does not regulate, but leaves it to some kind of wild west, where simply by decision of force, by corruption, by various occult games, it decides what our political system will look like. Unfortunately, on the political scene, we do not have any stronger, relevant political organisation that is ready to give up that model. And that's a big problem. I hope that some new council that comes, will continue to deal with electoral reforms, will realize that without this reform, all other reforms will become meaningless. In that sense, I think we've opened up a good path in this session, but that's just the first step. I hope that what the representatives of the government have often said is that electoral reform will continue, that it will be fulfilled. I hope that we will finally get the bill of elections where all legislative solutions concerning the electoral process will be one place, codified, and thus we will be able to adapt lies and faster the electoral system to what the social and state development of our country requires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-1.u12392	Right on the line, Alexander Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-1.u12393	Thank you. As you started your presentation, I thought we'd agree on everything. I am pleased that you, as the opposition's representative, notice really some good things that are useful and that will facilitate the opposition's functioning and this election process. I can't agree with you, first of all, that this congregation did have legitimacy or it didn't. He had a way. We talked about it more than once. It's not SNS' fault that part of the opposition boycotted this election. It's not SNS' fault they don't have citizens' support, so they're aware of it for a boycott. It's not our fault. I think it's in every opposition politician's interest to go to elections as often as possible, so I don't see the problem with having an election after only two years. If people are aware that they have support, I guess it's in the opposition's interest that the elections be as frequent as possible and that they win these elections and change this power as you say. The other thing that I disagree about, and it's a little bit more burning my ears, that categorization that people in SNS are blindly listening to someone, they're really not standing, and it's not appropriate. I don't think there's room to discuss it that way, especially to talk about someone making a cult personality. I think something like that is absolutely out of place. What I want to tell you is that citizens are the ones who recognize leaders, statesmen, or recognize a man who fights for their interests. So to separate it from that side, it's not a cult of personalities, but the citizens of Serbia in Aleksandar Vukic recognized a statesman who, after many years, has led Serbia in the right direction for many decades. That's why the support that Alexander Vucic has is so great, and that on April 3rd, the elections will once again confirm that the citizens see it all well, they recognize it all well, but above all, they appreciate the effort and the results that we have, which the SNS has, which Alexander Vukic has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-1.u12394	Thank you. The next on the list is Professor Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-1.u12395	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Orlic, the honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say that it is really hard to speak after our introduction and after Mr. Mirkovic. We'll probably all agree that this is going towards improving the democracy process in general. It is not true that there is no democracy in Serbia. Only one who does not know the processes in Serbia, who does not follow the world's reports, can say that. You heard the overlaps of democracy in Serbia, a European and world body where we stand in front of some European countries, but that's what colleagues have already talked about, so I have no intention. I have something to say since it's the last session. It was about the opposition, when the previous speaker, from the opposition, spoke. Let me tell him myself, thank him for sometimes coming to this congregation. He had the courage and the ability to come and say what he thought, and it's a great honor for him. I guess the circumstances of business, I don't get into it, kept him from being more often. It's right here that the dialogue is being conducted. The sooner, the better, the better. At work, business where we are, and also politically. That's what the people notice. It's about the process. However, the opposition did not act like that in general. We've been giving, here, my little advice here. No, they're boastful and full of themselves. So, for example, I don't have a problem with names to speak of, Professor Janko Veselinović, I often spoke of a tenant. Yes, gentlemen, the landlord. I didn't say that, I studied it, and the opposition was supposed to study it. You know who said that? Well, that's what the press just said on the 11th of December 2014. You know who the source is? Free Dalmatia. Seven Serbs who usurped Serbian apartments in Croatia and among them Janko Veselinovic usurped the apartment, and not the refugee, Milica Badže from Obrovec, on the street of Brace Kurjakovic. It's the opposition gentlemen, the truth, and when I deliver it, then I'm the fool, the sandwich boy, the credentials, making up a thousand things. That's the point. Democracy requires work, order and respect for procedure. That gentleman before, probably if he's a lawyer, and I've heard he's a lawyer, he knows it better than I do, but my smallness, along the way, follows the law, a 30-year history of the state, even more than rights, and the modern things that come to me. So, this is Janko Veselinović. Imagine, he's a criminal indictee, and he doesn't know, a law professor, that he can't handle it for this law. Look at the miracles, and when we told him here if it's true that he took that apartment, he's running out, he's probably going to the Obrovac to get back, etc. And to inform you, gentlemen of the opposition, and him, this gentleman, after seven years of calling here, has returned that apartment on the street of the Korjakovic brothers in Obrovec, number nine. And look at the wonders, got another one! Let him examine himself who gave him, and he is not a refugee. Parents down, restored, etc. There's no force in this data that can say they're not true. That's where we differ, which part of the opposition benches forgets what they said seven years ago. You see, someone's got to follow, someone's got a responsibility, and these are the members of the SNS and our president. When he said he was sleeping, you used to tell jokes, and we who've known him for 20 years know how to sacrifice ourselves for this country. I won't say how the predecessors left the country, but let me just say it on the edge of the sink. We haven't had any financials in 15 days. The consolidation was to be carried out, daily, daily, and we succeeded. Can you do better? Thank God it's better. They'd be better off sitting here, but what's going on? When we say you did, they run out the door. It's not working. There's no democracy. There's no work here. Gentlemen, being an MP is very difficult and responsible. That's what I'm saying to the opposition gentlemen who are watching. Not the stories, the results and the results. Do I, or do you, as a professor, give what I give in my workplace? Now, that's the point. Politics is, let's say, a contribution to the country. Then lies go, because some 20, 30 years didn't do anything, but he enjoyed the welfare of the state here. The younger generations are coming. I've been speaking to you as a professor since 1972. When I took my word, Stipe Mesic came to Kosovo Mitrovica yesterday. I didn't sleep tonight, because unlike most gentlemen, I know which man. That man was developing our common homeland. What if someone from here had come to Croatia now and stood for the secession there? The whole world would jump. That's the point. So, you see, in 1971, this Stipe Mesic, when I was a student and already started working in 1972, was punished for four years in prison. Do you know why, respected citizens? For breaking up our former homeland together. That's why. And, look, where did he come from? In Pristina. Do you know where the punishment lasted? I don't have a problem. I know the trees and rocks are coming from next door. Well, in Leskovac. Let him say how he went to that prison and why he hasn't shaved since. Here, I don't have a problem saying that. So, you see, someone has to go to the beginning. He's having a bit of a break in Yugoslavia, now Serbia. Look at the wonders, and his wife's a Serbian in the house! That's the point. It's not right to say false things. Gentlemen of the opposition, we will be here from the Serbian Progressive Party if it takes a day-night watch, not as MPs, but as workers, but we will always try the truth. Although it is difficult to get to the truth in philosophical terms, because if we close it then there is no science, there is no philosophy. Therefore, on account of the opposition MPs, I take off his hat for coming, which has worked harder than all those in the opposition. That's what I have to say, because they escaped from this house. While I'm at Stipe Mesic, he's attacking our president, you saw, and Serbia, and not Serbs broke Yugoslavia. Here's Tudjman's quote. Look, respected citizens, these are Tudjman's quotes: "It could have been without war, but Croatia didn't want it, we estimated that only by war can we gain Croatia's independence. “ Do you know when he said that? At Ban Jelačić Square, Zagreb, 24.05.1992, Vecernji list Zagreb since 25.05. That's the point. Let's move on. You heard who Janko Bobetko is. I'll never speak in my mind. I'll follow the sources. It's a general of the Croatian army. Do you know what he said? He says: “Serbia without war would not allow us to gain independence. “ Next, “it was clear that we would not fight our country unless we had a weapon for it. “ Do you know who said that? Janko Bobetko, in Zagreb in 1996, his book “All My Battles, ” page 4. Gentlemen of the opposition, you must read it, so you will not accuse Alexander Vukic and SNS of waging war and Serbia, and I know who Stipe Mesic met with in Kosovo and Metohija, and that is what the opposition should pay for. I also know who went to Pula and talked back there for six months. When it comes to country, gentlemen of the opposition, we must all be together. If we have the same opinion, we don't have to, thank God, but we're going to have a dialogue. The dialogue must be based on the truthfulness of the facts and that is criticism. Everything else, gentlemen, is a criticism. This isn't good. And what do you suggest? Nothing. We know that very well. Allow me a few more sentences. You know who Warren Zimerman, former ambassador to Belgrade. You know what he said? I quote: “I failed to convince Tudjman and Bobetka to give up the war option in August 1991. “ What do you say now, Mr. Veselinović, Mr. Ponos, Mr. Gilas, Mr. Wolfe Jeremiah? "Tudjman then admitted to me that the general war on JNA and the Chetnic separatists began. When I suggested that Tudjman consider another variant, giving autonomy to Serbs, and thus rejecting the war option, Tudjman refused any further discussion on the subject. “ Complete quote, Warren Zimerman, “Selecting a disaster”, in Zagreb in 1996, page 25. What do you say now, Mr. Gilas? What do you say now, Mr. Wolf Jeremiah? And you accuse the Wolf, not only of accusing, but of lying every day. Never in history, may a gentleman of historians come, meet wherever he wants with them, never again has any ruler of Serbia been attacked more than Alexander Vukic. I know during Milosevic because I was a witness in The Hague, his last, he was attacked, but not by internal forces so much. He is more than external, satanization was performed by him, his families, Serbs, etc., and now the Satanization of Mr. Vukic and his family. That's not history from the Tribals. Gentlemen historians have known since Tribali was dated. Let's move on now. So much for Janko Veselinović, a resident, and no wonder he filed that criminal charges, because he doesn't know what the court is, we asked him here when he was, and he's a lawyer. It's not enough to have a calling, it's something to know. Not only politics, but God needs his professions. Let's move on, when it comes to Mr. Gilas, I still have some things to do, don't be angry, it's the last session, so let the citizens of Belgrade assess whether I'm lying or telling the truth. Gilas has been Belgrade's worst mayor since Belgrade exists. Its development, the opposition gentlemen, was not at all interested in Belgrade. That's not what I'm saying. That's what I'm saying. You know who said that? In 2009, believe it or not, former American ambassador. So, he said, to quote him, "Gilas told me that his plan for Belgrade is only marketing, false promises, not real," finished the quote. Dear citizens, that's why it's 619 million, so it's on 69 accounts in 17 countries, and let it spit tonight on Alexander Vukic and on SNS and on SNS MPs and on the ministries, but the people see the results and the truth. I will now say only three, four things for Belgrade's citizens to say whether I am lying or telling the truth. Well, when the former ambassador of the United States said that, and I'm about to give examples. So for Dragan Gilas the construction of the National Museum for 13 years, whether it was just marketing, false promises, and for Alexander Vukic, judge the respected Belgraders, then reality. Isn't that right, gentlemen of the opposition? Come here and say yes or not. Let's move on. So for Dragan Gilas the construction of the Contemporary Art Museum in Belgrade was just marketing, i.e. a false promise for 16 years, and for Alexander Vukic the reality, you are my witnesses, respected Belgraders, respected citizens of Serbia. Let's move on. So for Gilas the building of the temple of St. Sava on Vracar was for many years only marketing, false promises, and for Alexander Vukic, judge gentlemen, reality. Today it is the most beautiful Orthodox temple in the world. Is that right or not? Now, that's the problem that citizens see, and they don't see the opposition, either blinded by hate or I don't know what, and then they come back to hate us. No, you'll never hear it from the SNS. This is where we're gonna be, we're gonna go get coffee wherever you want, but they're getting away. Because they're lying. There's no lie here. It's been a while. The people see the truth. Let's move on. So for Gilas the construction of the monument to Stefan Nemanja was just marketing, a false promise, and for Alexander Vukic the reality. You, respected citizens of Serbia, are witnesses. Look at the wonders, respected opposition gentlemen, of the four academics of the Serbian Academy of Sciences who said they did not recognise Kosovo as being part of the Republic of Serbia, one reported today, again, President Vucica criticises, in 86 years. I'm telling him, Mr. Academy, for years, you've been spilling fog from an academic chair and artists, fog in politics. You boast on October 5th, and you see who broke Yugoslavia. On October 5th, just one sentence to quote, a representative of the US CIA for Serbia said, quoting, "October 5th was a successful, successful mix-up of America's elections," the quote concluded. Isn't that right, gentlemen of the opposition? So as soon as you do, Mr. Academyman? I will now tell you what someone mentioned today – Nikola Tesla. In 1892, he, as you know, came here to our students in Belgrade and said, quote: "Behold and see, I am a Serb who stayed across the sea, where I do research. So stay and spread the glory of Serbia throughout the world," finished the quote. That's what the great Nikola Tesla said, Serbian and worldly. Let's move on. So for Dragan Gilas building monuments, we said, and for this monument this academic is even worse than Goran Markovic, it's terrible. So for Dragan Gilas, the construction of "Beograd on Water" was just marketing. You know how much for him, 14 years, and for Alexander Wolf's reality. Today, "Belgrade on Water" is the largest and most beautiful construction site in this part of Europe, for the sake of knowledge and behaviour. So for Dragan Gilas, the reconstruction and revitalisation of "Smederevo" was just marketing and an old iron gathering, and for Aleksandr Vukic, you see, let the workers say so also the citizens of Belgrade. So for Dragan Gilas, the arrangement of the Republic Square was just marketing and a false promise, and for Alexander Vukic, you see, reality and banned every start in this country. So for Dragan Gilas the construction of the Belgrade-Novi Sad railway for years was just marketing, and for Alexander Vukic the reality. You, respected citizens of Serbia, are witnessing whether it is true or not. So for Dragan Gilas, building the House of Health in Borca, where candidates for mayor of Belgrade make fun of the citizens of Borca and Palilula and Kotec, where I live, was only marketing, for years false promises, and for Alexander Vukic the reality. You, respected citizens of Borce, respected citizens of Palilu, especially Kotec, are witnessing it, and not only that, there is also gas going through all the streets, there will soon be that, and the sewerage is already part of it. I could only count for Belgrade by tomorrow, but I won't. That's enough of that. Dear Belgraders, respected citizens of Serbia, to see what they were called only false promises for Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Janko Veseinovic, and I don't know what they were called, and for Alexander Vukic, they were only a reality. Now allow me a few sentences, you warn me, Vice President, when I have to finish, but let me say something about Zdravko Posh. You heard that Zdravko Ponos was run for president of the Republic of Serbia, as Chief of Staff of the Army he was executed for the Army of Serbia, so executed that he was denied by President Boris Tadic, and he has been repeated three times these days. You know who accepted it? Guess, the citizens know that, so the Wolf of Jeremic. So who's going to do the other one? The Wolf of Jeremiah. Every member of Serbia's army today who sees and listens to the red of shame when Serbia's Army rating today gives Zdravko Ponos. Is it true, respected citizens of Serbia? Why? Because, among other things, Poš was standing calmly in front of NATO lieutenants, while the brave Serb army extradited to The Hague tribunal. Is it true, gentlemen of the Serbian Army and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? He promised the US senator that Serbia's military would cut from 62,000 to 27,000, and he did. Is it true, Mr. Posh, or not? Let's move on. Anyone who thought as a patriot in the Serbian Army was expelled from the Serbian Army. You heard of General Stupar last night, who is the legend of the Serb army. The pride, gentlemen and respected citizens, retired the best personnel of Serbia's army. That's right, by the way, not to mention retired the top 28 generals, not to mention how many officers, etc. A lower rank, to the others. He destroyed the weapons of Serbia's army and Serbia's army. He was down to the fire unit back then. That's how he destroyed it. I ask him, is it true or not? Nine thousand two hundred eighteen missiles "Strela" and 420 rocket launchers. Is it true that it destroyed 200 tanks, is it true that it destroyed 120 armored transporters, is it true that it destroyed 36 "Prague", is it true that it destroyed 90 hoods, that I don't keep counting? I went to NATO to lobby for Serbia's NATO entry. That organisation is past the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, past the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and at that time, according to the commander-in-chief. In his day, the so-called so-called. independence of Kosovo. While he was, truth be told, the Chief of Staff bought eight MiG 29. Look at the wonders, in his day, only on Saturdays were riding hay for horses. Is it true, sir, Pride or not? He's mocking Ratka Young man. I will tell him a quote from Ratko Mladić: “The soldier who gives life for the homeland is not dead. The man who lost the centuries-old hearth is dead," finished the quote. Mr. Ponoš, as my countryman, take these words from General Mladic, put it in the living room to remind yourself of what a soldier's honor is. I could talk by tomorrow. Since teachers keep coming in these days, let me say, Professor Vodnelic is back on the phone again. What else would you insult the President of the Republic? Besides, imagine telling the citizens who it is. It is she who insults and not only him every evening, Siniš Mali, Vladimir Djukanovic, Aleksandr Martinovic, Orlic, there is no one else. You know what she said about Sinisha Little? Here, let her say if she said it or not? She drew Hitler's mustaches for him, Professor of Laundromat. She was so offended by the president of the Republic, Aleksandr Vukic, whom she was a professor, and Vladimir Djukanovic, a top-notch lawyer and for me, when she wrote, quote: "I recently received a copy of the list of lawyers, trainees, volunteers at Belgrade's Bar Association, on which she wrote under the regular number 33rd – Aleksandar Vukic – a graduate lawyer, from Belgrade, at the traineeship of lawyer Vladimir Djukanovic", finished her quote. With this, she wanted a respected teacher to humiliate the president of the state, her former best student and Vladimir Djukanovic. You know what, gentlemen, the professors who do the teaching work have humiliated themselves. All his life, who's an educator, he's been fighting for his students, students and students. Someone better than me. That was my life's mission. This is the lady who supported Vidojkovic in the curse of President Vukic's mother, to remind you, when Vidojkovic said, I quote: "p... . You son of a bitch, she's disgusting. You fool. “ Do you know what the teacher said? That Vidojkovic curses coloritely. Let me translate to you respected citizens of Serbia, picturesquely and densely. The press translated differently, but it's not what they said, it's, I'm not going into language right now, so, pleasantly, it's finished quote. I could count the insults by tomorrow, so one professor, in an interview on TV under the control of Dragan Gilas and Solak, in a conversation, a 45-minute guest, 36 insults told Alexander Vukic, not recorded in the history of humanity. I'm here to quote them, but I don't have time to talk about it anymore. In the end, my respected former students and former students, and that's hundreds of thousands since 1972, you'll be amazed now, you're doctors of science, professors of cathedrals where I worked, all over the world, you know how I raised you, vote for Alexander Vukic on April 3rd. Why? Because he took Serbia on a path where it could only be stopped, God forbid, worldly processes. We are now in the process of accelerated modernisation and the next mandate, the salary will be 1000 euros average, certainly 500 euros in pensions. Now he's looking at me, Mr. Giulibrk, and I don't have a problem calling him, who said, if there's 500 and something that he's going to resign in the NIN, he's never given up. There's no courage to apologize, but about that after. So, Serbia today, I underline twice, respected citizens, is the only country independent and unclassified in Europe. Alexander Vukic is the only independent ruler in Europe. Tell the opposition gentlemen it's not. Let's get together, and the opposition and the position, we're in dialogue, we're stronger together. Long live the Republic of Serbia. Long live our president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-1.u12396	Thank you. There's a word, Snow White Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-1.u12397	Thank you, Vice President, Eagle. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected Serbian citizens, above all in the final session of the 12th session, I want to thank the citizens of Serbia for one co-operation on behalf of all SPS MPs. I will knowingly call it co-operation because as a parliamentary group, we have received countless initiatives, we have received countless suggestions that we have tried to respond to and which we have mainly referred to in the form of parliamentary issues to the government and have come to a solution that was to the general satisfaction. I also want to thank all of you who sat in this meeting with us, as much as anyone saw us as illegal, legitimate, whatever anyone's will, it was a pleasure to hear everything that's been heard over the past year and a half. However, special gratitude, to be worthy of the number we had in this room and the right to most, we owe fellow Glisic, because as the only representative of the opposition, I would say, I would show that you can be an opposition to the government, but never an opposition to your country. Thank you, that was a good example. I hope that if the citizens of Serbia commit themselves and show confidence to some opposition parties who will run this race, that there will be someone who will follow what you have done, and all in the interest that the finals of every session that is ahead of us are for the benefit of the citizens of Serbia, because thanks to them we are all sitting here where we are and sitting every future meeting. He's done a lot of things, a lot of things behind us, that's what we're talking about. What's important is to highlight, and I'll be allowed luxury, because I think I'm right, if you go to the Serbian Parliament site now, you'll see that the number of acts in the process is zero. Congratulations to all of us, first of all to the President of the Assembly. First because I have the right to a subjective approach, because it's about the president of the SPS. We've shown what it means to do your job professionally. We showed what it means to respond by trusting people who have given you confidence and I firmly believe that in the election race that is ahead of us, which will end on April 3rd, it will prove that our efforts have not been in vain. With his colleagues from Unity Serbia, as a coalition that lasts for a very long time on the political scene of Serbia, and it will continue, subfling fellow Voj, and you are right, we will once again face people looking for trust to help solve their problems, not our problems. It seems to me, most importantly, to have one broader approach, which is not personal, which is not due to the need to profit, is most important for Serbia's future and for its duration on this good path. All my colleagues before me talked about how much we've done and improved, primarily the status of our country's economic and financial, then whatever you want. It was getting into different problems, responding to different calls. I'm not going to do any of that today, because it was really my intention to spend a lot of time, and above all to thank those people who had patience, were persistent, followed by sessions, suggested, criticized, praised. It's all for people. Smart people learn lessons from that. Convinced that we've all learned what mistakes we don't need to repeat I wish you luck in the race ahead of us. I firmly believe that the campaign will be on a civilized level, although it does not promise, but if we finally look at the essence, we will realize that we ourselves do not always have to accept what is dictated across the street. Everyone has the right to remain as worthy as he is used to being and being brought up. I'll get it over with. Thank you and the Serbian Parliament Secretariat who has always been available to MPs, not only because it is their obligation, but because it was responsible people. Once again, good luck to all. Serbia's citizens are inexorably grateful. Maybe I'll see you at another meeting, if not personally, then I'm sure with some other SPS representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-1.u12398	Thank you. Last on the list reported for the word, Dr. Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-1.u12399	Thank you, Vice President, Mr. Orlic. Dear fellow Members of the People, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, last year we made it clear and proved that everything we had promised we had done. President Aleksandar Vukic, SNS and the Serbian government have concrete results, concrete results in all areas. Look at how many previous years have been built roads, how many factories have been built, how many new jobs, foreign and domestic investments have been opened, how many hospitals have been built, renovated hospitals, built or renovated new school and pre-school institutions, how much wages and pensions have jumped, how much has been invested in health care, and how we have responded greatly when it comes to an energy crisis that was not a crisis for Serbia. Look how great we've been over these two years fighting the coronary virus. The best in Europe. How best we got respirators and vaccines from all over the world. We made it clear and proved that what we promised, that what Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic promised, he did. And not only has he fulfilled his promises, but we have done it through our promises, because Serbia today is a responsible state, a democratic state, the best state in Southeast Europe as regards results in all areas and one of the best in Europe and the world. We don't have another country. We have Serbia. We protect her and strengthen her. Serbia, led by Alexander Vukic, has been growing stronger and stronger in recent years, year after year, the people know this, the people know what the best policy is, the people know and what the alternative is, the people are not alternative to this excellent policy by Alexander Vukic. The alternative to this policy is the tycoon-crime policy of Dragan Djilas, Dragan Šolak and their mercenaries, Marinika Tepic, Zdravko Ponosa, Vladite Jankovic and all their perpetrators, whom Serbia is not in the first place. The only option for Serbia, for citizens, is that option that leads us to a safe future, which leads us to a safe future for our children, that option that is for unification, and the only option that leads that path is that option, the political option led by our president and leader Aleksandar Vucic. Therefore, I call on the citizens of Serbia to vote for those who lead Serbia united in a better future, in the future for our children, because together we can do everything, we together led by Alexander Vukic can do anything. Therefore, dear citizens, we support Serbia on 3 April, we support what is best for Serbia, and that is Aleksandar Vukic and the politics of Aleksandar Vukic. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-1.u12400	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who has not used his right in accordance with Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 98(4), I'm closing my rules of procedure for a unique search. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Monday 14 February 2022, starting at 17.30 p.m. as the day for voting on the agenda of the 19th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Thank you, everyone who participated in the debate in this part of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-1.u12401	We're moving to session of the 19th extraordinary session. First item of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision appointing the members of the Supervisory Board for the Election Camp. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search, and before we move to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105(2), paragraph 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to appoint members of the Election Campaign Supervisory Board as a whole. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 190, for – 190. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Election Campaign Supervisory Board. Allow me to congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the members of the Election Campaign Supervisory Board on their appointment and to wish them a lot of success in their work. Ladies and gentlemen, before the end of these sessions, let me point out that we have reached the very end of our sessions, that tomorrow the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be disbanded to hold extraordinary parliamentary elections. I want to tell you that the National Assembly in this assembly, between 3 August 2020 and 14 February, considered and decided on 435 points of the agenda, that we passed 265 laws, 24 by emergency procedure and 241 by regular procedure, that 67 sessions of the National Assembly were held during this period during this 12th session. Also, between 3 August 2020 and today, the National Assembly held 136 days. During this term, regardless of the various objections that were at the beginning and suspicions, the National Assembly managed to bring in several very important acts that would be important for Serbia's future. There has been a change in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This assembly of the National Assembly was the one that decided that this branch of government would rule out the possibility of selecting another branch of government, i.e. the judiciary, which I don't think is a similar example in Serbian history. This is certainly a significant contribution to further reforms in the area of the rule of law and independent justice. I would also like to add that we have been conducting a successful inter-party dialogue, that this dialogue has resulted in all political parties participating in the elections and that no one will be able to seek an alibi, although it will certainly be, in allegedly poor electoral conditions, and thus put an end to the whole state of Serbia. We have shown that dialogue can be conducted and that dialogue should be conducted right here in parliament, i.e. in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'll also remind you that we've brought the Code of Conduct to the MPs who will remain for future calls. I will remind you that we are positively assessed by the European institutions for some of the progress we have made in the way the National Assembly works, and above all, which is being examined in the number of laws that we have passed in an emergency procedure, unlike those that they have adopted under the ordinary procedure. I want to thank everyone again for their dedicated work. Our mandate ends tomorrow. I don't know if it's gonna be the end or the new beginning, but anyway, I want to thank everyone for your cooperation. I want to thank the heads of Parliament clubs, vice presidents of the National Assembly and deputy heads of Parliament clubs, working bodies, various networks here in parliament, simply for all of you. It was an honor to be president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I wish everyone a lot of success and, most importantly, Serbia has lived! Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the single agenda item of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the 19th extraordinary session of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly. Thank you so much and so much happiness and success!
