ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12079	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 16th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 115 MPs. I remind you he's a member of 49. The Law on the National Assembly provides for a quorum for the work of the National Assembly when each decision is taken if a majority of all MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I would ask the Members of Parliament to insert their cards into the e-system's parliamentary units. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 177 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by Djordje Komlenski and Jelena Mihailovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. You were presented with the minutes of the 14th and 15th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2021 and the ninth special session of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. I would like to inform you that by verifying the tasks of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to those minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the 14th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2021, held on 21, 22 and 23 December 2021. Please press the corresponding key. I conclude the vote: a total of -181, for -179, abstention - one, did not vote - one. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, adopted the minutes of the 14th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly. I am voting on the minutes of the 15th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2021, held on 23 December 2021. Please press the corresponding key. I conclude the vote: total - 183, for -182, did not vote - one. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, adopted the minutes of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly. I am voting on the minutes of the 9th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly, held on 29 December 2021. Please press the corresponding key. I conclude the vote: a total of -184, for -182, did not vote - two. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has adopted the minutes of the Ninth Special Session of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the session of the 16th extraordinary session of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly, which was convened at the Government's request, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure, you have been sent a request to hold an emergency session, with a certain agenda contained in that request. You've received a proposal on the agenda. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Proposal for a law on the election of the President of the Republic, submitted by the Government, 2. Proposal for a Law on the Selection of People's MPs, submitted by the Government, 3. Proposal for a law on local elections, submitted by the Government, 4. Proposal for a law on the financing of political activities, submitted by the Government, 5. Proposal for a Law amending the Anti-Corruption Act, submitted by the Government, 6. Proposal for a law supplementing the law on non-party proceedings, submitted by the Government. Seven. A Bill on Social Entrepreneurship by the Government, 8 / 8 Proposal for a law amending the Law on salaries of civil servants and deputies, which was submitted by the Government, 9. Proposal for a Law amending the General Use Act, which was submitted by the Government, 10. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Weapons and Ammunition, submitted by MP Marijan Rističević, 11. Proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Banca Intesa a.d. Belgrade, Raiffeisen banka a.d. Belgrade, Commercial Banka a.d., Sberbank Serbia a.d., OTP banka Serbia stock company Novi Sad and Nova Ljubljanska banka d.d. Ljubljana under the authority of the Public Enterprise "Srbigas" Novi Sad, which was submitted by the Government, 12. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement establishing the International Investment Bank, which was submitted by the Government, 13. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement relating to an unsecured loan of up to 400,000 euros with insurance by the multilateral investment guarantee agency in order to finance certain construction services by Bechtel Enka UK Limited, which operates in Serbia via Bechtel Enka UK Limited Branch of Belgrade for the purposes of the company "Corridori Serbia" d.o.o. Belgrade with regard to the construction of the infrastructure corridor of the E-761 section of Pojate - Preljina (Moravski Corridor) between the Republic of Serbia represented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, acting through the Ministry of Finance as a loanee and J.R. MORGAN AG as Agent and JPMORGAN Chase BANK, N.A., LONDON BRANCH as the original mandated manager of the Corporate and Investment Bank, Raiffeisen Bank International AG and Santander Bank N.A. as Mandating leading arrangements and Caixabank, S.A. and UBS Switzerland AG as the leading arrangements and Banco Santander, S.A., Caixabank, S.A., Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., London Branch, Raiffeisen Bank International AG and UBS Switzerland AG as the original lenders, who submitted the Government, 14. Proposal for a law confirming the credit arrangement agreement of up to 203,775,000 euros secured by China Export & Credit Insurance Corporation for the financing of the first phase of the Central Channelisation System of the City of Belgrade project between the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, acting through the Ministry of Finance, as a Borrower, BNP PARIBAS SA and UNICREDIT BANK AG, as an Agent, UNICREDIT BANK AG, BNP PARIBAS FORTIS SA/NV and BNP PARIBAS SA, as the Original Borrowers, UNICREDIT BANK AG, as an agent and BNP PARIBAS SA, as the ESA Agent, who submitted the Government, 15. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty (Programme for Climate Change Resistance and Irrigation in Serbia - Phase II), between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was submitted by the Government, 16. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement The solid waste programme in Serbia, between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was submitted by the Government, 17. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union No. CRS 1022 01 A between the French Development Agency, as a Borrower and the Republic of Serbia, as a Borrower, for the realisation of Serbia's solid waste programme, which was submitted by the Government, 18. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty (Project for the Construction of broadband communication infrastructure in rural areas 2) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was submitted by the Government, 19. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty on Credit Arrangements of 203,400,928 euros between the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, acting through the Ministry of Finance, as a Borrower, arranged by the BANK OF CHINA SRBIA A.D. BELGRADE as the Authorised Chief Arrangement with the BANK OF CHINA LIMITED HUNGARIAN BRANCH as Agent and BANK OF CHINA LIMITED HUNGARIAN BRANCH as the Original Borrower, which was submitted by the Government, 20. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement for the privileged buyer for the project of the construction of a fast traffic facility Novi Sad – Ruma (the "Fruskogorski Corridor") between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Finance as a Borrower and the Chinese Export-Import Bank as a Borrower, which was submitted by the Government, 21. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Framework Agreement on Loan LD 2106 (2021) between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia for a Project Loan - Centre for Dual Education Training, submitted by the Government, 22. Proposal for a Law confirming Decision No 1/2021 of the Stabilisation and Association Council of the EU and of Serbia amending the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Serbia, of the other part, by replacing its Protocol 3 on the definition of the concept of "produced products" and methods of administrative co-operation, which the Government submitted, 23. Proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the National Council for Higher Education, which was submitted by the Government and 24. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Management Board of the National Body for Accreditation and Quality Security in Higher Education, which was submitted by the Government. The MP, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, suggested that a joint principled search be carried out on 1-11 points, under two, a joint single search of 12-22 points and a third, period. 23 and 24. Does Ambassador Martinovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote: a total of -184, for -179, did not vote - five. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that they are invited to attend: Marija Obradović, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Siniša Mali, Minister of Finance, Maja Popović, Minister of Justice, Prof. Dr. Daria Kisić Tepavčević, Minister of Labour, Employment, Borary and Social Affairs, Dr. Zlatibor Lončar, Minister of Health, Maja Mačužić Puzic, State Secretary at the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Saša Stevanović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Ivana Savićić, Assistant Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Deputy Minister of Justice, Vladimir Vinš, Deputy Minister of Justice, Sandra Grujic, Deputy Minister of Justice of the Ministry of Public Affairs and Public Affairs of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Government of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of Public and Public Affairs of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Republic of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Republic of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Ministry of the Republic of the Ministry of the Republic of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure, I am opening a joint review of the agenda points from 1 to 11. Do the proposings, or the proposing representatives, want a word? Minister Marija Obradovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12080	Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a dozen draft laws in this joint search today. I have been asked by my colleagues to explain some of the laws that are within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Finance and what is crucial, these are three electoral laws which are within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. So, in the next 30 minutes, I will look back on these ten draft laws, which are really crucial for the upcoming period that awaits Serbia. You have before you a set of laws of importance with the conduct of elections on a republican and local level. In addition to the classical electoral laws governing election procedures for the President of the Republic, MPs and committees of the units of local self-government, you have before you a new Law on the financing of political activities, which regulates important issues for the functioning of political entities participating in the elections, and we will consider some amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Corruption and the Law on Off-party Procedure, which contain solutions to the importance of achieving certain rights in the electoral procedure. I would like to point out several important facts to understand the circumstances why these electoral laws are being passed so close to the upcoming elections on April 3rd this year, specifically in two months. At the end of the previous parliamentary elections in June 2020, the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation, known as ODIR, published a final report on the parliamentary elections in the Republic of Serbia held on 21 June 2020, with recommendations to improve the election process. The new government established a Working Group for Co-operation with the OSCE and ODIR on 3 December 2020 to ensure the implementation of the recommendations made. Professor Dejan Djurdjevic, director of the Republic Secretariat for Law and one of our current employers and probably the best acquaintance of electoral issues in the Republic of Serbia, whose vast knowledge and experience is embedded in all three proposals for a new electoral law. He is, of course, the most responsible for being able to consider very high-quality legal proposals. At the same time, I thank people who have really been in the past few months, and I will say, without exaggeration, in the twenty-four-hour work, they have been committed to making proposals for these laws. It is important to note that the solutions contained in the proposed laws are a product of a wide range of consultations carried out on several different levels. Since the start of the law-making work, what ODIR pointed out in the election monitoring reports in Serbia has been included in the laws. One of these recommendations is that many important issues of the electoral process should be regulated by law rather than by more sublegal acts of the Republic Election Commission. By accepting this recommendation, legal certainty is significantly enhanced in the conduct of the elections, because the law will now regulate everything that is essentially legal matter, and so far has been prescribed by the Republic Election Commission. This applies to rules relating to the education of election committees, rules concerning the submission of electoral lists and rules on the registration of domestic and foreign observers, the work of the electoral authorities, which are missing under the applicable law. One reason why the National Assembly had waited until mid-January with the proposal for election laws was that it was waiting to receive unofficial comments from ODIR on all three drafts, so other than the most significant recommendations contained in the report, the legal texts included the largest number of ODIR comments made on the draft laws that were in the public debate. The second aspect, very important for the drafting of the proposed laws, was inter-party dialogues, led under the auspices of the president of the National Assembly. The two parallel inter-party dialogues, led with and without the involvement of representatives of the European Parliament, have also produced important documents for the appearance of current legal projects. Here I think of the agreement on improving the conditions for holding elections, which was concluded on 29 October 2021 in the framework of an inter-party dialogue conducted without the participation of MEPs. This document defines a number of issues that have been materialized through appropriate legal provisions. The third aspect that affected the content of the electoral laws was the public debate, in which a large number of constructive comments and proposals were received, both individuals, including those from local self-government, who improved individual solutions in the Bill's proposal in local elections, as well as civil society organisations dealing with electoral matter, with which quality communication was established in considering the draft of these laws and whose significant number of objections and proposal found its place in the proposed laws. When all of these are taken into account, there is an impression that the proposed laws will certainly improve the quality of the upcoming electoral processes. This closeness of the election, which is expected in April, has affected the lack of access to reform of the electoral system in the Republic of Serbia at the moment, because the complexity of this problem requires much more time to think about adequate solutions and for comprehensive social and political consultations for which there was no time at a given political point in which these laws were approached. It is this circumstance that has also been established in the conclusions of the agreement mentioned at the end of October last year, which finds that there is not enough time to access structural reforms of the electoral system, as well as the radical changes of the existing electoral system, as such reforms cannot be implemented until the upcoming elections are held, as this phase of dialogue has been the subject of an improvement of the existing proportional electoral system. In this respect, it is worth mentioning that the same agreement concluded that the inter-party dialogue would continue after the upcoming elections, when the possibilities for structural changes in the electoral system, i.e. the wider reforms of the existing electoral system, will also be discussed. The most significant and also most extensive legislative proposal is the bill on the selection of MPs, given that this law regulates all key issues of the electoral system in the Republic of Serbia, which are applied accordingly to the choice of the President of the Republic and through the Law on Local Elections, and also to the choice for local parliaments. Although the number of members is significantly larger than the current law, it must be noted that the draft law on the election of MPs does not change the essential aspects of elections for MPs. In line with the Code of Good Practice on Election Affairs of the Venice Commission, according to which basic aspects of the election should not be changed less than a year before the elections, the law has retained the legislative solutions that can be considered as the main postulates of our electoral process, which is: the Republic of Serbia as one electoral unit, the vote for election lists from which the mandates of MPs are assigned to their order on the list, the application of the system of the largest factor for the allocation of the mandate and the electoral price of 3%. It is significant to point out provisions which define the right to vote in all three draft laws, i.e. the right to choose and to be elected for both the MP and the President of the Republic and the board of the Assembly of the Local Self-Government Unit. To this end, compliance with international legal documents on the rights of persons with disabilities, and taking into account the constitutional provision on the electoral law, a solution whose electoral right could not be exercised by a full-time person who is completely deprived of his or her professional capacity, as well as a person with limited business capacity, whose judgment limits his or her business ability to explicitly determine the inability to exercise electoral law. For the purpose of establishing the conditions for the appropriate application of such a solution, the addition of the Act on the non-partisan procedure is also proposed by adding a provision under which the court will be obliged to provide, in a solution to which a person partially deprives business ability, an explicit indication of whether that person is capable of exercising electoral law, in order to determine in practice whether a person with limited business capacity can exercise his electoral rights. Basically, elections and candidateing solutions have also been retained, so the electoral lists will continue to be able to submit registered political parties, coalitions of registered political parties and groups of at least 10 citizens. The election list will continue to require 10,000 certified voters' statements, but a much smaller amount of accompanying documents will be submitted to candidates for MPs, which will significantly facilitate and speed up the preparation of the candidacy for voters in the elections. The major news is making it easier to run for the political parties of national minorities, which is a topic discussed for many years, but which is only now experiencing realisation. In fact, although the national minorities have since 2004, it has been easier to get a parliamentary mandate through the introduction of the so-called The natural threshold, only now the new law reduces the number of voter statements needed to declare the minority electoral list from ten to five thousand statements, which consistently surrounds the principle of positive discrimination against national minorities. Draft electoral laws also introduce significant newspapers regarding the authorities responsible for conducting the elections. What ODIR also recognised in his reports on elections at the republican level, was missing among the organs as a natural bond between the RIK, as a central electoral body, and over eight thousand electoral committees in the 161st unit of local self-government, counting the city's municipalities of Belgrade. It is now proposed to formally introduce this, let us call it, inter-organism, i.e. giving significant competences to municipal and city election committees to conduct elections at the republican level. The local electoral commissions have a very ambitious duty to actively engage in the conduct of elections at the republican level, by being competent to determine polling stations on their territory, to educate election committees in a permanent and extended composition, to resolve on requirements for the cancellation of voting in polling stations and to determine the results of elections on their territory. The current situation is maintained when it comes to the composition of the Republic Election Commission and its way of education. The permanent composition of the RIK will continue to have the president and 16 members and their deputies, who must have higher education in the fields of legal science and who will be appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from all parliamentary groups in the National Assembly in proportion to their size. The bill, however, contains a new solution that is the outcome of an inter-party dialogue and under which the right to propose a member or deputy member of the RIK will be given to MPs who have been elected from the same electoral list who have not won the number of mandates sufficient to educate the parliamentary group and have not joined any parliamentary group. These MPs, and even the MPs of the individual, if they meet these conditions, will be able to participate in proposing the permanent composition of the RIK. This solution, when it comes to RIK, first and foremost meets national minorities who, in most cases, cannot win at least five parliamentary mandates, as much as is currently needed for the education of parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. However, this rule will also apply at a local place in the education of local electoral commissions where it will certainly have a far wider application, given that there are a significant number of electoral lists at the site that do not win the number of mandates needed to form a committee group. This contributes to the representation of all political options in the electoral bodies and thus enhances the democraticity of the electoral processes. What is a pleasure, to point out in particular, is a completely new solution when it comes to the permanent composition of the RIK. For the first time, parliamentary groups are under obligation to make a decision on which persons they will propose to appoint to the RIK... They will have to take care of gender representation, so that according to the letter of law, the parliamentary group to which it belongs will have to propose two members of the RIK permanent group to propose one member of both sexes, to the parliamentary group which has the right to propose three persons, will have to propose two members of one half and one member of the other sex, etc., while proposals by parliamentary groups that will have the right to propose more than five persons to contain at least 40% of members of the less represented sex among the proposed persons. In this regard, it is a pleasure to point out that the SNS parliamentary group has already met this last condition, which indicates that the SNS and through RIK promotes significant participation of women in the electoral processes, as an important part of the political processes in our country, which is one of the principles of the Law on Gender Equality. As regards membership in election bodies, the law will for the first time lay down the basis for termination of membership and regulate the way the competent authorities act, and in the event that a person ceases to be a member of the electoral authority. In this regard, I would like to stress that according to the letter of the law of the parliamentary group, they will no longer be able to request the resolution of the member or deputy member of the RIK they have proposed, which significantly improves independence, first of all the RIK members themselves, and thus directly and indirectly, the RIK itself, which is one of the recommendations of the ODIR with which we absolutely agree. It is important to point out that an inter-party dialogue agreement without the intervention of Europarliamentaries has reached agreement that the upcoming elections are being held by the RIK, whose law will temporarily extend the permanent composition with six other members and six deputy members to be proposed by the National Assembly president, and in accordance with the agreement of opposition participants of both inter-party dialogues. This solution, I would like to point out, has already been applied during the referendum to confirm the act to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. A similar solution will also be applied to the composition of local electoral committees and election committees that will be extended with one member and member deputy, also in line with the opposition's agreement. When we talk about election committees, the draft law on the selection of MPs takes a long-standing solution contained in the RIK's instructions, and according to which the permanent composition of election committees propose parliamentary groups in the Assembly in proportion to their power in parliament, with no parliamentary group being able to have more than half of the members in the election committee. This concept was first applied to a referendum on confirming Serbia's new constitution in 2006 and has since been applied with the general agreement of all political actors and represents a good example of good practice. There's never been a dispute about that. With regard to the transparency of RIK's work and local electoral commissions, new laws are making some more important improvements. Thus, the law now stipulates the RIK's obligation to carry on its web presentation sessions and press conferences and publish records from its sessions, as well as to publish all its decisions within 24 hours of the end of the session at which those decisions were taken. This is the last of particular importance for the protection of rights in the electoral process, given that the draft law on the election of MPs introduces one significant news that future deadlines for the submission of objections and complaints to decisions by the election authority will not start from the decision-making process, i.e. the delivery of a solution by appeal, but exclusively from the moment of publication of these acts on the RIK web presentation. In this way, the procedures for the protection of rights will be more effective and transparent. It is important that we point to another newspaper when it comes to the publication of decision-making bodies. In fact, local electoral commissions will now have an obligation to publish all their decisions, regardless of whether they make them for the conduct of republican or local elections, on the RIK's web presentation, as a future primary channel for the publication of acts by local electoral commissions. Such a solution stemmed from the need for the principle of transparent work of the election authorities to be consistently applied to local levels of government, as well as the fact that the largest number of local electoral commissions do not have their own web representation, which is why the concept of protection of the election process could not be applied, therefore, to local elections. On the issue of running itself, and with regard to the submission of electoral lists of national minorities, the bill on the election of MPs does not bring an important paper. The new law will first contain detailed provisions on the content of the electoral list, rules for making up the electoral list and education of coalitions and groups of citizens. These provisions do not represent any new solutions, so far they have been contained in the RIK's instructions and are well-known to the long-standing actors of our political scene. What is new in the application process is the setting of a new deadline for the submission of electoral lists, which will expire 20 days before the day of the vote in order to ensure sufficient time for the implementation of the procedures for the protection of the right in the application procedure, which is now determined by longer deadlines, to avoid the timely establishment of a summary electoral list and thus the timely start of the printing of ballots. The second paper contained in the bill is a rule that one voter can support several electoral lists with his signature. That's where you should pay attention. This is, the public was very interested in this solution. So, one voter can, by his signature, support several electoral lists, not just one, as has been prescribed by law so far, and this solution is a compliance with the international standards of the Venice Commission, which ODIR insists on in almost all election observation reports in the Republic of Serbia. However, as I said, this solution has met with a lack of understanding and strong opposition from the opposition representatives, which is why the government of the Republic of Serbia is ready to amend this provision, although defined in the law, and return the existing solution, as proposed by MP Vladan Glisic in one of his amendments. With regard to gender representation, the solution adopted in February 2020, according to which the electoral list must be 40% less represented, with the difference that the new formulation wishes to exclude the space for avoiding the meaning of such a standard as the current provision. What represents a very important improvement in relation to the existing law are provisions on the determination of the outcome of the elections. The current law does not contain provisions to address certain situations that arise in practice, and so far have been a major problem in determining the results of the elections. Thus, in almost all elections back 20 years, participants' opinions in the elections on how and should act RIK in situations where it is practically impossible to determine the results of voting in a particular polling post, since the law did not explicitly attribute the right of RIK to act in these situations unless someone submitted a complaint. The topic in practice raised the question of whether RIK has the right to make decisions under official duty regarding the result of the vote in a particular polling post, which the former Supreme Court of Serbia gave a negative answer in one of its legal understandings. However, such a negative view of the Supreme Court of Serbia has provided an answer to what the RIK cannot do, but has not provided a key answer to what the RIK can and should do in a situation where, for example, some polling post is not open at all or when the election board does not submit a report on its work or the report is empty or unsigned. These are situations that indicate an irregularity that makes voting in such a polling post not to be considered correct. The other problem that arises more and more frequently in practice is the disorderly records on the work of the voting committees, i.e. the records in which the registration results cannot be accepted as correct, because they are logically uncoordinated. As I said, all of these circumstances are subject to discussion and dispute practically in each election and the law did not provide adequate guidance and even fewer answers. And for these reasons, the draft law on the selection of MPs contains detailed instructions on the conduct of local election committees when they are found in a situation where they cannot determine results from a polling post, either because they are in fact impossible to do so, because no voting material or material has been delivered at all, resulting in some illogicality or irregularity, for example that the number of ballots in the ballot box is greater than the number of voters who went to the polls, which is, you will agree, theoretically impossible, and therefore constitutes an irregularity which, if it is shown to be correct, leads to the cancellation of the vote in that polling post. The law introduces new legal institutes, the Institute of Election Committee Controls with the forming of a control report, the Institute of Resolutions on the correcting of the minutes in the event that an irregularity has been found to be the result of the electoral committee's removable error, the Institute of Decisions on the determination of the outcome of the vote at the polling post, if the lack is such that there is no way to talk about the outcome of the vote, such as that in the case of the minutes which have not been signed by at least three members of the electoral board and the institution of a decision to cancel the vote at the polling post in case the polling post of an irregularity defined as the reason for the vote to be considered incorrect, such as, for example, allowing a person who is not listed in a copy of the vote list. Those institutes will certainly help the electoral commissions to determine the results of the vote on their territory, but will also have an important impact on the establishment of legal certainty regarding the way they will be handled in determining the results of the vote, which I have stated so far has been the subject of serious disputes and disagreements. The special paper represents the Institute of the so-called Institute. "Small control" by the opposition electoral list, which won at least 2% of the votes according to preliminary results, published by RIK within 24 hours of the end of the vote. This institute was entered into the Law in accordance with the opposition's request, which has been called "the leadership" or "the challenge" proposed by one part of the opposition, which was presented in an inter-party dialogue without the involvement of the European Parliament and represents an instrument in the hands of the opposition that wants to check whether the results of the election are correctly established in certain polling stations, as set out in the report on the work of the electoral committee. This solution will, as we expect, affect the rise of trust in the integrity and legitimacy of the entire electoral process, which is the interest of all participants in the elections, including certainly the ruling majority's political parties. With regard to the distribution, allocation and termination of the mandate of MPs, the bill does not provide for any newspapers, and existing census resolutions of 3% are maintained as agreed in the inter-party dialogue. The rules on the resignation of MPs also remain unchanged. Minority electoral lists will participate in the allocation of mandates regardless of the number of votes won, with an increase of 35% of those minority lists that won less than 3% of the votes. The Republic Election Commission will continue to be competent to determine whether any electoral list wishing to obtain the position of the minority electoral list fulfils the conditions for recognition of that status, which will be authorised by law to obtain an application for recognition of such status, if it finds that there are circumstances which undoubtedly indicate that the intention is to play the law and unfoundedly acquire a privileged position in the distribution of parliamentary mandates, rather than a sincere desire to represent the interests of a particular national minority. In the past, there have been opportunities that some have tried to gain positions in parliament locally or in the republic. Finally, it is important to stress that the bill is different and significantly more detailed than the existing law governing the protection of rights in the electoral procedure. In this respect, the broadest scope of the right is recognised by the applicants of the declared electoral lists, while voters' rights are protected in those segments where they are directly interested in the legal validity of decisions taken, i.e. actions taken. For example, such as cancelling the vote at the polling post where the voter is listed in a copy of the voter's list or a report on the overall results of the election. The justice system has been further improved by extending the deadlines, thus extending the deadline for the submission of the complaint from 24 to 72 hours, and the deadline for appeal to the administrative court from 48 to 72 hours also. In practice, everything mentioned in this Law on the selection of MPs will also be applied in the process of implementing elections for the President of the Republic, which is why this bill is of the least importance because it regulates only those aspects specific to this type of choice, so to elect the President of the Republic. The elections for the President of the Republic will be held by the same three levels of the RIK election administration, the local electoral commission and election committees. The draft law on the election of the President of the Republic does not also bring the essential newspaper into this election process, but it is mainly the existing provisions, termologically and logically adapted to the solutions set out in the draft Law on the selection of Members of Parliaments, which I have spoken of so far. The paper suggests that the order of candidates on the candidate list, i.e. the ballot, is no longer determined by draw, but by the order of the declaration, which is the principle applicable in parliamentary and local elections. However, as with the previous solution, where there has been a lot of controversy about whether one voter can support several electoral lists, so the amendment has been submitted to consider this Friday when we discuss details, so in this situation when the parliament of the candidate for the election of the president of the Republic is at stake, the proposal has met with a sharp criticism of the opposition insisting that the draw-up institute be maintained in the presidential elections, which is a request acceptable to the government. So the government is likely to accept the amendment, MP Vladan Glisic. The President of the Republic will still be able to propose political parties and coalitions of parties, as well as groups of at least 10 citizens, and the existing deadline for the submission of the electoral lists remains, so no later than 20 days before the date of voting for the President of the Republic. As far as local elections are concerned, the proposal for a Law on Local Elections brings significant newspapers, in addition to the already mentioned ones, an improvement on the transparency of the work of the election authorities at all levels, as well as on local electoral commissions, an important paper is being introduced on the composition of local election commissions. For many years, the permanent composition of the electoral commission numbered at least seven members and their deputies, i.e. the president and six members, leaving units of local self-government to decide exactly how many members would count their electoral commission, which in practice led to a wide variety of solutions by observing the state of the municipality to the municipality. The bill now establishes a range of members of the electoral commission depending on the number of voters in the local self-government unit. What should be pointed out here is that the number of voters is mostly followed by the number of councilors in the local congregation. In a number of committees, there is often a more complex parliamentary structure, which, in the case of the existence of only seven members of the permanent composition of the electoral commission, cannot adequately reflect the proportionality of the parliamentary structure in representation in the permanent composition of the electoral commission. The law provides for four groups of local self-government units, up to 50,000, up to 500,000, and over 500,000 voters, and establishes the election commission's composition at seven, nine, 11 or 13 members and deputies. It has thus established the obligation of the new assembly to appoint a new permanent composition of the electoral commission within six months of the assembly's constitution. In view of the general rule that no committee group can have more than half of the members of the permanent composition of the electoral commission, this law first regulates possible situations when one committee group has more than half of the total number of committee members, i.e. there are only one or two committee groups, which is currently a common situation in local congregations, independent of those situations. A parliamentary group that can appoint a president, members and deputies in a number that is not more than half the number of members of the electoral commission. In a situation where there is one or two parliamentary groups, the members and deputies of the election commission will be appointed by the head of the municipal, or city administration of the staff in the authority of the administration who has experience in the conduct of the elections. A significant paper to be specifically pointed out is the regulation of the jurisdiction of the High Court to resolve disputes that arise in the application of the Law on Local Elections. The jurisdiction of the High Court will be applied within a period of one year from the entry into force of this law until the jurisdiction of the Administrative Court is maintained. The reason for the introduction of this change is the need to ensure greater efficiency in the decision-making of electoral disputes in such a way that this jurisdiction will be allocated to 25 senior courts instead of to three departments of the Administrative Court. This is particularly important when holding elections for committees in regular periods when the elections for about 130 local self-government units are discussed. In the context of the provisions determining the start of the election procedure, I note that for the first time, a deadline is established when the earliest decision can be made to call the elections in relation to the end of the term of office of the committee of the current assembly of the local self-government unit. This allows local elections to be called at the earliest 120 and no later than 45 days before the end of the term of office of the Assembly, which shall expire in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government, and the deadline shall be taken into account from the date on which the current assembly is convened. The special paper represents a minimum number of voters who support the electoral list with their signatures. A range of seven groups has been established compared to the number of voters enrolled in the local self-government unit, and the number of voters required, the voter's signature has been from 200, as has been the case so far, up to three thousand for local self-government units with over 500 thousand registered voters. The proposed way is left with the principle of determining the number of signatures required in relation to the number of candidates on the electoral list, which is the basic rule under the current law, but according to the selection of MPs, a specific minimum number of signatures for the submission of each electoral list is determined, of course, depending on the number of voters in that local self-government unit. In a significant number of municipalities, this reduces the number of signatures needed for the application of the so-called so-called Act. full of electoral lists, and this applies especially to those municipalities with a small number of voters and a large number of committees. New deadlines have been set for the establishment of the local assembly in order to avoid obstruction of the constitution. A shorter deadline has been set for the president of the previous assembly to convene a constitutional session. There will be 10 instead of 15 days to date, as well as the obligation to provide for its maintenance within 30 days of the publication of the mandate decision on the web presentation. Until now, no deadline has been set for holding a constitutional session convened by the president of the previous assembly, so it was possible to set the final day for the meeting of the Assembly, which, according to the Law on Local Self-Government, is two months from the publication of the result of the elections, which carries the risk that the assembly of that day will not be constitutionalised and in that case new elections must be discussed and there is a certain possibility of abuse. With regard to the participation of the political parties of national minorities in local elections, appropriate solutions are taken from the draft law on the selection of MPs, so it is assumed that it is sufficient to submit a double number of signatures to the other electoral lists. The current Law on Local Elections under which the applicant of the electoral list may have the position of a political party of a national minority only in units of local self-government in which, according to the data from the last census, members of the national minority represented by that applicant, but it is a newspaper that there is also a provision that introduces this minimum condition and a maximum condition, therefore, in addition to this minimum, we also have a maximum condition for the number of members of the national minority who allow an election list to be recognised as minority status, namely someone cannot have minority status, cannot be recognised in that electoral list representing the interests of the national minority whose members in that unit of local self-government actually account for more than 50% of the total population. In that case, by the logic of things, we can't talk about the minority status of that minority where they practically represent the majority. At the end of this, I believe for you, too long an exposition on election laws, I would like to stress that the transitional and finalisation of the provisions of the Bill on the Selection of People's MPs and the Proposal for Law on Local Elections is an obligation to establish new electoral commissions including RIK and to comply with these solutions in these laws within seven days of the entry into force of the law, which means that the new commissions will have very little time to prepare for the upcoming elections. In front of all political actors, and especially in front of all election commissions, the serious challenges that put before all of us are both these new laws and the fact that we will also have elections for the MPs, and for the president of the Republic, and it is necessary to add both extraordinary and some regular local elections to 14 units of local self-government. Convinced that these new legal texts will offer, in addition to the challenges, key guidelines on how to go through these elections in all legal ways, which is of great importance to us, and as political actors, it is up to us to make our contribution to these elections in a democratic and tolerated atmosphere. I'm going to have to ask you just for three, four minutes, to present the other laws that are in this united principled search. Thank you. This is a bill on funding political activities, an extremely important bill and it will make a significant contribution to improving the electoral process. It will bring more transparency with regard to the financing of political activities. The current Law on the financing of political activities was adopted in 2011, so it was amended in 2014 and 2019, and I will remind you that in 2019 the Government educated the Working Group for Co-operation with the OEPS and ODIR Office to follow the implementation of recommendations for improving the electoral process. The Working Group continued to work in 2020. The finance ministry has prepared this legislative solution based on recommendations from the Working Group and later extensive discussions. I would like to stress that the Action Plan for Chapter 23 gives rise to the need to amend this Law on the financing of political activities, in order to clearly identify and distinguish the obligations of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, DRI and other bodies in the process of controlling political activities and entities, and to determine precisely what are obligations and what are mechanisms for transparent financing of political entities. The Ministry of Finance, which is responsible for the implementation of this measure, has established the obligation to prescribe that the audit programme must include the audit of parliamentary parties at the republical level and the obligations of the Director of the Tax Administration to include financial and other services of political entities in the annual or extraordinary tax control plan, in accordance with the report of the Anti-Corruption Agency on the financing of political activities and entities. Of course, this solution also provides for the borrowing of political entities exclusively with banks and other financial organisations whose core activity is, political entities are obliged and are in charge under regular and legal conditions, thus preventing the possibility of borrowing from natural and legal persons, who could have an impact on political entities by giving such a loan. The maximum amount of credit and loans to which all political entities can be debted to banks has been determined, up to 25% of the funds provided from public sources to finance regular work or cover the costs of the political campaign. The provision relating to immovable assets that the political party acquires from public sources is then complemented. It is prescribed that the political party shall not vacate the property acquired from public sources without compensation or at a price lower than the market price, but at the discretion of the competent tax authority. The maximum value of giving on an annual basis has also been changed which a natural person can make to a political subject for regular work and now amounts to a maximum of ten average monthly earnings, i.e. in the case of a legal person, that is, a maximum of 30 average monthly earnings. What is interesting is that the finances of political activities cannot be, say, public notebooks or perpetrators, so the individuals to whom public powers have been transferred and, of course, political entities are forbidden to finance humanitarian character activities, as well as to advertise any other kind of advertising material used in the election campaign must contain the identification of a political entity in a political campaign. So you realize that we've been trying to bring down to a minimum or to prevent any possibility of abuse. Although I would never play with Serbian shrewdness. We're always surprised by the legal proposals, we're all witnesses to it. It is very important that you know that political entities are obliged to submit to the Agency a final report on the costs of the election campaign and, of course, a division of criminal sanctions for political parties and responsible persons has been carried out. There are some minor injuries to the political party from 100,000 to millions of dinars, responsible persons from 20,000 to 100,000 dinars and, of course, fines for serious injuries, for the political party from 200,000 to 2 million, and for the responsible persons from 50,000 to 150,000 dinars. I want two more sentences. When it comes to the Law on the Prevention of Corruption and the Law on the Complementary of the Act on Extraparary Procedure. These two laws, which are within the jurisdiction of the Justice Ministry, really only change one member at a time, but it is very important that we stress this in public. In the Anti-Corruption Act, it is specified which public officials are not subject to the prescribed duty of unambiguous premonition to the constituencies and to the public, the characteristics in which the public official comes forward, or whether he steps forward in relation to the membership and functions of the entity or in accordance with the function. So, the campaign's minister would have to especially in his address to point out whether he speaks as a minister or as a representative of a political organisation, a party. Therefore, this obligation excludes MPs, so directly elected officials, MPs in the republic's parliament, MPs in the province's parliament and committees in local parliaments. In addition to these three categories of directly elected persons, everyone else will have to rephrase unequivocally, jargonically, from which the shoes speak, from which the positions also refer to the President of the Republic, who has not yet been reported. Now that goes for the President of the Republic. In addition to the law on non-partisan proceedings, I have already mentioned this in the previous presentation. A person who partially deprives of business skills will have to have a special certificate based on the results of medical skill, whether this person is capable of exercising electoral law. It's about election laws and electoral matter. Something that is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, whose head I am, and we are really special right now, given that everything that we are talking about today will come into effect almost from the weekend, certainly from Monday, if we adopt by the end of the week, you will vote these bill proposals, but I must tell you that a very important segment of the work of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government refers to the position and wages of civil servants and we have a proposal for amending the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies. I know we're coming out of this election matter right now, but I'm asking you to listen to this very carefully, because we've been working on this for a long time. Therefore, the amendment of the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies proposed to amend the accounting coefficient, the payment of salaries of employees of employers who carry out auxiliary technical work in state authorities, is very important for these people who have really had low wages, low earnings, by correcting this coefficient we tried to meet, because both the deputies working both in the judiciary and in the state administration are doing a very important job without whose serious processes in the state, especially in the judiciary could not take place in this scope and quality. So this proposed law will make a difference with the jobs of the tenant for whom basic school is required and lower level of qualifications, whose paid salary has been equaled with the tenants whose jobs require secondary vocational education. Since the basis for the account of employees' salaries in the public administration's authorities has grown slower than the growth of minimum earnings, the basic salaries of tenants whose jobs are classified from the fourth to the sixth paying group remained below minimum earnings. This bill, following extensive consultations with the social partners, therefore with representative trade unions employed by state authorities, adopted their initiative to increase the coefficient of the tenants in view of the nature of their businesses and their contribution, as I said at the outset. These are the affairs of the judicial guards, dactylographs, suppliers, couriers, employees at the mail expedition and others, thereby making a significant contribution to the smooth functioning of courts and prosecutors in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In this way, we will be able to adequately distinguish between the evaluation of these different complexities. Let me just try to make it simple, though it's not a good idea when it comes to this kind of law. So, I have to tell you that some of these people had a base salary of 23,000 in the state administration, and now, according to this calculation, it would be about 28,000 dinars, so somewhere around 5,000 dinars more. I say, it's only on paper, these people will definitely receive minimum earnings in the Republic, in the judiciary too. But in this amount of between 5,000 and 6,000 dinars will be an increase for people who have worked on the position of the tenants, that is, in this time where we live a significant increase and indeed is the result of work, extensive consultations, and we have the special satisfaction of adopting this amendment of the law. Just one sentence about the Law of General Use. It's a law in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health. He was brought in April 2019. The concept of general use, conditions of health care, or safety that must meet general use items delivered to the market, is thus arranged. This law is in fact in line with the relevant EU rules in this area as far as possible, because it will enter into force, in full effect, only when we have the status of an EU Member State. In this way, only one transitional provision prescribed in Article 120 shall be removed. The law on cases of general use, which refers to the marking of a specific toy in that segment, but I will repeat again, at this point, that this member does not produce a legal fact until we become an EU Member State. Thank you for your attention. You've been very careful. It may have been too much to express, but once again, this was six electoral laws that define everything we're going to act on, I said, as of next Monday, so in a few days, and we're strictly going to stick to all of this from February 15th when it's expected to call presidential and republican, but also a few local elections. So I ask you also to be most dedicated in the discussion and to the public, because this is a short deadline for us to the public, to the citizens, and that will be the job of your MPs and certainly MPs in the province and at the council, to explain in our daily work with citizens what these changes are, and in particular all the people who influence this electoral process are members of election committees and observers and all those who are active in political parties, to explain how important these changes are and how this transparency and legality that we want to introduce these new proposals are something that has never been awarded to this extent by electoral legislation in the Republic of Serbia. I am particularly proud that I am someone who, in front of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, can present these solutions, because this is not at all something that can especially correspond to the ruling majority, but given the democracy and tolerance in which the political and this electoral process in Serbia should take place, I hope that everyone will appreciate it. Especially important are the parallel dialogues that happened inter-partyly, and all the time, all of us, during these days in the Republic Parliament, as we talk about these electoral laws, and later on in the field, we need to explain to the citizens how much effort we have made to get these bill proposals. So thank you for your attention, I will answer every question of yours during today's search, of course, in particular. Thank you again and I apologize to my colleague Kisić Tepavcevic for taking so long, but here I will listen to you very carefully. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12081	I thank Minister Obradovic above all for his comprehensive presentation. First one notice. In accordance with Article 27 and Article 87(2) and (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I give my word to the esteemed Minister Daria Kisic Tepavcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12082	Dear People's MPs, you have before you a bill on social entrepreneurship. This kind of business so far has not been legally regulated nor normative in any sense, so it is one newspaper, one significant innovation. In fact, the need to draw up this legal act is practically recognised, now within some time limits it can be measured for decades, but the law building itself began in 2010, so that I am extremely proud, as a resolute minister, of all the team that had enough strength, perseverance and knowledge to draft this law. What is social entrepreneurship? Social entrepreneurship is a special way of doing business where, as with any enterprise, the economic component is made. However, what is very important is the social dimension of this kind of business. Namely, through the income provided in these companies through the sale of products or services, there is always one part of the profit to be allocated for the purpose of fulfilling a particular social mission. In what way is it possible to implement it? It is possible, through the employment of those most vulnerable categories on the labour market, to directly single out part of the company's profits towards addressing certain social, economic and environmental challenges, as well as possible for this type of activity to be brought out through the direct provision of services in the community, particularly the most socially endangered categories. These companies, we have already said, have a special way of doing business and by activating them, we allow their untapped potential to be exploited in the community and to improve the situation of the very most socially vulnerable, and above all concerns the reduction of unemployment rates in those categories that are most vulnerable in the labour market. This law is based on a broader concept of social entrepreneurship, which implies that no new legal form is introduced in this way, but that the status of social entrepreneurship can be acquired by an entrepreneur, company, cooperative, association in the field of sport, association and other types of activity, foundation and other legal person who can meet the conditions laid down by this law. The specificities of the social enterprise entity are reflected in the achievement of the balance of social and economic objectives, in the accompanying decision-making, i.e. responsible management, in a different way of making the assets available, as well as the reporting obligations for fulfilling the social role. Also, this law provides for active support for these entities by the state both financially and financially, which will be established by a programme of development that brings the government for a period of five years. It also provides for the establishment of a specific social entrepreneurship council to be based on public and private sector partnerships and the professional public, which will provide clear guidance for the improvement of this sector. The bill recognises the very most socially sensitive categories in our society, as those groups of citizens who need additional systemic support in order to be evenly involved in all community life flows. Socially sensitive groups are persons in the social protection system, and then tend to employ unemployed persons, as well as other sensitive social groups set out in specific laws, such as categories of women from the village, victims of violence, persons with disabilities. The social role of social entrepreneurship is reflected in the production of goods and the provision of services, social, educational, health and labour integration and business that contributes to the sustainable development of devastated areas and local communities, as well as business that solves problems in other areas of social interest. The bill sets out a clear definition of who can acquire the status of a social entrepreneurship entity. The status may be acquired by an entrepreneur or by a legal person, a company, a cooperative, an association, an association in the field of sport, a foundation, as well as by another legal person who can meet the requirements laid down by law in the register of the Agency for Economic Registers. Given the specificity of social entrepreneurship which seeks to strike a balance between social and economic objectives, this law prescribes responsible governance in social entrepreneurship entities, so-called social entrepreneurship entities. Participatory decision-making, then the way in which the assets are made available, namely, the termination of the asset status is transferred to another entity of a solidarity enterprise, then the available profits that are reinvested or further donated, as well as the report on the fulfillment of the social role. Also, the bill also provides for active support for social entrepreneurship entities covering the implementation of different measures and activities aimed at supporting the employment and improvement of the business of these entities. The proposed law also provides for the adoption of a five-year programme for the development of social entrepreneurship, which will plan active support measures for social entrepreneurship entities, aimed at supporting employment and improving the business of social entrepreneurship entities, in order to survive in conditions of competition, as well as other measures in activities that provide both financial and non-financial support, in terms of education and promotional activities of these entities. The entry into force of this law, as we know, is scheduled on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", with it being applied over nine months from the date of its entry into force. Delayed application is necessary, given the time it takes for the Agency for Business Registers to adapt its software solutions to the needs of enrollment of social entrepreneurship status. We expect that the application of this law will contribute to strengthening the solidarity-based economy in our country and will have a strong impact on improving standards above all on the most socially vulnerable categories of population in our country. Also, this law represents a strong incentive environment for the development of all the most beautiful qualities in our people, which are industriousness, entrepreneurship, solidarity and humanity, which we all build together even more beautiful, stronger and more advanced Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12083	Thank you. The word has been given by the honourable MP Marijan Risticevic, who proposed the Law on Change and Completion of the Law on Arms and Ammunition. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12084	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on March 5th 2022, under the Law on Weapons and Ammunition, which is valid, expires the deadline for the replacement of armed papers and reregisteration, and hence, by the provisions of the same law, those who do not do so must return their weapons or their weapons will be taken away by writing appropriate criminal charges. In order for that not to happen, given that in the last two years the crown has been taking hold, my proposal is, and I am only a signer, my proposal is to extend the deadline for re-registration over the next two years, and so is the time for them to make a legal commitment. With that in mind, in that context, a new government will probably be elected after the election, someone will owe the Ministry of the Interior, and the condition is that if the need for the law to change more than it is now my proposal, i.e. that some legal provisions are made to be in favour of gun owners. We currently have 950,000 pieces of weaponry. That's 8% of the population, but we have 580,000 owners, which means we have about 6% to 7% of the people with guns. Currently, over 300 and some thousands of unregistered weapons lists, i.e. the owner of weapons, are about 350,000. You can imagine the crowds that would arise, not only at the Ministry of the Interior, but also at the medical boards, but also at the shooting sites, because it's an obligation when replacing the gun sheets that the owner has to undergo training, that means at the shooting range, and that the owner has to take out the doctor's confidence. With this in mind, my recommendation to the future Minister of the Interior, or the current, if he takes this place, to consider a doctorial belief that he will be a physician's confidence that will be valid until he is challenged by a doctor, because it is surprising that, let's say, when I took out the doctor's trust for the driver, that medical assurance of the "B" category was valid to me until 65, regardless of my health condition. So you had the right to receive medical assurance and your driver's license was valid until the age of 65. Also, I later took "C" and "E" and doctorial confidence for 40 years, despite being a professional driver's license, it's almost amazing for me that the gun owner has to go every five years. I think that in some future changes, which should be more extensive than this one of mine, trying or trying to install a provision to remove medical conviction once, but if the doctor, specialist or the chosen doctor were obliged to notify the internal affairs authority of any individual who no longer fulfils the conditions to hold the weapon, we would reduce the pain. I have to remind you that there are various gun owners. The law is as if it was written only for city gun owners who can easily come to the shooting range and who can very easily find a medical committee that conducts the examinations that are related to the current law. Imagine that the Albanians are shooting you out there at Kursumlia, that you have three old men in the whole village who have three hunting rifles defending a flock of wolves and savages and who are terrified of entering the administrative line from the entry of the Albanians who steal wood, and recently there was a great deal between our gendarmes and Albanian wood thieves. So you can imagine what it can do to protect the inhabitants of these villages that are very weakly inhabited. And secondly, the elderly have no interest in going to medical exams. On the other hand, they may find it difficult to be available to the shooters on which they are trained. I think anyone who's served a military term deserves to own a weapon. For example, in Switzerland, every soldier has a gun at home and two boxes of ammunition, and it can't touch it, because Switzerland doesn't have an army, but all Swiss are military. So you can imagine that even more advanced countries have far more weapons owners than Serbia currently has. I think we have the least problem with registered weapons and registered gun owners, and that if we don't supplement this law a little in the future, which I'm just adding that in the next two years we don't have to replace the gun sheets, and I'm giving time not only to the owners, but also to the future ministry to eventually complete the law, and that what I've brought out as an irregularity to try to install into some new changes. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's very important that we have armed fighters, because Mr. Posh is our future candidate, he has left us only hunters as the greatest armed force. It was Chief of General Staff, an officer, a rapidly promoted officer, by the rank of me, I think, the husband of the sister-in-law of Agim Ceku and Boris Tadic, or, somehow, a rapidly promoted officer, who was working on disarmament of the army, as if he were allergic to weapons. Let me remind you that recently Serbia acquired a tank killer. The Serbian tank killer is called "Kornet". Do you know the name of the Croatian tank killer? It's called "The Pride." - Hello, Pride. The Cornet probably cost us far more than Zdravko Ponos cost the Croats. Zdravko Ponoš worked, there's a general there, so let him say whether I was right or wrong, on a well-armed army, which is why the hunting society, or the hunting alliance, was in his time the greatest armed force in our country. Zdravko Ponos worked not on Serbia's military neutrality, but on military neutrality, or a well-armed army, which he did. There are hundreds of tanks missing. This is the last thing that's left of Zdravko Poš and the security guards, I have to say, that they warned me that I should get it back, and I said, "Don't, don't, it's my army weapon, the only thing that's left of the Pride, don't take it away from me. So, Zdravko Ponos, a NATO pact candidate whose candidacy only needs to be signed by Gilas, must be warned of the following. I am a peasant man, I was an MP from 2000 to 2003, then they killed my prime minister and then they killed us who lived in Serbia and that you know that he was involved, Mr. Djukanovic, M-6 and the CIA. Are you going to tell me, those of you who deal with security matters, are you going to tell me that Milo Djukanovic and his Zvicer, have decided, on their own, to plan the assassination without knowing the CIA and the M-6? Is there anyone in the O.R. to believe that? That's why this NATO candidate's bid for a well-armed Serbian army is well tied up with the possibility of assassination, as an election campaign goes on. A healthy Man of the Living Alexander Wolf can't win. The other thing I'm not going to say, because, God forbid something happens again that I experienced in 2003. But you have to keep that in mind, that M-6 and the CIA know where all the devils sleep. So they had to know about Zvicer's intentions, that is, his political sponsor, Milo Djukanovic. The drug clans allegedly killed the prime minister. And this second assassination is supposed to be a drug clan plan. The drug clan, to warn you, is only Lee Oswald, remember, who served the CIA, as Lee Oswald served in the Kennedy murder. I warn you of Zdravko Poša that he is not harmless and that he agrees with everything. I'll just remind you that he's a very big listening master. So, these headphones, I'll give him a present when he loses his election convincingly. He was listening to Jeremiah himself. Because that conversation between Rocen and Jeremic was probably recorded by Zdravko Ponos. Just to remind you that Zdravko Ponoš and the official, not only Jeremic's party and Gilas's candidate, but Zdravko Ponos, ladies and gentlemen, was also an official of his association called CIRST, a centre for what, Zdravko Ponos was the president of the association's assembly and now has the position of senior adviser Jeremic. So, Jeremic allowed, because Gilas, on behalf of NATO, had to run for NATO, for he had to, because Ponoš knew a lot about Jeremic and he knows about his contacts with white-world criminals of the type Patrick Ho. You tie it all up, and I'm asking you to vote for this gun law to extend the deadline, so that all 580,000 gun owners can be legal after 5 March, because it's the only armed force left over after the Mosquito, because who knows what the Mosquito can do after that, and I believe that we're going to bring in an even better law in some future, than I have now suggested. I only suggested that two years should be extended for the replacement of armed papers and that all owners be legal, that we don't have to hijack their weapons after March 5th and write them applications. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12085	I thank the honourable MP Marijan Rističević. We're moving on to authorized reports from the committees in charge. The first is the chairman of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, the honourable MP and the chairman of the Committee, Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12086	I thank you, Chairman, for helping God all. Mrs. Obradovic, I don't understand why you read and explained all these bill proposals with so much enthusiasm. You need to tell the public what this is all about. These are bill proposals, which can be called election laws to limit normal participation by the SNS or the ruling party in the election campaign. In fact, what we're introducing, this has never been introduced by anyone, and I don't think any ruling party in the world has introduced this, and that's basically that we are the complete control of the electoral process, which in the polls themselves, which is, at all, in election commissions, so if you want to, and we completely leave it to the opposition. Serbian citizens need to know this, this is what is left to the opposition and the SNS, as the ruling party is completely eliminated from everything. Why did we do that? The right to tell you in person, I don't know, but I'm going to vote for this, for one single reason only, because they've been hooking up so much, they've been whining about how terrible their electoral conditions are, that they have no martyrs anywhere to say anything, etc. And now they've been given everything. They insisted that even those European representatives come, and then they even drove those European representatives away, even though they swore to their democracy. Now they've been given everything, and they can't say anything that's wrong with them. We gave them all this, and they'd give them even more, because we're convinced we're going to beat them. We are convinced that on April 3rd, we will win again. Why? The reason is crucial, because if we offer people something, there's some program, some results, and we did something, and they didn't do anything, they were eaten by hate. Their candidates go on TV and say they're incapable of doing their job. You can give them any election conditions you want. I'm just surprised you didn't get into the law, let's just say, the opposition has a 20% head start, and we have to catch up to them, which, so you could say, or say you forbid SNS officials to even participate in a campaign and be on TV at all, and that they can say something somewhere, because you've limited 90% of our parties anyway, because they're public officials, they can't participate in a campaign anywhere. Only the MPs can, and it is now limited from the time of the election, because you always have to make it a paid term and give it money, which is not usually small, to host somewhere. So we completely kicked our party out of the election campaign and made it possible for the opposition to do everything, so I'm just surprised that you didn't ban it until the end, you should have completely banned us from participating in the election campaign. But despite that, I'm going to vote for something like this on purpose, because I'm convinced of our victory. I'm convinced that people are looking at the results and that people appreciate what has been done and regardless of these anti-conditions for us, the disastrous conditions for us, as the ruling party, and I repeat, nobody has ever done this, I wonder if anyone in their day ever thought of doing this. This is not any democracy, it's absolute liberalism and permission of anyone who isn't even in parliament, that you have everything he wants, and that whoever's in power, there's nothing, and that's practically cut off completely in the campaign, but despite that, and whatever these scandalous conditions are for us, we're going to beat them convincingly because we're going to get to every man and because we're not ashamed of Marin's bars, or the Lazarec, or the Sopota, or we're elite, or we're playing some kind of fake elite. We are ordinary people who love their people, who are not ashamed to come to the peasants and say goodbye to them and do not pretend to be giants that are supposed to rise above the ordinary world. We love our people and respect everyone who does something. We'll come to every village, every village. We'll go see every man. That's how you run the campaign. We want people to see us. They're ashamed not to get their parlour shoes smudged in the mud somewhere, so something doesn't get dirty. We're not ashamed of it, we want to get to every man. Our campaign will be that, and here's all the media. There's something else I need to say. I'm a big supporter, and I don't understand why it wasn't introduced to end electoral silence. This relic, this pointless relic that has existed for years -- electoral silence in the era of social networks -- that's the stupidest thing there is. But it also makes it difficult for us not to lift the electoral silence for the next reason – because the electoral silence will not apply to "N1" and "New S", because they are registered in Luxembourg and can broadcast whatever they want, and on other TVs there will be electoral silence and you will not be able to mate it. I say again, here I call upon you to perhaps think until the end that, eventually, some amendment is submitted that, at least to shorten it for one day or to completely end it, because it is the most pointless category that exists in the era of social networks and in the era of the Internet, that there is electoral silence. In any case, I will vote, and as rapporteur, I call on everyone else to vote for these laws just to completely cut ourselves off and make ourselves impossible, to have normal conditions in the campaign, because in such conditions we will surely beat them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12087	Thank you. Minister Marija Obradovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12088	Mr. Djukanovic, I'm glad you said so, because just in this discussion between me and you, if there is, here is my answer now only to your comment will show the strength of the Serbian Progressive Party. You have, especially in the public, recently recognised as someone who expressed a lot of different views before we made a decision, of course, in the Serbian Progressive Party that we will plead on certain topics. This really shows the degree of democracy both in our party and in our society otherwise, however people comment or want to play it. Let me make it simple. You said I was exhilarating. Excitingly, let's say we can use that word, but on the other hand, I'm coming out of the minister's position here. The minister has no right while in that position to be party-stricken, that is the position I represent, and he is a minister to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and must equally allow the right of every citizen of Serbia. On that side, by acting in the Minister's shoes, I did explain this law in such a proud way, because we all came out of the comfort zone, and the hardest thing in private life, especially in business, to get out of the comfort zone, when you have some acquired rights, benefits in which you swim well, and then you need to come out and make it possible for yourself to be even more democratic, tolerance, legality, especially this election process. On the third hand, I believe you understand me. I'm not sure if you'd be the minister defending these laws to make it all look like it or maybe you'd do the same thing I did. On the other hand, this law doesn't say what I personally feel, and I feel the same way about your attitude. So, if indeed the SNS, the ruling majority of such bill proposals are practically, as you say, I don't know if I'm going to exactly quote you, kicked out of the election process, each of our appearances, officials, representatives, SNS activists, will be considered maltenes as a violation of the election process. I feel the same as you on the subject, but the atmosphere is such that we had to get out of the comfort zone and that indeed some legal solutions that are in line with the recommendations of the international community and these two parallel inter-party dialogues that we have conducted with and without the participation of the MEPs have shown a special effort on our part. It's all something that we weren't bound to do, but we showed our tolerance, democracy, willingness to compromise, a given hand so that Serbia could really keep going at the speed it goes. You yourself, Mr. Djukanovic, have repeatedly told him that you could never be in the position of Alexander Vukic as statesman, president of the state, certainly also as party president, because you too resented him for being democratic, that he is prone to compromise, to accept something that you, as one very passionate political activist and political fighter, is often not clear enough. You said it wasn't something you could handle ahead. That's why there are different positions, and we're all different that sometimes we're willing to wear a position and get into shoes, some roles, private or business. This is what the SNS force, or the ruling majority, is looking at, and it says that SNS is a "kech ol" party where all are different, where the ministers who are in the government of the Republic of Serbia who are different, different profiles, different attitudes, different character. And with you as a messenger. Nice to meet you again. I personally think very much like you. I am now in the Minister's shoes, and I must show what is the face of the legislative party in the framework of electoral matter, when it comes to Serbia. This is something the international community praised, which is the result of an agreement with the opposition. It is not easy for us, but only in difficult situations do you show how broad, serious, committed and how difficult you can make a step for your country and get it out of the difficult crisis that opposition representatives have introduced the state to at the moment. I hope that in the upcoming period in the opposition, we will have associates, any kind of opposition, because we have two, three wings in the opposition, that we will have associates that really this difficult period in a country that is not only about election processes, but also about difficult economic and energy situations, but also about security in the world, that Serbia is somehow getting through and coming out of this difficult period. So in that light, the role of your terrible address, I see only in the sense that it is necessary to remind people that this is not something that we are too happy about, but it is the result of compromise and that is what serious politicians do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12089	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12090	Thank you. Mrs. Obradovic, it's not about whether I'm happy or unhappy, I just wanted to show people what this is about. Dear Serbian citizens, our party's future campaign will be like this, someone's shooting at your feet, and then he's making you run. So we're totally cutting ourselves off here in the campaign. But I say, I will vote for this, only because it bothers me even more about such a campaign where we give full control of the opposition's electoral process and what organizations come from Europe, the world, media surveillance, etc. where they are completely dominated, and in such conditions we will defeat them. It bothers me more to beat them. So I ask people to vote for this, that they can never tell us anything that they're not allowed to do. At all polling stations, the opposition will have more people than we will have. As far as the media is concerned, their control is absolute. It's not about passion. I don't know what this is about. It's just about telling people that no one in the world has ever introduced this. This is the first time that some government completely eliminates itself in a way that has any involvement or influence in the election process. (Alexandra Tomic: Equal influence. ) About equal influence, dear colleague, we can't even talk, there's no such thing as an equal influence. So, that's what I'm talking about. That's what I want to say to the public. So I ask our voters, please, all the people who love this party, who love this country to go to elections and show them in this situation how much they are worthless and that their campaign is the only hatred for Vukic and "Ua Vukic" and that someone here has shown the results. We're gonna beat them, I'm sure of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12091	Thank you. Minister Marija Obradovic has the word: Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12092	Not to be translated entirely into your side, but something in favor of your discussion, to make a joke, so jargonous. The public needs to know that the opposition will have more than 16,000 members of election committees across Serbia and more, of course, this is a minimum. This is a minimum -- 16 thousand people in Serbia will follow ahead of the opposition as members of a permanent election board, plus observers. So, absolutely never had a chance like this, and I don't want anyone to say that anything has been messed up, that something has been planted, that irregularities by the ruling majority have arisen in the polling stations. It is always possible, but not in the beginning of this atmosphere that is being created and not in the beginning of this atmosphere that we will certainly have stolen elections and that we should certainly prepare for camping throughout Serbia. These laws absolutely show this and that is why I understand why my colleague Djukanovic speaks this way, but we should repeat it in every place. So over 16,000 people. They can't say they don't have access, they don't have the power to control. Whether they have enough people to sign up for controllers, that's another story, but they need to know there's no room for their story so far, nor is there any chatter and announcement of people in advance that they camp across Serbia dissatisfied with the election results. They can be dissatisfied with their sloth, and I also see it perfectly in situations where opposition parties at this point are trying to make changes in the register of political organisations, how lazy they are, how unserious they are in the collection of documentation, when they do not respect deadlines. So I understand that they are not seriously experiencing political life or preparation. For them, party political infrastructure is nothing. They're just interested in the media, insulting Alexander Vukic, his family, his politics, and I don't think they're gonna make it this time, so it's great, fellow Djukanovic, to keep talking about how much space the opposition has given more than ever.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12093	Thank you. Proposer of the law Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12094	As the legislator of the Arms Act, I should say that armed persons have no right to be members of the electoral committees, or that with personal weapons they cannot enter and try to supplement, because the minister only provided information on permanent members of the election committees. In the Republic Election Commission, they have the six additional honours of the ruling majority, which is unremembered. For six RIK members, I am talking about RIK, you need, say, 80 to 90 MPs in the National Assembly, but the Serbian Progressive Party has insisted that six members of the RIK bow to them. As far as election committees are concerned, they will be given these 16,000 members and deputy members of the election boards, but in an extended membership with the same rights, they will have as many electoral lists as they will have, and they will always have a majority in the previous elections, and now they will have, in an extended composition with the same rights. It's somewhere, about, by my estimate, 320,000 members of the election board, and there will be one 26 members in the Republic Election Commission, which means they will have an absolute majority in all election bodies and there will be no theft without the Republic Election Commission. If, God forbid, he is, and in those bodies they will have a convincing majority, the government is not holding elections, the citizens should know that too, my fellow hunters, the Republic Election Commission and the electoral committees are holding elections, and the government only allows for the space in which election committees, election committees will reside and where the vote will be held. So, the government can't steal the election, and if God doesn't let the theft happen, even the ruling majority can't steal the election, it can only be an opposition, because they will have most of the electoral committees and the RIK because that's what the Serbian Progressive Party has given them. I wouldn't give it to them personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12095	Thank you. President of the Committee on European Integration, MP Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12096	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents, Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the General Use Act was adopted in 2019, in April and in this period from 2019 to 2021 there was so-called The transitional period and, as we heard it, the time of adoption and until then this law has received a positive opinion from the European Commission. However, then the European Commission's comments came that as soon as we have to amend this law, or to delete the transitional provision relating to product labelling by means of a Serbian sign of conformity in the transitional period, and that this is one only condition in order to open another chapter, Chapter 1, that the negotiating group working on this issue has received this recommendation and the Committee on European Integration has otherwise welcomed the session, which we are actually meeting this one of the conditions for opening another chapter and that we were able to realize that the law is in fact fully in line with EU rules, as is this part or proposal for amending the law fully in line. Therefore, the Committee on European Integration certainly supports this proposal on the agenda, but I would also take the opportunity to stress on behalf of the Committee on European Integration what it is called in the European Parliament, the IPD or inter-party dialogue with the European Parliament's co-fassiliators, as the Committee found that the new European Parliament President Robert McColi had recently held a meeting with the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Brnabic, asked almost exclusively how the implementation of what was agreed on the inter-party dialogue with Europarliamentarians. The Honorable Minister has already presented the facts here, and I believe that today we will talk more than once about how long this process is actually going on. It started from the end of 2019, but if we base ourselves on this year and this National Assembly meeting, from March until today there were three rounds. The last round was over last week, when the former and current MEPs were in Serbia to check the implementation of the measures agreed on September 18th of this year and certainly the Committee on European Integrations from the European integration points of view rejoiced that they realised that the measures were implemented and that this session today and these bill proposals were actually the result. Of course, they have had several more and not so small remarks at these meetings, but also a misunderstanding and we hope, since we see that there are several amendments in the assembly procedure, that, in accordance with the agreement, the government will get a positive opinion and that we will still go in that direction, which is proposed by the European Parliamentarians. We know that this process is not over, that it is agreed that after the election, work will continue on these issues. Furthermore, I must stress that it is not less important, since the Committee on European Integration has worked intensively in this meeting and we have held two plenary sessions on the European Commission Report on Serbia, but it is not less important for the European Parliament's resolution on Serbia, and we have had a session where we have invited the rapporteur himself. We know that the rapporteur is one of the co-facilitators and he stressed that he is actually waiting for us to adopt these laws, to see what their application is and of these issues and from the application of these new regulations actually depends on what the resolution on Serbia, whose first version plans to be published at the end of April. So after the election to be held in Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12097	Thank you. The word has the chairman of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, National MP Dr Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12098	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, is true that, based on many of these draft laws we have had the opportunity to hear, there is an entirely unequal relationship between political entities that will take part in the next campaign, but it is also true that the greatest responsibility is always in place for the parties leading the state and having the highest degree of responsibility. It is true that opposition parties are located in a comfortable position and it is true that we will have complete inequality when it comes to the media exposure of political entities, members of the SNS will be counted every second and minute. Those led by Gilas, Jeremic and others simply won't have that counter. On the other hand, it is true that we will have to have a property in the outreach of every political player precisely to define, but do not forget that we have really shown one great democratic capacity, because all that the results of the negotiations of the extra-parliamentary parties and those who wanted to be under the mediators of the European Parliament and those who did not want the participation of European parliamentarians in these talks with the ruling coalition have simply reached certain conclusions and documents and these documents have been implemented, especially when it comes to amending and supplementing the Law on the prevention of corruption, and especially when it comes to the proposals of these laws when it comes to the election of both presidents and MPs and local parliaments. It is very important that the Law on the financing of political activities is passed, according to the most modern standards that exist today in developed countries. Why am I saying this? The first law was passed in 2011, amendments and additions in 2014 and 2019. All the time between 2003 and 2017, there were recommendations from both the OSCE and ODIR and the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, which were spoken of – no, not enough, no, not enough to meet the standards that are in force in the world, so we, according to all their recommendations, had NGOs and associations here in the elections that received MPs and only the first on the list took full money for all MPs and had it with them as he wanted. So in 2017, we had money, if you remember, on the accounts of an NGO running for presidential candidate, if you remember, Vuk Jeremic. So no one was in control of the way that it really should apply to all equal players when it comes to the election campaign. That is why I think it is very important that the Law on the financing of political activities is new, 51 members, strict rules on how money is spent, great transparency, great responsibility for political entities and criminal policies, which did not exist. So we're going to have to get every actor to give an indicative spending plan if he wants money from the pre-election campaign budget, he's going to have to report to the Corruption Prevention Agency, and then we're going to have to give a final report on all this, and he's going to get funding if he reaches one over 1% in the electoral body. The tax administration is now the first time to introduce its reports, extraordinary reports and a plan to control the spending of these funds, which has not been the case so far and is subject to all the legal obligations that all the legal entities present have, when it comes to the work of the tax administration at all. What's important is that for the first time we have the assets of political parties at our disposal. It cannot be under the system of giving, but must be given a certain monetary value if it wants a particular party to give what is held as the property of that political party, if it wants to alienate. It can't happen, as we had the case for Gilas, that he simply took a certain guarantee for the mortgage of the natural person's apartment, so that he went to the polls through certain loans, but now there's so-called. the political electoral guarantee that the political party takes when it comes to elections, that the level of funds is precisely defined, secondly, that all loans must go through business banks. No more campaign funding from abroad through NGOs, so this is used for campaigns for political entities or politics or for presidential candidates. So everything will be subject to a simple court of citizens and the court of all state authorities, which laws simply exist in this state. And it is very important to say that every political entity will choose the way it will operate in accordance with the law and ultimately, that the humanitarian services that certain organisations have had can no longer function as a political party and that all public ads that have their own campaign must be signed by political entities. I'm sorry, the chairman, which may have been extensive, but it is very important to say that this is the only way and the mechanism and obligations on which we will ensure equal status for everyone that this race, which is unfair and exactly what Mr. Djukanovic said, can run out all political entities. We as the ruling party trust in the support of the citizens of Serbia and therefore simply agree in this way to show the world that we are not afraid of any standards that we are introducing, which they are asking of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12099	The word has a deputy president of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12100	Thank you, esteemed chairman. Dear Ministers, guests of the National Assembly, fellow Members and MPs, the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty at its session discussed the proposal for a Law on Social Entrepreneurship, unanimously adopted the proposed law and, of course, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Bill on Social Entrepreneurship in the day of voting. Why? Because for the first time, the social economy is being introduced into the legal framework of the Republic of Serbia. For the first time in the period of power of Alexander Vukic and these governments, the social economy and social entrepreneurship are gaining importance. Why? Because, thanks to the measures implemented by Aleksandar Vukic in 2014, Serbia has economically strengthened, Serbia has laid the foundation, if Serbia is viewed as one house, the foundation of each house is the economy. Serbia is on a healthy economic basis today. So today we move forward and we propose a law like this, which is one of the goals of achieving the social economy. Of course, I would like to point out that by 2012 there was no word on the social economy, or social economy, may have been just a mental noun, although I do not believe it was, because at the time of the robber Dragan Gilas and his various employees, the economy of this country, or the care of the citizens at all, was in the last place. The social economy for us is important from this aspect because one of the social economy's priorities is actually social benefit, not profit and personal wealth, as it is one of the basic postulates of the economy in general. Of course, profits are also significant in social enterprises, but I reiterate that the general social benefit, not the personal benefit, is the fundamental postulate of the social economy. I would also like to stress that the social economy and social entrepreneurship aim to involve, i.e. the inclusion of particularly sensitive and vulnerable groups, and these vulnerable and vulnerable groups are all users of the social protection system, harder persons employed, members of certain ethnic communities, such as Roma population. By 2012, Dragan Gilas had absolutely no interest in particularly sensitive and particularly vulnerable groups, and hence he did not just do anything for this population, but apparently robbed them. How did he rob it? He robbed children distracted by the construction of the Hetherland Castle in Vienna, by taking the money and renovating and adapting the castle was never achieved. This was achieved by the Provincial Government, because the Regional Government and the Serbian Government in general have responsibilities for all categories of population. Dragan Gilas, in the worst possible way, violated basic human rights, particularly sensitive minorities, which is a Roma national minority, in that they existed, but in fact they did not really exist, because they did not have a copy of the birth book, had no personal documents, had no right to social and health protection. In this way, he brutally threatened the right to live and survive the Roma national minority. We have corrected about 30,000 people, the largest number of them, thanks to the amendments and additions of the Law on the outsider procedure, have exercised the right to their personal documents, and therefore to other rights that belong to them by law. What I'm trying to say is that the Social Entrepreneurship Act is important from the aspect of poverty reduction and employment growth of particularly sensitive social groups. On the issue of unemployment cuts, the government and President Aleksandar Vukic did a lot, as unemployment was 25.9% during the tycoon regime of Dragan Gilas. Now unemployment is a one-digit thing. I want to say that this law is aimed at reducing poverty and I must point out that all international institutions say that despite the pandemic of the covids, there has been no increase in poverty in Serbia. It is the merit and politics of Alexander Vukic, but also the merit of this government. What is significant, this law is not only aimed at integration, i.e. involvement in the work of socially sensitive groups, but also at measures to protect the environment, then developing particularly sensitive and rural areas. The message we want to send to citizens is to take care of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, especially those most vulnerable and vulnerable, and not only to worry, but to provide financial and non-financial support and assistance to make every citizen of the Republic of Serbia feel satisfied, to work, to achieve income and have a meaningful and normal life. In the focus of SNS, the policies of Aleksandra Vucic is a happy and satisfied citizen of the Republic of Serbia, no matter what category he belonged to, and this is specifically about particularly sensitive and vulnerable categories. That is why I call on all citizens and I call on the citizens of this population to have no dilemma in the elections on 3 April, but to support Alexander Vukic's policy and the SNS list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12101	Thank you. The word is from the chairman of the Health and Family Committee, MP Dr Darko Laketic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12102	Thank you. The President-in-Office, honourable ministers and fellow Members of Parliament, I am above all obliged to inform the citizens and inform the MPs that we have held a session of the Committee on Health and Family and have practically unanimously supported amendments to the Law on General Uses. I will explain why we did this and why it is necessary to adapt our legislation to EU law. First of all, all that is significant and all that is useful to our country, my view is that it should be adopted. Anything that will make the state of Serbia more modern in any way, make its legislation not only more modern but more efficient, it certainly needs to be adopted. I will also remind the public that we have been back, for how many years now, every law that has been passed in this assembly, every law, I am talking about health packages of law, which has been discussed in this house, has previously been adapted to EU legislation. I would like to remind you that the Health Protection Act, this roof law, the Health Insurance Act, the Transit Medicine Act, medical records and documentation, etc., each of them has been adapted and agreed. What is particularly significant is the opening of this chapter of the 28 health and what is particularly important, regarding this chapter, is that this alignment will give us high safety of certain subjects, medical subjects, we will also get, not only high security, but one, I would say, a much more significant control in this sector, in this area. The most important thing is, essentially, we'll have a more satisfied citizen, a more satisfied man who uses the services of that system. What is very important is that, as part of the opening of this chapter and as part of adapting our legislation, I am talking about health legislation, there are very sensitive areas in health care. I'm talking about the production of sterile medical products here and I'm talking about the production of blood products. For these two highly sensitive areas will be a special regime, i.e. we will have extra time to adapt, and this is particularly important, and I absolutely welcome this moment for the reason that in this additional period of adaptation we will be able to further adapt these sensitive branches of our health system and further in some future period of affirmation for development. Finally, I would say that these laws and these amendments are an adequate example of how the government understands its obligations, how the government of the Republic of Serbia is experiencing its commitments, so in a very thorough and serious way. Everything that has been taken over must be respected and ultimately implemented through legal solutions. I wish you happy work and hope for a unanimous adoption of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12103	Thank you. The word has a rapporteur in front of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, MP Ilija Matejic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12104	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable government representatives and, most importantly, the respected peoples of the Republic of Serbia, I would take the opportunity to express my condolences for the late Xenia Vukic. I mean, I had the honor of meeting that woman and she made a beautiful impression on me. It's a beautiful, smart, eloquent woman who gave me and the other young people who were there some lessons we'll probably remember for the rest of our lives. To her is eternal glory, and to her family and to President Alexander Vukic, but also to her children, Daniel and Milic, I want them to recover from such a loss as soon as possible, if possible. As far as these draft laws are concerned, the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee is sitting and we have decided that all the proposed laws are in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. We can divide them into two groups – laws concerning electoral conditions and those concerning investment in our country. As for election conditions, I will only remind myself that it was the SNS that reduced the electoral censorship from 5% to 3% in February 2020 and thus allowed the opposition to enter the National Assembly more easily. They did not take advantage of that completely pointless boycott, and under the pretext that there are no electoral conditions, that they are not in the media etc, which was absolutely not true. As for their guests in the media, they play an interesting game here. Namely, they get an invitation to participate in a show, they refuse, and they complain that they are nowhere or go to, say, "Sword by word" where they are usually welcomed by some young SNS man and completely destroyed by arguments. So they need to work on it, and they actually did, and then what hurts them is what hurts them, and now, what they don't have, that crown condition for going to the elections, which is that the people want them, that the people want to vote for you, that you did something for them. As far as election conditions are concerned, in history since there has been a multi-party in the Republic of Serbia, since 1990, no member of the extra-parliamentary opposition has been a member of the Republic Election Commission, or RIK, and now has six. And as for the electoral committees themselves, the opposition will have in each polling post in the Republic of Serbia between eight and ten members, if not more, and there will probably be more. Why am I saying all this now? Well, I see that in Serbia slowly ahead of the elections, as before each election, tension rises to eventually the party that lost blame these others for some electoral theft and get into the streets and make a mess. We had these unloved pictures when a cop last year was broken both his legs, when they were shot with stones, etc. We see that, for example, in the case of this man, Sava Manojlovic, who graduated from the same university as me. So he's a graduate environmental lawyer. He spoke first -- here, you as a National Assembly, change the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative, and we will stop protesting. We have changed, and he says, "Now forbid Rio Tinto." We lifted their licenses, and he continued the protests. Now he says, "Well, now introduce the moratorium to the excavation of lithium and Bora for 20 years, and then we will stop." So, it is clear that the protests are a goal in themselves, that the right conditions for protests are not, that election conditions are never better. There were no such electoral conditions, never anywhere else in Europe. And I'm saying, part two of the law is more important to me personally, it's about raising wages, pensions and investment. We raise our palaces to our civil servants, raise our pensions as we said we would raise them, and I will remind our people that yesterday are social cases, that today the young have received 100 euros from their country, that our pensioners will receive 20,000 dinars of one-time aid already in mid-February and continue to invest. So that means new roads, new railways, new hospitals, new schools and new factories. We opened 260 new factories in the previous period. Opening a new factory in Serbia is no longer news, but has become normal. So we are fighting to build and restore Serbia, to fight to raise the standard of our population, to build from our country a nicer, more modern and stronger Serbia, and if we keep doing this, and we will, Serbia will soon be one of the strongest, if not the strongest state in the entire Balkans. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12105	Thank you. We are moving on to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12106	Thank you. Dear President, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Honored Minister Obradovic, Honored Minister Kisic Tepavcevic, Honored Representatives of the Government, Citizens and Citizens, before I look back on today's agenda, I would like to take this opportunity and express my deepest condolences to the death of my first wife, Ksenija Vukic, through this family of the President of the Republic of Serbia. What has made a special impression on me is that, unfortunately, and in such a tragic situation, the premature death of a mother, certain people find the need to insult political inexperience and even to rejoice and rejoice. It's something I want to tell citizens and citizens, to think carefully about who wants to lead our country and what kind of brains they are in these people. I want to look back, the last time we had a meeting here, we talked a lot about the situation in Priboj and after that session, the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, visited Priboj. I want to thank him. As someone living in Prijepolje in the neighbouring municipality, it means I am often in Priboj, as a representative of the strongest Bosniak party in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. It is a state move, a move that proves that everything, essentially proves that citizens and citizens are equal and that this state belongs to all and the majority Serb people, but also to minority communities, Bosniaks, Hungarians, Albanians and all others. I want to thank Minister Obradovic and a lot of ministers were in Priboj that day. What made a special impression on me was that the day was religious dignitaries, the top head of the Islamic community in Serbia, Mufti Dudic sat next to the bishop of the Milosevic Atanasia and we got from religious dignitaries also a message of peace. I want to say that we Muslims in the Republic of Serbia are proud that our spiritual leader, Mufti Dudic, and everything he said that day, we absolutely support. I can say that what he did with the visit to Priboj, President Vukic, was not characteristic of some previous authorities. Let's remember, and I'm saying this primarily because of my Bosniak people, because of all citizens and citizens in the Republic of Serbia, that in 2010, Boris Radic sent Gendarmeria to kidnap one plot of the Islamic community and used special units to deal with imams. Not that he didn't come, not that he didn't give his hand that he was talking so he could see what he was doing, whether it's important to use a cadastrian problem in such an international environment, in a thorny area, a special unit. No, I don't. He didn't want to talk. He sent a man to Gendarmes. It is important that we make a partnership, not because the MP Tandir or the Justice and Reconciliation party is part of the ruling majority or not, but because of the truth. What did Vojislav Kostunica do in 2007? He sent the police to the mosque. Not that he didn't talk, not that he didn't send some state secretary or a low-level clerk, no, he sent the police to seduce the mosques. That wasn't so long ago, ten, twelve and thirteen years ago. So it's the president's move and coming to the Priory stateside. I know in conversation with colleagues from the Government of the Republic of Serbia that everything agreed and discussed on that day, that it goes through certain dynamics, and that some decades-long issues, open issues and problems will be resolved to the satisfaction of all citizens and citizens, we have proven that Priboj is a multiethnic environment, where we have indeed had some incidents, but that these are isolated incidents of individuals and that the system institutions have shown their strength and have instilled additional trust for all citizens and citizens. Also, I would like to refer to a dirty campaign that is being conducted in certain media and against the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to say the experience of our parliamentary group and my own, that the Prime Minister is a person who is truly professional, committed to his work and I want to thank her personally and her cabinet, that we are a large number of open issues concerning the lives of citizens and citizens in the part of the country where I come from, means Sanjak municipalities, when it comes to ecology and when it comes to infrastructure problems and when it comes to some life problems such as childcare supplements for medres, that they are resolved through her Cabinette. If we talk about how she's doing her job, my humble opinion is excellent and I thank you for this opportunity and for this reason we voted for the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As regards the set of laws that we are talking about today, the Justice and Reconciliation Party, ricket President Zukorlic and counterpart Jahja and I took part in all the talks that began in 2019 at the university and through one and another track and when it came to the intermediation of European parliamentarians and without the intermediation of European parliamentarians. The Justice and Reconciliation Party has offered its platform in these talks. We think it's a good thing we talked about. Simply when we talk about the election history teaches us that there is no party that has lost the election and that she said – well, we lost the election because we have a worse program, we've done bad work, we have bad candidates. They just point their fingers at the winners and say, "Well, this is some kind of theft. We are not here, neither the state of Serbia, nor the Balkan space, nor this part of Europe, Southeast Europe, the South-West Balkans, can call what we will, specifically. So, in 2016, when democratic candidate Hillary Clinton lost the US election, she said she was a victim of a hybrid war and that some foreign forces simply influenced the regularity of the US elections, and so it remained until today. She's sticking to her attitudes. The entire term of President Trampa was marked by him winning the stolen election. In 2020, when democratic candidate and current president Joseph Biden, who lost, said he was also stolen from public opinion polls and today you have one third of the least polling bodies in the United States that claim orthodox that the elections were staged, that they were stolen, etc. So we're not specific here. It's just that it always happens when you have a game where the one who loses in most cases says that the judge is guilty or that the field wasn't good, or I don't know that the ball wasn't well high, etc. So in politics and sports and all other segments of life. What I want to point out is that, on the proposal of President Mufti Zukorlic's rickets, it was adopted that the parties to the minority communities were sufficient to hand over 5,000 signatures, not 10,000 signatures, as has been the case so far. It was indeed one discriminatory decision. This is a big step forward. I congratulate both the government and all the colleagues who participated in this process. According to the latest census, one third of citizens and citizens in the Republic of Serbia are representatives of minority communities, and there are not so many here in parliament. For us as one, let me say, organised both communities and foreigners may not be very much in favour of us, but we believe that this is one civilizational step, that this is one democratic fluid that we all should be proud of, which, in the next session of Parliament, I hope, we will have more representatives of national communities and that Parliament will certainly be more representative. As for some of the concrete things we've discussed, I want first of all to highlight the media presentation. So I especially want to point out the behaviour of the Media Public Service, which cannot only treat the authorities and the opposition and parties that have their headquarters in Belgrade. So, through problems, through the shows, it can't just be a "Faith Calendar" and a "Citizen" show, please, in some of the times that are far from prime. So, we as a parliamentary party, as the strongest Bosniak party, are absolutely dissatisfied that the Media Public Service has the treatment of our party, but also other national minorities and issues like the economy, and the foreign-political orientation and, I don't know, Serbia, between the East and the West and European integration and, I don't know, the infrastructure that you want the topics are themes concerning both minority communities and parties and that's something I expect to change that policy, and you don't call representatives of any opposition, I don't mind, and in fact, these are some kind of van of parties that have no three committees, and you have parliamentary parties that have three, four, five, six, I don't know and more, Members of the people, but are not hosting any of any kind of a show. That's absolutely unacceptable. As for the change of laws when it comes to the election of presidents and when we return to that position, and it is amendedly decided to have that draw, I am glad because we have simply come to the situation that is much more important than politics, from the party, from your personal credibility, from the people who are you in the list and that is absolutely one banalization of choice and I am glad that we are running from it. With all these acceptances through one dialogue and another dialogue, and I want to thank the European Parliamentarians, because the EU is our most important foreign political priority, these are our partners. I think through these conversations we've made a good consensus, even some of them disagreed on the so-called. The opposition, but it's just a good consensus when everyone's a little dissatisfied both in power and in opposition, and I want to point out that it's important that we have an election process in which no one will be able to express any doubt and that's one big step ahead. How the elections were held before 2012. I have pointed out very often on this subject an example of elections for national councils in 2010 and I will point that out again. Why? Because apparently individuals until they become power over them no electoral processes are responding. The key difference between the players of a political match is whether you are the government or the opposition. However, in order for you to become a government, you have to work, practice, train and work on your party infrastructure. In 2010, we list of the Bosniak cultural community – Mufti Muamer Zukorlic had no right to hold any member in permanent composition for elections for national councils. It's democracy in a way, I don't know, DS. We won that election. We only had one representative in the extended composition. You might think someone's throwing such an election now. Why am I saying this? Because of a clear comparison, a comparison, just to see how it was a dozen years ago, and who it is now. I absolutely support the dialogue. I also absolutely support the fact that representatives of the extraparliamentary parties have joined the RIK as well. It's important that the citizens know that when the elections pass, the one who won the election has absolutely no doubt about his victory. I am particularly pleased that we will have this one medium level concerning local electoral commissions, because you are in a position to write down certain parties that have only offices in Belgrade and no committee outside of Belgrade and Serbia on dozens of complaints, criminal charges, etc. They never went to Prepolje, nor to Priboj, nor to Sjenica, nor to Novi Pazar, and they reported dozens of criminal charges. They don't even have any boards there. They have no idea what's going on there, and they're expressing doubts about how the election process was conducted or if I don't know the referendum, etc. in a certain municipality. So it's very important because people at the bar know the local specifics best. As far as, just briefly, the Social Entrepreneurship Act, an important law. One of the reasons why we support this Government of the Republic of Serbia is the socially responsible policy, the employment of vulnerable groups. A lot of people today and throughout history have been rich. But what separates people who have entered history and those who have been rich and gone is that feeling for one who is weaker than you. That's why we have something called a vacuum in our culture, in Bosniak culture, and in the Serbian people as a borrowing. These are the people who have left behind lasting goods, which is some socially responsible policy of a particular company or a certain wealthy man and something we should talk more about and somehow return to fashion. In the day to vote, the party's parliamentary club Justice and Reconciliation and the United Peasants' Party will vote in favour of the proposed legal act.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12107	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Selma Kučević. Looks like your unit's not working. Pull out the card and re-apply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12108	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a few points on today's agenda. In my presentation today, I will look back at the electoral laws, but also at the draft law on funding political activities. As representatives of the minority people, or minority nations, we accepted participation in inter-party dialogue with the aim of taking concrete steps towards establishing fair conditions and free democratic elections, the SDA of Sandzak participated in all levels of dialogue with its proposals and demands, from the Faculty of Political Sciences to the last meetings of inter-party dialogue, where we tried to take some step. However, according to what we have here today, these recommendations and conclusions are not respected until the end. Today we're going to talk about electoral conditions, election laws, election calling. We recently had a very worrying situation in Priboj. The situation of increasing threats, the spread of national and religious hatred, impatience, and, in addition, that the state authorities whose task is to ensure both freedom and security, to ensure free and democratic elections, police are giving us genocide threats, encourages new war crimes, and the prosecution by its silence and inaction legalises the crime. We from this booth have warned of these dangerous phenomena several times already. We seek the sanctioning of persons targeted before the elections by genocide threats, we ask that Serbia and its citizens cease to be the hostages of this wartime rhetoric, but in our demands we remain lonely. Now and under such circumstances, elections should be held. The choices that should be free, fair, democratic. Celebrating, enlargement of genocide becomes a dominant topic at the start of the election campaign, imposing such a pre-election atmosphere. When we talk about the proposed electoral laws, taking into account the extent of the amendments proposed, as well as the fact that only a few days left until the election is called, the question of how these proposed changes, what effect they will have and how this volume of changes will be managed to apply. Through participation in inter-party dialogue through European parliamentarians, we have made a series of demands that would preserve the integrity of the electoral processes, and we have provided correct electoral conditions for all participants in this process. One of our demands that we have highlighted was that, in order to submit the electoral list of political entities of minority peoples, the number of signatures is reduced, which is also foreseen by this draft law on the selection of MPs, so instead of the 10,000 signatures so far, this bill provides 5,000 signatures for the election lists of minority nations. We'll try to correct the amendments. Also, another requirement was the reduction of the electoral guarantee for the political entities of minority nations. I do not think that I can enjoy the same treatment of political entities representing minority peoples and acting at regional level compared to those acting on a republican level. This was one of the conclusions of the last meeting of the inter-party dialogue that was not respected and is not in this Bill on the financing of political activities, which we covered by the amendment. The draft law on local elections also stipulates that the electoral list of national minorities in the local elections is seen as only those of national minorities whose members do not make up more than 50% of the population in the local self-government unit. On the contrary, I believe that the status of a national minority cannot be determined at the level of a unit of local self-government, especially if members of a national minority at a state level are recognised as a minority. There is no basis for granting this status selectively, depending on the share of the population in the territory of units of local self-government. Based on this proposal, the political parties of the national minorities lose the status of the national minority list and this will significantly affect the allocation of mandates to local committees. With this proposal, only the political parties of Roma would be at some advantage and some gain, but it makes this norm discriminatory because it introduces double standards towards minorities. That's why I find it necessary to delete this provision. In the proposal for a law on local elections, as well as the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, I believe it is necessary to delete the text, quote – if the report on the work of the electoral committee has not been signed by at least three members of the electoral committee. Therefore, this does not sign the minutes of three members of the electoral committee may have the character of sabotage, the character of abuse, which will certainly contribute to the re-election of elections in these places, as well as possible abuses, which I certainly do not consider an example of good practice and I believe it is necessary to delete this member as well. In the case of the Law on Local Elections, I believe that the definition of the provision is arbitrary, that the holder may, but also does not have to be a candidate for the committee on that list, and that the holder of the list does not have to have a residence on that only local self-government where elections are held. So this can lead to a certain error of the voters, which is why I think it is important that the list holder be a candidate for the committee on the same. If there is a will to put public interest above political or party solutions, the proposed solutions may contribute to building trust in electoral integrity in a short period of time. However, there is not much time left until the election is called and there is justifiable concern about the lack of time for all participants, primarily election authorities to adequately prepare and train, and this time, too, there is a bad practice from 2020 that is contrary to international standards, so changing the rules of election processes before the start of the election campaign. I call on you to adopt the amendments we have proposed, because they are a corrective factor in these laws, and they are also part of the agreements and commitments we have made in the last interparty dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12109	Thank you. The president of the SDPS parliamentary group, MP Branimir Jovanovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12110	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, respected representatives of ministries, colleagues and colleagues, laws relating to the implementation of election processes that we are talking about today, which are the main topic on the agenda, are the result of a multi-month and perhaps multi-annual work when we talk first and foremost about dialogue between parties that form power and parties that are in opposition, both in parliament and outside parliament. The process itself of these conversations was not simple. So I think that we have achieved one success today, today we need to finalise one process of conversation, but of course we don't need to stop at that. When I say we have the result, it is seen that for the upcoming elections announced for April, primarily presidential, parliamentary, but also for local elections, there is no announcement of boycotts like last time, so we have achieved success when we talk about agreement specifically election conditions. I believe that this way we will improve our electoral process, our political system, that it is in the interest of all political parties to bring the electoral conditions into line with modern political flows. For SDPS, the most important thing is to create a stable system, a system that will restore citizens' confidence in the electoral process. A system that will best paint citizens' will and demonstrate the real power of political parties. In this process of conversation that I was just talking about, we entered with concrete proposals, we had our political platform, of course not all the proposals were adopted. So maybe that's another indication that obviously neither side of those negotiations is fully satisfied, but maybe that's an indicator of success, because we can't all be satisfied with what we've been talking about in the past months. In this way, by improving the electoral process, we promote fundamental human rights, civil and political freedoms, and we are really trying to contribute to the creation of an open democratic society where everyone will be able to express their political will, political opinion in a free way. It is therefore important to have a quality discussion in order to find a consensus on the most important issues. When we talk about these solutions concerning the electoral process, I don't think we should put an end here, we should continue to talk and improve on the continuity of our electoral system. It is possible to improve certain parts of the electoral process, the electoral system in a short period of time, and I think we'll see that soon enough, when these laws come into force. Also, the fact is that for three years now, from time to time, we are changing electoral conditions and I will remind you that when the multiparty system returned to Serbia, that the conditions under which the elections were held at the time are indeed not equal, have changed many, and we now have a different system that is in place. Although we are passing laws before the election is called, I must point out that the agreement was to reach an agreement six months before the elections were held. We have fulfilled this agreement and it took time for all these items of the agreement to be translated into one legal framework, into recommendations and procedures, today we speak specifically of the laws, and I think that the ruling coalition has shown good will, that the ruling coalition has kept the word, and this today's agenda is actually a confirmation that in time we adopted everything we agreed at the round table. The law on the election of the President of the Republic in the most part is in line with other laws, and they primarily refer to the selection of MPs, i.e. the laws on local elections. Essential elections for the President of the Republic will be held under the same rules as in previous cycles as in the previous 20 years, by having these changes more effectively election procedures now. In order to resolve any legal procedures related to the first round vote, a different deadline for the second round of voting will be set. Under the current law, the deadline is 15 days from the first day of the vote, and the current bill provides that time begins to be measured from the day when a decision on a repeat vote has been reached. There is also a proposal in connection with the re-vote, which implies that the voting process accurately defines the permanent composition of the electoral committees. I will remind you that it is a political party agreement to temporarily increase the number of members in the permanent composition of the authorities in charge of holding the elections. This is an extortional move, but in any case, this is one good measure, first of all, because we will give all the participants in the election a chance to have their representatives in the relevant bodies dealing with electoral actions. We had to find one such way to meet those parties that did not participate in the elections, those parties that did not cross the census and that are not in parliament today. In this way they will have their representatives in the Republic Election Commission and that is plus for our entire society. No matter what the exception, I think we've made a positive step when we talk about the election process. The new Law on selecting Members of Parliament does not change the essential aspects of the election either. In Serbia, there remains one electoral unit, there remains a proportional system, the censorship remains at 3%, mandates are distributed according to "Dont's pattern", so everything seems to me, as previously prescribed in the form of certain procedures, instructions, where certain shortcomings were to be corrected, we have now translated into legal norm, and in this way we have eliminated many of the misunderstandings that could have occurred in previous cases. Another newspaper envisioned by the new law refers to the formation of election commissions of local self-government units. This is an extremely good proposal, as experience from earlier has shown that there was no such bond between RIK and election committees as bodies dealing with the conduct of the elections. The RIK members had to come to the electoral committees in different ways, so they sent their members or deputies as coordinators to certain districts, and they gave instructions, formed certain working bodies, etc. So there was one serious technical support in conducting certain electoral actions. We have now regulated this issue legally and in addition to making it more effective, I believe that it will make the RIK work much easier in the future. There is also a commendation of the amendment concerning the part concerning the objection, i.e. the publication of the results of the election. Following a new legal solution, the obligation is made to publish all RIK decisions on the official site and the objections begin to count, that is, the day that any decision can be objected to, is when the result is published on the official RIK website. I think it is crucial to perform all necessary actions in the electoral process, which by nature is often short and often urgent. For public insight into the voting process, the paper in the Law is important, in Article 55, where the voter is said to have the right to ask the local electoral commission for information on whether a copy of the voter's list recorded that he voted in the elections. The Republic Election Commission prescribes a way of exercising its right to information on whether a voter has been recorded. In this way, we remove any suspicion of the part concerning voting that someone suspected that someone might have voted in his place, or if he hadn't come out to vote, that his voice had become questionable. I think this is one good mechanism for anyone to check and defend their electoral rights. The paper's got a lot, I'm only trying to isolate what's most important. Facilitating proposals refer to the collection of signatures, and are contained in the law on local elections. The number of signatures is now precise and refers to the number of voters in the territory of a specific city or municipality. I'll try to paint it. For example, in my city, in the King, a full election list of 70 committees was required to collect 2,100 signatures. According to the new legal solution, there are now enough 1,000 signatures. This will, of course, make it easier for many political entities to enter the game when we talk about elections, to measure their strength, and in this way we may get better representativeness, above all in local congregations. When we talk about the Law on the financing of political activities, a very important law, a very sensitive topic ahead of everything citizens, i.e. voters are interested in and it is very important to know that money flows are being monitored and that the public has insight into how the party spends money. It is also very important that all those deadlines relating to the submission of the report be respected. In this regard, it is important to give certain powers, i.e. mechanisms, to the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption. Two years ago, there were amendments to this law, which were followed by amendments to the Anti-Corruption Act, the Anti-Corruption Agency and related to the part that there could be no abuse of public resources during the election campaign. I think we've made one move back then, but in any case, I want to point out that it's all a valuable question, a question of a political culture. The moment we all act together by condemning any use of public resources to achieve some comparative advantage during the election process we will know that we have then succeeded, and of course that involves changing certain values in our society itself. For us from the SDPS of this amendment and the amendments to the law are not only important for the reasons that can be applied in the next elections, so in the spring of 2022, we consider this to be an improvement of the electoral process for the longer term. We will likely have more good proposals in the coming period that will be translated into legal norms in order to make our political system work better. It's important, of course, that all the political sides, we always point out, are represented in the media, that they have equal treatment, first of all I mean public service. It is important to update the regular voter lists. I can commend the Department of State and local self-government to do their part of the job well. We are witnessing, however, that from the renewal of a multi-party system in Serbia, such an atmosphere is being created that always the party that loses in the elections blames someone else. She never finds fault in herself, one side always gets dissatisfied. We want to make such conditions that the elections are free, that the elections are fair, that when political parties, i.e. participants, reach out to each other, congratulate the result and continue to form the executive power. Finally, for us in the SDPS, a very, very important law is the Social Entrepreneurship Act, which is such that we have great expectations of this law, because we are now, for the first time, introducing this category into our economic, or legal system. This law should be a step towards a socially regulated state. In this way we need to achieve, I will only talk about this work, about socially sensitive groups, about such groups being integrated into our society. I'm not just saying that in a cultural or otherwise sense, here I'm specifically thinking about the economic sense, in terms of economic activity. All citizens should have that sense of belonging. They should feel that they are contributing to society, that they are participating in the development of the economy of our country, and on the other hand entrepreneurs must have developed social responsibility, and the state must encourage social entrepreneurship. It is, in any case, an effective tool when we talk about fighting poverty, which is expressed everywhere in the world, when we talk about combating unemployment, especially for such sensitive groups, for sensitive social groups that are either in the social protection system or are more difficult to employ. In this way, with measures like this, we really tend to what the SDPS always talk about, which is to become a society of equal odds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12111	Thank you. The word is made by the president of the parliamentary group of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, Dr Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12112	Dear Vice-President, Mrs Obradovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a set of electoral laws ahead of us. I think that the two most important tasks that this National Assembly meeting has carried out are constitutional review and completion of inter-party dialogue, and the product of completing this inter-party dialogue is a set of electoral laws that we are discussing today and will most likely be adopted in two days. The inter-party dialogue began in the last meeting in 2019, and was continued in this cycle under the leadership of the president of Mr Dacic's National Assembly. The dialogue took place on two tracks. We had one dialogue with representatives of the European Union, more specifically the European Parliament, and the second track was that dialogue without the participation of representatives of the European Parliament. The Vice-President of our parliamentary group and parliament, Elvira Kovac, participated in all these dialogues ahead of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians. We know that this dialogue lasted very long, that the parties participated in this dialogue, both parliamentary and extraparliamentary parties. Today we have on the agenda the final result of this two-and-a-half-year dialogue, in two calls for this parliament. I think it is most important to say, and it is not enough to say just once, but it should be repeated, that the greatest achievement of this dialogue is that all parties in the Republic of Serbia will participate in the April 3rd early parliamentary elections. I don't know any party, no parliamentary, no extraparliamentary party, who announced she would boycott the next parliamentary elections. I think it's very good because the competition will be full and because no one will be able to say that it does not participate in the elections because the election conditions are not good, because the electoral conditions are agreed during the two-and-a-half-year-long dialogue. We can listen to criticism that election laws change at the last minute, at the last minute, that it is not in accordance with some democratic standards, that it does not seem to be in a civilized world, it does not work in such a way, etc. I would like to remind the esteemed MPs, as well as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that what we are doing today is not unprecedented, on the one hand, and on the other hand, it is no accident that it is happening now, because so far they have been in the talks, dialogue with all the parties that wanted to participate, and all the parties wanted to participate. As for some history of passing electoral laws in the Republic of Serbia, I would like to remind you of one fact. I'm sure I'm not the only one in this room who remembers it, under what conditions and when it's passed today by the law on the selection of MPs. Today still valid until Saturday or Monday, depending on when a new law will be passed after the adoption of the National Assembly, the current Law on the selection of MPs was passed on 9 October 2000, four days after the five-octobaric changes, at the last meeting of the National Assembly in that assembly before the disbandment. After that, we had elections for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and, as you know, counterpart Risticevic mentioned it, several months later, more precisely, if I remember correctly, on January 25th 2001, the government of Zoran Djindjic was elected. So, two or three months before the government was established, today's law was passed, and in the meantime parliamentary elections were, of course, held. So much so that the electoral law in civilized countries doesn't change a few months before the election. The law remained in force for almost 22 full years. Another fact is that we remember, I don't know who else remembers it, the legislator of the law, the still valid Law on the selection of MPs, was the Serbian Radical Party, and then the debate was attended by MP Tomislav Nikolic as an authorised representative of the promoter and yet another MP from that called Mr. Dzemail Suljevic from the Party of Democratic Action. And that was the debate. We are discussing proposals for election laws today, we will discuss this on Friday, we will adopt these laws on Friday and on the election of the President of the Republic and on the election of MPs and on local elections and on some other laws that are important for the election campaign and for the implementation of the elections. Then, according to an agreement with the inter-party dialogue, extraordinary parliamentary elections will be called. I said when the law was now passed and the most important elements of that still in force in the last 22 years have not been changed. A proportional electoral system, Serbia as one electoral unit. On several occasions, we had some small adjustments or relatively small corrections to the electoral law. I'd mention some of them. In 2004, a so-called system was introduced. a natural threshold that allows the lists, i.e. the parties of national minorities, to enter parliament and if they do not reach the censorship of 5%, today of 3%, which is absolutely in line with the constitutional principle that members of national minorities should be represented in representative bodies, including the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We had an amendment to the election law when quotas were introduced, first 30%, well, then 40% for the less represented sex. In 2010, the Constitutional Court of Serbia made one decision which, on the one hand, relativised the Institute of Blanco's resignations, and on the other hand concluded the electoral lists, because until then, the MP could also become a candidate from the twenty-seventh place, which a particular party won, say, 13 or 15 mandates, and more, is all that has changed over the past 20 years, until 2020, when the censorship was reduced from 5% to 3% and when, within that package, that the parties of national minorities would not be damaged, an increase of 35% in the case of parties, or a list of national minorities. Comparations, today 34 countries in Europe belong to a wider family of proportional electoral systems, and of nine European countries with closed blocked lists, i.e. that citizens of voters cannot influence who will become an MP from the electoral list, so there are only two countries in which the entire state is one electoral unit, one state is called Montenegro, and another state is called Serbia. In all other countries of Europe with a proportional electoral system, there are several electoral units. I'm only saying this to point out that even these current changes are not of some fundamental, epochal importance in order to fully introduce a new electoral system, a few days before the early parliamentary elections are called. This draft law on the selection of MPs in a comprehensive way provides legal certainty, equality of all participants in the election game and establishes a satisfactory framework for fair elections. As regards the position of the parties of national minorities, this law also takes into account the specificity of the existence of the parties of national minorities, and we welcome the solution to retain the system of the natural threshold. It cannot be abolished because of the level of human and minority rights achieved. The same applies to the solution that the number of parties of national minorities is increasing by 35%, with the fact that it is now more precise and clearly seen from the text of the Bill's proposal to apply, and we have been imagining it from the very beginning, when the party of the national minority does not reach the censorship, and that censorship is at the state level 3%, which is maintained and at the local level the same. What is very important and what is the other side of the medal is that the bill, which defines the position and concept of the party of the national minority and establishes concrete mechanisms to protect against the abuse of the status of the party of the national minority. I would like to present some information, to make it clear why it is important for us as foreigners of the national minority, the Hungarian national minority, to prevent abuse. The 14th of January 2022, out of 114 active political parties in the Republic of Serbia, means from 114, 69 are registered and registered as national minority parties. In 2016, a total of 29 submitted electoral lists at the republical level in the 16 parliamentary elections required national minority status. I would not like to make an ad to anyone we know from previous calls to the National Assembly, specifically by name and last name, who were those MPs, who abused this status without having to deal with any national minority or ever, anything or at least raised their voice in the interest of some national minority, and enjoyed these benefits and it was a classic abuse of rights. The Republic Election Commission, i.e. the local electoral commission, will determine whether the electoral list is submitted with the basic objective of representing and representing the interest of the national minority, and the National Councils of Minorities will have specific competences in the process, but the last word will not be theirs, because certain parties of national minorities are likely, because they put themselves in that position and start from how they would behave if they had a majority in the National Minority Council, they feared that the National Council could deny that status to another party of the same national minority. So the National Council will have no choice but to give an opinion. With already existing affirmative measures, two more are important in the case of national minority parties, the number of necessary signatures is reduced from 10 to 5,000, and local elections will require a double number of signatures, if this was not introduced in 71 local self-government units, there would be more support, more signatures of support, than it should have been in 2020 in the last local elections. It makes me sad that as far as our national community, the Hungarian national community, looks like the SVM will be the only party, who will have the courage to stand on its own in the elections, some other minority Hungarian parties will pounce on some opposition, even today with opposition, and also in the next round, opposition lists, and I am sure of that, regardless of the censorship. It makes me sad and I'm surprised that it's not enough to cut to 5,000, and then they can't go to the polls on their own, but it's their decision and they're probably aware of their "power" in the Hungarian electoral body. I hope that in other minority communities competition will be stronger, e.g. within the Bosniak national community, Albanian etc. What I still want to say is that certain amendments are submitted, these amendments are the same product and the consequence of the inter-party dialogue, and it is fully in favour of the arguments of the opposition parties, so that I am sure that these amendments will be adopted and that in the presidential elections there will remain a lot, as a way of determining the place on the ballot, despite the fact that the bill does not stand, but I am sure that in the passed law, it will be and remains a lot. What makes us happy, which is the same one to submit the amendment, and that one voter will be able to support only one electoral list with his signature in the process of running for the election list, and that no solution will be adopted in the bill that one voter will be able to support more election lists. We find it quite logical that one voter can only support one list. The key change is the introduction of a function, i.e. the introduction of a medium-level operation of the electoral administration, we will see how this will take place on the ground, in practice, but this is the assumption that opposition parties both out-of-parliamentary and parliamentary within the framework of local electoral committees, and also in the Republic Election Commission, have very many representatives, which will surely lead to the fact that they will not be able to raise doubts about the regularity of the next elections. To conclude, the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians supports what this assembly of parliament has brought to the end by this process of inter-party dialogue, which we have these draft laws on the agenda, and we will support all the proposed solutions in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12113	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the Single Serbia Group, Life Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12114	The President-in-Office, Mrs Jevdzic, respected Minister Mrs Obradovic, respected fellow MPs, today we are discussing a set of laws that belong, i.e. belong to the so-called ". electoral legislation. Here I think of the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the Law on the Selection of Presidents of the Republic and the Law on Local Elections, as well as the Law on the Financing of Political Activities. Of course, today we will talk about other laws such as the Law on Social Entrepreneurship and the Law on the Salaries of Civil Servants. I will focus first and foremost on these electoral laws, and counterpart Jevdic and Aleksic will talk a little more about other bill proposals. In fact, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Unique Serbia has never had a problem with electoral legislation, because we simply know that the electoral will of citizens does not depend on electoral legislation but depends solely on the political programme, how much and to what extent you are carrying out a political problem, or what political actions you are doing, and whether you hold the word given to the people. Unique Serbia also has a clear policy and a recognizable policy, Unique Serbia has works, Unique Serbia keeps its word and therefore we do not worry about the electoral will of Serbian citizens. With electoral legislation, there is a problem with those who have no policy at all for Serbian citizens of important political issues. With electoral legislation, it is the problem for those who, while ruling and ruling, had disastrous deeds, or catastrophic results, both per citizen of Serbia and per state of Serbia. Therefore, the Single Serbia believes that this process of amending electoral legislation is actually part of a democratic process that is developing and flowing with the Republic of Serbia. The democratic process, part of the democratic process, is also this amendment to the electoral legislation, and that is why we will support all these electoral laws in the voting day. We're passing these electoral laws here today, but it wouldn't be too bad to say how these electoral laws came about. In fact, the whole process that led to these laws began in 2019, when it was certain that the elections would be called in 2020, when part of the opposition scene raised a large media halabuka about the fact that the election process was allegedly not fair, that the election process was certainly not democratic and that it was not transparent enough. I say a big media hall, that someone doesn't think that part of the opposition that raised that halabuk has some big support in the people and you dear colleagues, and I know that they don't have that support in the people, but they have a big media influence. We can freely say that when that part of the opposition is about the attitude of support in the people and the relationship of their media influence is in reverse, because that part of the opposition is led by a large media tycoon, the man who was in power was a media monopoliest, so that part of the opposition led by Dragan Gilasom is the one who created that media hall. To make the whole thing more interesting in 2019, they rebelled against electoral laws, as Mr Balint Pastor said a little while, which were made in their time, after October 5th, after the five-eyed revolution, and they somehow fought against their own law in 2019, i.e. against their own creation. Of course, due to all this, parties in power and part of an NGO in the NGO sector have started an inter-party dialogue with the opposition at the Faculty of Political Sciences. Of course, we from Unity Serbia participated in this dialogue. Somehow, from the very beginning, it was clear that that part of the opposition would not be what they wanted, not what they wanted. Simply, for them dialogue was not important, but the whole media halabuka was preparing an alibi for not going to the elections in order to hide the shame of the desperately small support that part of the opposition had and that it has today in the people. This form of dialogue at the Faculty of Political Sciences suddenly began to fail them, suddenly they found a new excuse not to participate in these talks, so they said – we do not trust the parties in power. We don't trust anyone. We want Europarliamentaries. Then the discussion with the Faculty of Political Sciences was moved to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Personally, I also consider the Unique Serbia to be the right place where such talks should be held, but have insisted on the intervention of European parliamentarians and then on those talks in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia were also invited by European mediators, Tanja Fajon, Vladimir Bilchik, Kurt Flakenstein, Eduard Kukan and others. However, both at that time and during these talks in the assembly and with the intermediation of the Europarliamentaries they called for and whose presence and mediation they insisted on, they eventually left those talks, they eventually decided on what they knew from the very beginning they would do, which is to boycott those elections in 2020. But those conversations didn't run out of results at the time. Namely, then, the electoral threshold or the so-called censorship from 5% is down to 3%, just as the most direct support to the opposition at the time, the current opposition that had so little foothold and support for the citizens of Serbia. Of course, their boycott failed, of course, that they had a political fiasco in those elections, and immediately after the election, they were reunited. Be careful, right after the election is said – there will be new parliamentary elections in the next year and a few days. And they've been given a deadline, here, you've got a year and more days, you've been consolidated, you've got to get ready and we're going for a new election. I say this because citizens should know that these upcoming parliamentary elections on April 3rd are not something that is a legal obligation, is not something that is a regular procedure, the April 3rd parliamentary elections are a reflection of the political will to introduce as many political actors as possible into political life and nothing more. No one had to, no one forced us. Of course, since it was clear to them that elections would be called this year in 2022, as the time began to run immediately, the same in the opposition restarted that media halabuka and moaning over the electoral conditions. They were offered talks at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Part of the opposition accepted those talks, because, once again, it is a place where such talks should only be held, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Part of the opposition, which I was just talking about, led by Dragan Gilas, refused. They have again insisted on the intervention of European parliamentarians and we have again accepted this condition and we have said – okay. The doshi are Tanja Fajon and Eduard Kukan and Vladimir Bilchik and Kurt Flakenstein again, and it's on again. The first talks were online conversations in this National Assembly. I remember during those online talks, Dragan Markovic Palm told those European parliamentarians what kind of people it was. He told parliamentarians that this part of the opposition that they started to mediate in those talks did not keep their word, that they were frauds, that they liked to lie, that their word meant nothing to them and then, I must admit, those Euro MPs were looking a little strange at Palm when he told them. But what happened? We had two more sessions later and after the second session, when it was due to come to an agreement, these full ones, until then, were greatly offended by the very Europarliamentaries they called for to intercede. They were accused by them and their media that they had made an agreement with Vucic, not with the opposition, that they had made an agreement with the authorities, without respecting the opposition and in various other ways insulted them, and that certain MEPs had left the meeting and then it was clear to those MEPs what kind of people they were talking about and what people were talking about at the first meeting of Dragan Markovic Palm. Of course, there were also the results of these negotiations. There were results of negotiations that were parallelly conducted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and led by the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dacic, and some 16 requests were made by the opposition, which were accepted, and these laws that we are talking about today have been implemented and the points in these agreements. That we had implemented everything we had agreed and that we had respected everything we had agreed, they confirmed the other day when these Europarliamentarians, or Euro-mediators, were coming. Despite these electoral conditions, however, and despite the fact that we have done everything, seeing that they no longer have the excuse for electoral conditions, part of the opposition instead of focusing on presenting its political programme to the citizens of Serbia, aware and now the little support they have in the people, resorting to now different scenarios -- causing dissatisfaction in the people, inventing problems from environmentalism, and we will again come to this election process and thus, under the battle for a healthier environment, organise protests, block highways and roads, seeking to foster conflicts and dissatisfaction. When the Serbian government met them and those conditions with these protests, they continued to protest, and this is the clearest signal that these protests were not environmental, but were primarily political protests. It is clear that at the time, environmentalism was only a cover for these political protests, and the leaders of opposition parties were hiding behind these ecological, allegedly, protests, but hiding behind everything else. In fact, both Gilas and Jeremic don't go to the election game. They sit in the stands of VIPs, and they pour out all kinds of Ponoš, Marinika, Jankovica like some theater dolls, you know those dolls behind those ropes, where they move them and pull their moves, moves like they want them to. They've made, of course, a devious plan for the next election. Realising that they will lose, they have made a scenario that immediately, after the polling stations are closed, they accuse the authorities of stealing elections of causing riots. You were all there, and you could see about ten days ago, a week or ten days ago, a video of one opposition leader, or leader of the opposition party in Jagodina, giving it to other colleagues, representatives of other opposition parties their plan that, on the day of the referendum, the meeting was, in the evening, coming up with their referendum results, which have been invented, which are false, as he says, that we spin those results and accuse the authorities of stealing the election. It was nothing more than a demonstration exercise, training for what they planned to do in the April 3rd election. Of course it won't work. Of course it just shows who they are. They have no policy of any importance to Serbian citizens. Their actions from the time when people were in power well remembered, the sale of everything valuable in Serbia, the dismissal of workers, overindebtedness. The only thing that they did when they were in power was fill their own pockets. Realising that they cannot compete in the works created as a result of their policy, reach for lies, false affairs for dehumanisation and criminalisation of political opponents and do not choose the means and predominate from nothing and there is no single red line for them. Simply, the goal justifies the means. It's their policy. It is the plan presented by that one of their representatives that speaks of their impotence, aware of their incompetence, inability even to cover all the polling stations, let alone run the city or the state. They try to show their weakness as an argument that the government is bad, but behind this government are works and all their barren attempts fall into the water before our actions. There are highways, railways, clinical centres, hospitals, schools. You gentlemen provide free transport in Jagodina, you who planned to come out with these false results in Jagodina, as provided by Dragan Markovic Palma. Bring at least one investor, pave the way for at least one street and at least hire yourself, unlike the Unique Serbia that created the conditions to employ thousands and thousands of people. But they're just not interested in citizens. They see power not as the possibility of working on the development of the city, the state, its citizens, but only see power as an opportunity to reach a position and privilege. When they accuse the authorities of the worst possible affairs and lies, they actually design themselves so that they or how they would if or when they were in power, because the beginning and end of their policy is not a people, the beginning and end of their policy are only personal interests. Let me get this straight. On April 3rd, the people will vote in favour of actions, not lies on social networks. Therefore, the April 3rd elections for Unique Serbia will be a confirmation of the people's will, not the result of any electoral conditions of electoral legislation or other things, because these are only instruments, and I repeat, the electoral will of the people depends again on your political programme, on what political actions you have and how much you hold the word given to the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12115	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. We'll be back in 15 hours and five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12116	Dear People's MPs, we continue to work, with authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word has the mandated representative of the PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P", a national MP, or President Hadzhi Milorad Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12117	Thank you. The President-in-Office, distinguished minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, on the agenda of today's session as part of a joint debate, is a discussion of several laws dedicated to the electoral process and election procedures. At the very beginning, I would point out that the PUPS parliamentary group – "Three P" in the voting day will support these proposals and vote in favour. Today’s session is probably the last plenary session in this assembly of the National Assembly to discuss legal and other proposals on the agenda. The laws proposed and in today's debate are certainly very important laws. In each regulated society, laws relating to the choice of authorities, members of parliament and heads of state represent legal matter of first-class importance, which effectively complements the general constitutional provisions. The brand new legal texts that are proposed are the fruit of years of discussions in inter-party dialogue, with and without foreign intermediaries, as well as consultation with representatives of civil society, sectors and scientific institutions. As a party representative who makes up part of the ruling majority, I can say that we in PUPS have considered these issues, although we have had some suggestions to improve certain segments of the electoral process, we did not want to insist on them at all costs, aware of the need to reach a compromise as soon as possible and adopt valid solutions that would satisfy as many political entities in the country as possible. At the same time, I would like to say that one who has not willingly and consciously participated in the dialogue, or who has not made absolutely any constructive proposals, cannot now be any moral right to object to the adoption of the proposed changes in the electoral legislation. As far as the roof law on selecting Members of the People is concerned, there are mostly long-term basic principles. MPs will continue to be elected on the basis of the electoral lists using the highest factor method, with a 3% censorship, while special rules and benefits will remain for national minorities' lists. And the news is that instead of the usual 10,000 certified voters' signatures, these parties will be able to submit a list of 5,000 certified voters' signatures. However, more important changes concern some technical issues in the process of organising the vote itself. When the new law is passed, the whole process will play a significant role in taking over local electoral commissions at the level of cities and municipalities, which, according to now, there are no solutions to the republican elections process. They will be competent to set up polling stations with their solutions and, more importantly, to carry out operations on the formation of voting committees in the permanent and expanded composition of these polling stations on their territory, as all of this has been done in or through the RIK so far, which essentially wasted considerable time in communication between people from locals and members of the RIK and employees in professional services. These changes would move a significant part of these jobs from RIK to a local place, which should make them more efficient and more efficient, given that people in many municipalities know each other in a large number of cases and know each other personally. RIK would retain control and a directing role for these affairs. It would be an instance of complaints about decisions made by local electoral committees in these cases, and it would keep these jobs only for polling stations located abroad or in prisons. The deadline for handing over the list has been moved from the current 15 to 20 days before the vote was held, which is justified by the need to leave time for possible court disputes, so that after the announcement of the election list, there would no longer be legal opportunity to bring it down. A special member of the law has created a legal possibility that in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, we can give up these rules for the safety of the vote, and we will all have to prepare well for the upcoming elections, so that we do not have to repeat the case from the referendum, that part of our population is severely banned by the self-prohibited Pristina authorities, or almost impossible. The transitional provisions provide that the upcoming RIK elections will be further extended with six members and deputies on a proposal for a parliamentary opposition that participated in an inter-party dialogue and local election committees on a permanent basis with one member and one deputy, also on a proposal by the opposition. Important changes have also been made in the process of determining election results. The solutions so far have not been able to repeat the vote at some polling post if no one has objected to the minutes, and subsequent controls determine the illogicalities and errors in the minutes or the discrepancies of the minutes with the fact that the ballots are packed in certain envelopes and bags. I'll remind you that in several past election cycles, we've had such cases where RIK had to work so-called. Advocacy of results from polling stations, which were up to 15 cases in 2016, all of which raised doubts about the work of electoral authorities, the results themselves and contributed to the rise of political tensions at the most sensitive moments. After adopting new solutions, that will no longer be the case. Now the local commissions and RIK will be able to, under official duty, even if there is no formal objection in such situations, decide whether it is possible to establish a real, accurate result, so they will do, if possible, if not, then there will be a legal basis for the vote to repeat itself. The paper also presents the possibility of controlling the sample of the election material at the request of the party, which won more than 2% and less than three votes in the elections where they will re-count at work or in individual situations in certain cases, even at all polling stations in each municipality. The third group of important changes concerns increasing the possibility of possible complaints in the process. Since local election commissions have been introduced, the complainants will now be able to address them first, so that after their decision, they complain to the RIK, eventually complaining to the Administrative Court at the decision of the RIK. All deadlines for appeals have been extended from 24 to 72 hours since the observed irregularities, i.e. the closure of the polling post, and all decisions on these procedures will necessarily be uploaded to local election commissions and the RIK site. I don't think there's anything to object to these new solutions to the protection and control of electoral rights. Moreover, we will most likely have one slowdown in the statement of official final election results by the electoral commissions, but when they are finally established no one will be able to question their legality and legitimacy. The new Law on Local Elections is a major follow-up to new solutions already proposed by the Law on the Selection of People's MPs. The election list's proposal leaves a 30-signed decision per candidate for over 20,000 voters' council, and a total of 200 signatures for municipalities that have fewer than that number. The minimum number of signatures has been proposed to be determined through a scale of 200 voters' signatures in municipalities up to 20,000 voters, so 300 signatures in municipalities up to 30,000 voters, 500 signatures for municipalities up to 50,000 voters, 600 signatures for municipalities up to 70, 800 signatures for municipalities up to 100,000 and thousands of voters for municipalities up to 500 thousand voters, and at least three thousand for city elections in Belgrade will be required for the list. These solutions aim to allow a bigger political offer, especially in smaller municipalities where we have a case that there are many voters legally required to be held in the polling list towards the place of residence, but rarely in those places have long lived, so the application procedure in practice has been significantly more difficult. In the proceedings of objections and complaints, the local electoral commission will decide in the election procedure, in the second instance, the Supreme Court of the municipality. In the Law on the financing of political activities, the most important changes are to limit the maximum level of party membership of natural persons to 3,000 dinars on an annual basis and the different public relations given for the election campaign, as the part that is divided before the election by all submitted lists will now increase from the existing 20% to 30% of the total amount to 65%. If a second round of presidential elections is held, these 65% will be divided in proportion to the number of votes won by the two candidates in the second round, and this is a far more attractive solution, because so far the current legal provisions of all 80% of the funds intended for the second round were won by the final winner. Proposing the President-elect. In addition to this election-related package at today's session, there is a very important proposal for a law on social entrepreneurship. This law has long been announced, even in some previous assembly council meetings concrete proposals have been sent to parliament, but no further progress has been made. This time, it is good to create the possibility that this area of entrepreneurship is finally recognised in positive regulations and something concrete is done to help more employable categories of the population, as well as those in the rural and border regions of our country. Otherwise, the PUPS, as a social justice party, insisted in the previous period on the adoption of this law, despite the public sector and the private sector, we have a kind of employment, and this will now enable this Social Entrepreneurship Act. The bill stipulates that certain reliefs of all kinds will be made possible for those entrepreneurs, businesses and associations of citizens who opt to operate under the social entrepreneurship system – direct aid through grants, tax reliefs, giving space for work under favourable conditions and other facilities, but will also have to meet certain requirements, including the most important that at least 50% of those achieved will have to be reinvested in such support programmes for socially sensitive groups, or that they will be donated to dedicated donations for these purposes. Also, entities entering this system will have to provide and participate in the decision-making of employees, as well as to submit regular reports on their business. Our government will be scheduled to do so at the end of this year, when the law is to start applying, forming and adopting a programme for the development of social entrepreneurship, so that it should be hoped that early next 2023 everything will be ready for the law to be concreteised in practice and that the first expected positive effects. Dear People's MPs, by adopting a package of proposed electoral laws, we will create a solid basis for implementing all the upcoming elections, but at the end of today's debate, I think it would be good to propose that in the new assembly of parliament some other topics related to the electoral system that have not been touched so far, and this is the very system and way of allocating parliamentary, parliamentary mandates in a narrow sense. The parties participating in the dialogue expressed different views on these issues, but I think that most representatives expressed a principled view that the existing solutions from a decade ago have long been mature for serious impact analysis in practice and potential reform, while achieving as broad a consensus as possible. I believe that in these inter-party negotiations we have reached some level of consent and that these laws are going in that direction. We believe that, after the election, the new assembly assembly should open a wide public debate on this issue in the way we had about the constitutional amendments adopted last year. From that, everyone in the parties, but even the whole society, could be of great benefit to me. In any case, our PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P" will give its support in the day of voting for the adoption of all legislative proposals on the agenda of today's debate. Also, the PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P" will support other proposals and legal solutions discussed at this session in the voting day and vote in favour. Dear friends, distinguished citizens of Serbia, respected minister with associates, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12118	I would like to thank the President of the PUPS Group – ‘Three P’. The word has been issued by the SPS parliamentary group president, MP Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12119	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Kovac, respected Minister Obradovic, respected ministry representatives, not wanting to reduce and minimise the importance of all and individually any legislative proposal, I will as head of the parliamentary group, because we think it is very important that the citizens of Serbia know what happened during the inter-party dialogue, speak first of all about the set of electoral laws, and in the follow-up of today's debate, my distinguished colleague will talk about the remaining legislative proposals. So let's be completely open to the citizens of Serbia and remember some of the facts ourselves. Did there also occur when the words "election conditions" were mentioned by any political party in parliament from 2008 to 2019? I will remind you that when it comes to electoral legislation, only one item has been changed regarding the financing of political parties, because it was a priority of savings. It was saved where there is, it can't be saved where there's no money, so it saves funds that have been channeled towards financing political parties. The amount of funds has been reduced. So, from 2008 to 2019, we have no change when it comes to election conditions. That's when it's all right. Is that right? That's when we all participate in the election. No parliamentary party until 2019, and there were those from the opposition's ranks here in the parliamentary benches, did not mention election conditions. Today we're talking about how solid something is, how good something is. Let's be completely honest and completely open. Today we are talking about the concessions the ruling coalition has made towards the extraparliamentary opposition. On the other hand, if the non-parliamentary opposition had the responsibility of our ruling coalition at this time in Serbia, I am sure it would not make such concessions and would not accept such proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2019, we come to the story of electoral conditions. If you remember, then one part of the opposition leaves parliament to demand an early parliamentary election. When they realize that the early parliamentary elections would lead to their political end and political collapse, they must somehow search and recall election conditions, but for God's sake, they will not discuss this with us here in March 2019 and with the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Maja Gojkovic, who scheduled a meeting to discuss how to improve parliamentary dialogue, parliamentary practice, how to implement everything contained in the European Commission report, and in particular the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. No, they don't want to talk to us, but they just happen to want to talk to European parliamentarians. We've accepted that, too. A lot of people ask us -- why did you accept that? We have nothing to hide. If we had rejected European parliamentarians at this point, it would be that we do not want fair and democratic elections and it would be that we want to hide something and that something in the electoral conditions when it comes to Serbia is not okay. (Vladimir Djukanovic: Gjorge, only the truth. As always, Mr. Djukanovic, only the truth. And you follow and let me know if it's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12120	Please, no throwing, and if we could just keep it down a notch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12121	So, as far as the out-of-parliamental opposition was concerned, then she remembered election conditions. He needed a reason to make the election go away. They call on European parliamentarians, not because they believe that European parliamentarians will bring about the highest quality of the modality when we talk about electoral conditions, but to try to put pressure on the ruling coalition through European parliamentarians and to come to power without choice and privilege. That's just the truth. That's true. Today when someone says, I hear from this part of the opposition, the boycott is the reason why the second phase of interparty dialogue was continued. That's not true. Boycott's gone. The scenario that was planned after the boycott failed, six months after the boycott, which is to destabilise Serbia, challenge protests, challenge unrest and thus try to take over power. It's gone. And that was no reason. The reason is that after the first phase of the inter-party dialogue, we agreed to continue with the second phase of inter-party dialogue after the elections and to open other topics, because we as the ruling coalition have said many times, Serbia is a democratic and free state and of course we express our willingness to always talk about electoral conditions and of course we express our willingness to look at any suggestion and proposal that can improve election conditions. On the other hand, you have a farce and a distraction of the public and an attempt to make the whole process a sacrifice to be recognized by someone in Serbia as a victim and perhaps attract his attention or get their support. They didn't make it either. It was a very important initiative by the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in agreement with the President of the Republic, that this dialogue be conducted on two lines, to continue inter-party dialogue, but also to talk to political parties that do not want to talk to European parliamentarians. If we talk about election conditions, you can't rule out any political parties, you can't degrade them -- you want to talk to this parliamentary party, and you won't talk to this extraparliamentary party. So we think it was a very good initiative and when we last met with representatives of the European Parliament a few days ago, one of the issues of the representatives of the European Parliament was – will we be able to implement all this? I think they missed both the subject and the address. First, they should not address us, the ruling coalition, to ask the question to us. Why? Because in March, they were still invited by the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to begin with the second phase of inter-party dialogue. They didn't travel, the pandemic was a problem. We could've been on-line. So many meetings took place, important meetings held on-line, and we could also hold cross-border dialogues. Today they say – you adopt the laws in the year right before the elections. When do we adopt them? The date and term of the continuation of the inter-party dialogue was defined by the MEPs, not the ruling coalition. The ruling coalition, in agreement with other non-parliamentary parties, had continuity in the talks, I think of extraparliamentary parties that did not want talks with European parliamentarians, had continuity in the talks, and there was a high degree of political tolerance and political culture. What is very important is a high degree of political responsibility. In what way? It's not just an election story. There was also talk of national and state interests. I will remind you, the president of the state, before he came before the MPs, met with the extra-parliamentary opposition and presented a report on the current most important national and state issue, the Kosovo and Metohija issue. So, in order to end, to bring us those who have invited European parliamentarians into a paradoxical situation, so they are bringing European parliamentarians, they are always insisting on talks with Europarliamentarians, we are coming up with a final document that we need to adopt, and they suddenly do not accept this document, they do not accept the draft document drawn up by European parliamentarians. I heard here today that there were some suggestions in that draft when it came to minorities. I don't remember there was that proposal, I don't remember there being a proposal for minorities. I don't remember there being a guarantee proposal, and I don't know what was mentioned. That was neither discussed nor proposed by the European parliamentarians. All that was the proposal of the European parliamentarians, we accepted. All that's agreed in phase two, on track two, is accepted. I don't know what else? Is that 20 percent advantage still necessary, so we can start the election race? Would they then be even? You're right, mate, it'd be a little 20%. The first question was, will you be able to implement it? We have said that, as always, we will have a serious, responsible and dedicated relationship, as we did during the first phase of the inter-party dialogue and everything that has been agreed on, we will implement at the next session of the Assembly, respecting the procedure that has just been defined by the European Commission's report, which is - there are no acts of urgency, but everything is going according to the regular procedure. So, the legal proposal comes to parliament, it's two weeks and then it's on the agenda. And this assembly has been in recent years, I do not know how many years one of the few convocations that had the smallest number of acts adopted under the emergency procedure and which managed to implement everything contained in the European Commission's report, as regards the concrete work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'll look back on a few more things. If we are talking about the fundamental reform of electoral legislation, let's be completely open here, because I saw that one part of the opposition doesn't know what it says when it talks about the fundamental reform of electoral legislation. We were all in a meeting together, and it's tragic when those who fight for 3% say -- it would be good for Serbia to have a majority electoral system. Do they even know what the majority electoral system means? They say you have a one-party assembly today. No, we have a Parliament that is the voice of the people. Well, what would that congregation look like if it were a majority electoral system, did they even wonder? On the other hand, the SPS believes that the proportional electoral system at the moment is a political reality in Serbia. We can discuss a combined or mixed electoral system, in the context of a proportionately personalised electoral system, but it requires a public debate, one broad consensus of all relevant political factors. We're always ready for that. But to tell us -- we're comfortable with the majority system, it does seem tragic. I think that as part of the ruling coalition that participated in the talks, we were able to realise that key goal, and our goal was to come to a compromise, respecting diversity. And I think we did it on this second track. As for the first round, let the answers give those who called on the MEPs. I asked only one question to the MEPs, since we all had 45 minutes to talk together, and we represent the citizens of Serbia, and how many millions of Serbian citizens, and the extra-parliamentaries had three hours to talk the next day, and in the seat of the European Union, I asked representatives of the European Parliament just to ask here, call the pro-European opposition, since the referendum was just finished, whether they really advocated Serbia's European integration or not? Why are they called pro-European? How can they be pro-European and vote against and run a campaign against a referendum issue that should speed up the process of European integration in Serbia regarding the concrete rule of law? I think that we have reached a compromise and that this is very good, that the solutions contained in these legal proposals will only be taxed over several solutions that I consider important, so a media monitoring body will be formed in relation to six REM members plus six non-parliamentary opposition members, so there are no representatives of the ruling coalition because they want equal representation in the media and they definitely do not understand what equal representation means in the media. When we say equal representation in the media, we mean thematic debates at the public service, where you show the program, people who are guaranteed to realize this program, cross the spear, and let the citizens in the elections decide who they will trust. No, when you say "equal representation" in the media, they think they should deal with editorial media policy. The media must remain autonomous and free. And in 2000, someone created a strategy on media privatisation, to remind you, when most of the media was privatized. You wanted capitalism - you got it. Where do you need to deal with the editorial policy of the private media today? And how can we define that to private media? We can define the regulation to the Public Service and they will comply with that rule. But you know what he says, say, the public service of the Duke? We received information, as the President of the Assembly sent a letter to all televisions with a national frequency, Vojvodina Public Service says it has three or four shows of political character and that in those three or four shows of political character there were more opposition political parties and extraparliamentary opposition political parties than the ruling coalition parties. It's an official document that we got from Vojvodina's Radio-Television. Second, don't just cross the RIK. It's something they certainly wouldn't do to us. For the first time, non-parliamentary parties have six representatives in the RIK and have one member and one deputy in the permanent election committee. So, extraparliamentary parties. You know that the law has clearly defined how RIK is formed, based on the number of MPs who win a certain electoral list, and thus also gets the number of RIK members and RIK deputies. For the first time it's given to someone as a tray -- here you go, you get six, and you figure out which six it's going to be. They don't even know who they're going to propose to. They didn't fill all the places for a referendum. They give public competitions to get to people who will guard the polling stations and who will guard the ballot boxes and represent themselves as an alternative. What alternative is that in Serbia? To go back to election laws. So, as far as voting outside of the polling post that we have been very often honored here, it's very clear -- three people are going to the polls, where one must be from the opposition's ranks. Well, we've solved that question. As someone said earlier, RIK has an obligation to hang every record from every polling post on the website and that question is defined. As far as national minorities are concerned, I know we've talked about one topic, which is to lower the number of signatures needed for national minorities from 10,000 to 5,000, and that's where they came out. As for a functioning campaign that is very often a thorn in their eye, you know the SPS thinks and we defined it in a platform that we handed over to the National Assembly President and the European Parliamentarians that although the elections are not to stop, the public function holders have to do their job and while the campaign is also after the campaign, but that we are in favour of finding a certain moderation that will satisfy the opposition not to be a functioning campaign and I think a measure has been found for which it has been defined through legislative proposals. As for funding political activities, there we went and more to meet than what the opposition asked for. They asked us to redistribute the funds 30 to 70, we made a proposal 35 to 65. So they came out to meet more than they expected. The appeal period was extended, from 48 to 72 hours. In the electoral administration, therefore, that middle level is defined. Next to RIK, we will now have local electoral commissions. It was neither the ruling coalition nor the opposition political parties, it seems to me, was the OSCE's and ODIR's stance. I think it's something we've accepted, primarily as a protection and control mechanism. Any opposition list that achieves a score of over 2% can carry out a test of material on a 5% sample. So, very clearly defined, at any moment you can check the voter list that has been updated. So, did someone vote for you or didn't vote for you, to remove that name already? If there are certain disagreements between the election material and what RIK has over the views held by RIK, criminal charges may be filed.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12122	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12123	I'm done. I can see they cared very much about that draw. So we have a lot when it comes to presidential candidates. It's clear why they wanted it, but it's underestimating Serbia's citizens. Do they think that Serbian citizens are illiterate so that they will not read by name and last name who is the candidate for president but will look at it by number? Do not underestimate the citizens of Serbia so much. But here, we went out to meet when it came to drawing. Here, we're going to meet today, and when it comes to amendments, since there was an additional proposal. It's coming out again and all the amendments submitted by an opposition colleague will be accepted, and I believe they will be accepted. So I don't know what else the ruling coalition can do at this point except, and I end up, so when we talk about control mechanisms, I think that's what counterpart Marijan Risticevic was talking about, you have eight and a half thousand polling stations. At eight and a half thousand polling stations, the opposition will have at least 10 to 20 people. That's 85,000 bystanders. If they're not capable of those 85,000 watchers times two, to follow the election, then I really don't know what more I can say. So it's impossible at this point and based on all this we've done to anyone to question the legitimacy of the election. Once again, I think it is very important that we have held talks on two tracks and that on this second track we have had one continuity in the talks on the initiative of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12124	I thank the president of the SPS parliamentary group. For our children, the MP Marijan Rističević has the power of the parliamentary group, Aleksandar Vukic – for our children. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12125	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Milicevic missed one thing to say because according to the Law on the election of MPs, one voter can sign more bids. Be assured that the opposition with barely 10,000 votes is likely to multiply both the number of lists and that what we expect to be up to twenty electoral lists can be exceeded. So, in this situation, nearly 10% of the electoral body will be members of the electoral committees on the side of opposition parties who propose the lists. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you certainly know that we have opened two museums – the Museum of Contemporary Art and the National Museum. They were closed, but at a time when they ruled they opened one of the largest museums in the world -- the whole of Serbia was a museum exhibit. Serbia, which has not progressed, but has gone backwards, Serbia with old, bad roads, Serbia without highways, and what has been quite bad, Serbia without hospitals, Serbia without clinical centres, Serbia without schools, Serbia with a disarmed army, Serbia without trained personnel, Serbia completely outdated, which went back towards cave Serbia or Serbia, later Serbia, the founder of Serbia, Stefan Nemanja. They probably want to create some cave Serbia again, which is why the creator of the Serbian state, Stefan Nemanja, bothers them. They want to tear it down, move it, but I think they want to put Tanya Fajon and Viola von Kramon in his place. It's kind of my feeling, because according to them, Tanya Fajon and Viola von Kramon seem to be far more valuable and more important to them than the founder of the Serbian state, Stefan Nemanje. Stefan Nemanja said there are no people without land and we have to protect our country. But, let me remind you, except that they made our country the biggest museum, to remind you how we whineed in 2012. That's what my colleague Martinovic must remember. So, at a time when we asked for elections just a year earlier to stop the collapse of the museum they made of Serbia, we couldn't win even though it gathered twice over 100,000 people at protests that were reported in accordance with the law. So it wasn't possible. From the media, those who advocate freedom of the media advocate the freedom of their media, or the media to be freed under their control, to shoot now, eh, editors and, what they said, to arrest editors, owners. Let me remind you, they arrested one of them in their day. His name was Raja Rodic, founder of "The Voice of the Public" and "Kurira". The "Kurir" was involved at the time with the police, in the "BK TV" closed by long pipes and stopped by a television that, in my opinion, was perfectly normal and which was, in turn, very politically unscathed, unlike some other televisions. It was their freedom of the media. We didn't share national frequencies. At the time, all national frequencies were shared by the parties of the former regime. Not our wives were editors at RTS, but their wives and their editorial teams entered RTS and stayed until today. So we weren't banning printed media. They banned, I think, a leaf that, while they ruled, was called "Nacional" which was the most violent. None of us were on unreported demonstrations, nor did he perform them. They beat people up at public gatherings, and one of the protesters killed them. So we didn't do any of that, and we just asked for a year to make the election too early. We should never have mentioned electoral laws, let alone asked for a change of electoral laws to our advantage. We shouldn't have imagined that the extraparliamentary parties had some term in RTS, that was impossible. There were no outside parties, and for God's sake, to be unregistered political parties, NGOs or anti-government organisations, associations of non-registered citizens as political parties receiving money outside, which political parties cannot and by law is forbidden, you could not imagine. Imagine in their time the extraparliamentary parties couldn't, imagine yet the extraparliamentary unregistered party. Well, you could have killed yourself, but such a person, a representative of such an organization, couldn't have been found there. And registered parties have very rarely been given the opportunity to find themselves on the RTS information shows. Now, those who had no guarantee of freedom except themselves didn't want a year earlier to move the deadline for the elections to get Serbia out of the mud as quickly as possible, because it was in my opinion a national interest to give up even on their own, to see for themselves that they had the support of 20% of the citizens at that time and to say – people, we've ruined everything so far, let's give it a chance to win the elections a year earlier maybe someone else wins and try to get the country out of the crisis. It wasn't just possible. With 127 MPs and 20% rating support, they ruled until the last day they could rule. As they dealt with political opponents in the campaigns, I felt best, as against candidate Boris Tadic at St. Stefan's, I was masculinely beaten in downtown Belgrade, and the media reported some side portals there, about the third day after the beating. So it was not known to anyone that one opponent, as he is - was, Boris Tadic was beaten in downtown Belgrade and that they did not find it appropriate to apologize, but even said that under the influence of alcohol he attacked a group of young men of ten. We never found out what this group is, etc. They were very cruel and raw when they were in power, and now we're making a concession. Last time I made a concession, Mr. Martinovic, I didn't go very well. Last time I came here to St. Mark's in 2020, and they, believers from the Dvora, great believers, beat me with a donkey on St. Mark's between two horses. So, when we wanted to make it easier for them to collect signatures. You couldn't have imagined that during their government, the municipal authorities were helping to collect signatures or, my God, like this proposal that one voter could sign more nominations, so in that way we have more lists when we go to elections, because it was the opposite of today. The ruling parties had a number of these electoral lists and most of them in the RIK and election committees. The strongest party, the Serbian Radical Party, which later grew into the Serbian Progressive Party, had election committees and tried to keep the opposition alive as long as possible. But these were organized parties, unlike these, externally created, not creative, but externally created unfortunates, who experience democracy, and I tell them -- there are countries without democracy, but there is no democracy without state, and they want the state to crash. They see democracy as an imperial product to be given to them by the English, Americans, Tanja Fajon and Viola von Kramon, to order democracy, two, three buckets, to bring them to Belgrade. But democracy is not an imperial product that can be implanted in the people just like that. Democracy is primarily a process and in this process the opposition cannot threaten by shooting, hanging, killing, chasing the streets, rape, crackdowns, violent changes in power, etc. and in doing so a series of crimes. So you can't have democracy against the opposition, the works, the great part of the opposition, which advocates violence to conquer power, because violence can't be democracy. Everything we want to do to them and everything we can do to them, we do to them. So we downloaded the censorship from 5% to 3%, and instead of commending it, because most of them can hardly cross 3% of the censorship, they said that we are changing the law before the elections, etc., although that provision should help them to enter parliament and that the citizens who voted for them are represented. They claimed that it was, I don't know, a change of electoral laws before the election itself, that it wasn't right, etc. Even Tanya Fajon was on their side. Today, unlike their time, you have their cable operator. One, Solak of Southampton reported to support Gilas of Mauritius, claiming that the Serb people live in science fiction, in the matrix, etc. Even in scientific fiction, you can't make that much money to drive three "falcons". From this science fiction, Gilas and Mr. Solak benefited most. So they wouldn't be buying Southampton today if they had built that capital somewhere outside, which would be impossible, they wouldn't be buying football clubs today, and in Mauritius they had 619m euros. So, they have a cable operator, they have 30 Luxembourg-registered channels that allegedly re-emitting the program, basically a lie, the programme is being created in Belgrade. So they have television. During their rule at Copernicus, the Serbian Progressive Party has had two or three hours of leased term for the past six months, and that was all. In 2012, they were fragile social networks, very poorly available to a large number of citizens in the Republic of Serbia. Today, in the era of social networks, when more than 70% of citizens are informed through social networks, conditions for opposition work are far more favourable than they were then. Today they have ‘Time’, NIN, ‘Week’, ‘Blic’, ‘Today’, etc. The opposition also shut down that "Justice" list before 2012, when the ruling majority consisted of opposition parties. Today, they're not doing well either, they're still talking about how the media is not free, and the loudest noise is unregistered media, because in Serbia you have a series of unregistered TVs, you have a series of unregistered portals, you have unregistered political parties, you have unregistered gatherings, so nobody kills them, even in road robbery and preventing freedom of movement, where some of them from "yellow" went to "green" and harassing citizens. They think they're the elite and they're just the people. We're not the people. Those who sit patiently in the cars that have been blocked and those who have been beaten with shouts: "Mother you peasant" etc., defending as Sunday, so they are not the people for them, they are the people alone. Those others who don't think like them are not people, it's Marinko's Bara, etc., and they think they're the only ones who have the right, like the elite, to be free, they can be the owners of their freedom, but also our freedoms. I guess we have the right to think, too, I guess we have the right to be a people, but they think it's the right to be exclusive and that only those in Belgrade can have it. They are the most dissatisfied, although they have the best roads, theatres, stadiums, etc., they play some elite, because they are against the state that invests most in Belgrade. We have patriotic feelings, we who know what the country is, over the cabin, our voters go over the cabin to vote, by the dirt road, go to vote because they know what the country's interest is, they know what patriotism is, they know what it means to save the country from the unfortunates who gathered around Solakov, right, Mr. Djukanovic, and Gilas's business. That's what I said to you on television shows four or five years ago that they would all gather around that business to defend Solak and Gilas, who became masters during their reign, and now they became their servants. So they helped them become masters, and now they've become their servant. Imagine, in the derby election, the election derby, imagine how they picture it. "Multicom" against Southampton. Gilas is playing a centrifuge, and Marinika is just about to decide who she's gonna defend, wearing a list, she's just gonna see, our high-flyer, who she'd like to defend. Imagine Sergei Trifunović as the manager in Moravic, the manager there, because he thinks coke is cocaine, for him it's coke cocaine, and imagine Chad helping him, the Cheda assistant, right? That's how they see democracy. What Mr. Vukic made possible to the opposition, to be honest, I would never give them. I didn't even hide it. So, I would never allow such unregistered media, with unregistered parties, with unregistered gatherings, to rampage on the roads, because I would ask that the law prevent the law of the forces that they are pushing these months, various environmentalists to whom it is sacred -- they will not do this, they will not. They tend to see someone outside helping them, because no one can bring down Serbia from the outside until they find some unfortunate people willing to help them from the inside. Remember General Simovic, the same schedule of forces, there some British, there some, well, Americans were still far away, gave God that they were so far away and others, remember General Simovic. I now understand what thoughts forced him to be a traitor, to introduce Serbs into war for 200,000 pounds and to flee as Teodorovic, to move the malts to the aggressor side like Teodorovic, or to go to London, to Great Britain, to bring the royal army into war, to allow the dispersion of the former Yugoslavia, thus creating that biological phenomenon in Jajco – from one egg six products, six republics. So without him, it wouldn't have happened. He pushed Serbia into ruin, and then came in 1946, right Mr. Martinovic, to testify against Draža Mihajlovic, whom he dragged into the war and sent over the mountains and the gourds to fight, unfortunately against the communists who wanted to go through the revolution. Now I understand what drove Simovic, by the behaviour of those of today's opposition who are ready, I have never been ready to play as others play. Those who have learned to play as others play, apparently easily find the boss of the player. One minute it's Tanya Fajon, the second time this von Kramon, who's fighting us for ecology, and if her country was involved in the bombing of this country's poor uranium, and I guess she thinks lithium is so harmful, and so there's the poored uranium medicine. It is very clear that they have joined one another, that those who pressure us on the outside, and those unfortunates who help them on the inside, that they are willing, not to bring down power in Serbia, but to return Serbia back to the museum that was created in 2020. So it's very clear that they want to fight between us, to call for conflicts. I must remind the unfortunates gathered around Gilas that in the conflict with ourselves we are surely losing ourselves, that Ducic long ago said that our conflicts of hate are the only benefits of our enemies. My advice is to listen to Ducic and to understand from each other divisions and hatreds and mutual conflicts that we will certainly not benefit, but our opponents and enemies will benefit. I'd like our opponents, our enemies to have chiefs of staff, the guy on our accident doesn't have, the guy, Zdravko Ponoš, because in that case there wouldn't be any dangers in the environment against the state of Serbia. Unfortunately for us, they do not have the kind of general staff that would disarm armies in the environment, it happened only to Serbia, it was easier for them to buy Ponoš, and I especially talk about Croats, than to finance some efficient missile system against tanks. What as a minority partner, I beg the ruling parties who are far greater and more powerful than me than they are we will ask nothing but a convincing victory over these unfortunates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12126	I thank the authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. Since all the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups have spoken, we are moving on to the list of speakers. The first to report for the word is National MP Misala Pramenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12127	I thank the President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, representatives of the ministries, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a very important set of electoral laws and other laws that have somewhat been the product of changing electoral laws, and we have heard a lot today in our arguments. Namely, the solutions reached are the overwhelming result of the dialogue that has been conducted in recent months and what is very important is that when a compromise is reached between the ruling parties and the opposition and there is a certain solution, and all in order to improve the electoral process, it is certainly commendable, because we do not need to view these changes in the short term, but rather as a positive effect that will reflect in the long run all election processes and that we must not look at the things directly affecting us, whether or not we are affected, but that we try to make the legal solutions as best possible and that the less changes and additions later actually require. Members of the SPP headed by our leader, rickets, academicist Muamer Zukorlic, have certainly taken active part in the dialogue and their constructive proposals and, among other things, these legal solutions that we have on the agenda today. Certainly our focus was in these negotiations to improve electoral conditions when it comes to the very lists of national minorities. In this regard, there were several proposals that were included, as we have already heard, a reduction in the number of certified statements or signatures from ten to five thousand for the lists of national minorities is an important change and we consider it quite appropriate in relation to the previous solution. On the other hand, the lists of national minorities are now participating in the allocation of mandates. Those lists of national minorities who win less than three percent will increase by 35%, which is also significant. What was one of our requirements, which was not found in this set of laws this time, which will probably, as you have pointed out yourself, be the product of some broader change and say the renewal of the electoral system itself, is the question of reducing the number of MPs in the lists of national minorities, in the formation of parliamentary clubs in the Assembly, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia from five percent to three percent of the MPs. This would certainly mean changing the Law on the National Assembly and expecting it to happen in the future. Then, besides others, there is the Law on funding political activities that is very important, in a way it will speed up transparency and efficiency during the election process itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12128	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12129	I want first of all to offer my condolences to the family of Mrs. Ksenija Vukic, who retired, whom I had the privilege of knowing and knowing that she had a lot of influence on our political and media system as well. With regard to the laws that we are talking about today, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies, however, solves quite well some categories, but it leaves out the problem of that category of civil servants and deputies who allow these sessions to be maintained, these are the accompanying services in the home of the National Assembly and the building of the National Assembly, they have a problem with their salaries that are quite low and I ask the authorities to pay attention to that because their representatives have asked me to signal this. As for the laws proposed today, I will vote on all these laws in the voting day, and in that sense I am doing something to make sure my colleagues from other opposition groups resent me. Also, now in the evening of an election campaign where we will all talk about each other at times and too hard and too hard, I want to do something else, which is to congratulate the ruling majority, colleagues from the ruling majority, above all from the SNS, the SPS and other colleagues from the ruling majority on the statehood, consciousness, responsibility and willingness to meet opposition parties to adopt this proposal of electoral change that is good, leading to social consensus and that are going in the good direction of the solution of our electoral system. I will now take the opportunity to rely on what Minister Obradovic said, concerning the fact that this will not be a change of electoral conditions only for these elections but will be seriously considered and continued after the election to work on changing the entire electoral system. It is necessary and good, and in this sense I will take advantage of this time that I have to say a few ideas about how the public network sees the need to change the electoral system, especially because we think that our political system, which has been wandering both left and right for 30 years, has come into a situation that is so sick that it is causing problems for the continued functioning of the state. This political system implies that as when a doctor has a patient who has several systemic diseases, he cannot treat just one, but must parallelly several of these systemic diseases, some important organs. The electoral system is just one part of it. So we need to make changes in the electoral system, change in the media system and change in the party model to get to what we all see, which is that even society thinks this political system is no longer working properly. In this regard, as far as the electoral system is concerned, it has already matured awareness in society that it is necessary for MPs as representatives of the people who bear the sovereignty of the people to bind more to voters than to political parties. How can that be achieved? I guess the best thing to think about is at Serbia's level about some mixed, which is the majority, which is a proportional system, there are more models I can't talk about right now. But one thing is very important, which is that at least on a local level we can apply the majority system, because that way we would get a full connection of local councilors to their voters, and we would break that unpleasant link between the party headquarters to the local level. Apart from these and many other changes, however, nothing will mean a change in the electoral system if we continue to live in a media system that is completely dysfunctional, which is entirely unpleasant and which at least comes down to how many political representatives, whether authorities or oppositions or some parties will take more pictures on the media or less. That's important, but it's not crucial. While these battles are being fought, we forget that at this point, due to an unnatural privatisation of the media, most of Serbia does not have its local public services. It is paradoxical that we, in line with the requirements of the European Union, could also have regional public services, at least at the level of Austria that has six regional public services, and we in Serbia have only one province that can be considered regional, so the people of Vojvodina are privileged to have their own regional public service. It is something that should be returned for the simple reason that the whole part of Serbia is in the dark, in that sense there is no public interest in covering it. It is necessary to introduce a commitment in the media, because you cannot talk about independent media, media can only be objective and professional. To do that, journalists must be protected. It is unacceptable that there are no journalists' unions in many media. The state has to intervene here. Journalists should be licensed, so that they are different from civilian journalists and that they are protected, and that the media cannot be established without a number of licensed journalists. As for the party model, we need staff parties with collegiate bodies, not mass parties with strong leaders, and these are all the things that we need to happen to finally get us a system that will fit our people and our sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12130	I thank the People's MP, Vladan Glisic. I apologize for ringing several times along the way, but the MPs are so loud, the fire in the hall, I can't hear the speaker. So please, if you have anything to talk about, get out of the O.R. and in the O.R. to respect the speaker, because this is a high house. I thank you for your understanding. Before I give my word to the MP, I must announce to you, you have received the resignation of MP Samir Ćosovic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The report of the Committee on Administrative Budgetary and Delegated Immunity Issues of the National Assembly for the purpose of considering this resignation, which determined that the resignation was the case referred to in Article 88(2). The Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliament and proposes - that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(3) and Article 4 of the same law, determines the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on the proposal of the Committee on Administrative Budgetary and Delegated Immunity Issues of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office had ceased before the time of its election, MP Samir Ćosovic, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of the vacancy in the National Assembly will be carried out. The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Bakarec, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12131	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. Dear Madam Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens, amend electoral legislation otherwise those implemented by the SNS from 2019 to today, including this, have made Serbia the most fair and attractive state. The regimes that ruled, otherwise at the time of the multilaterals that I fully remember, because for 32 years, I have been involved in politics, from 1990 to 2012 have never offered the opposition such attractive electoral conditions. And this best testifies to the reconciliation and broadness of SNS and President Vukic. There is certainly all of you already know that famous folk saying – from the milk bird, which is used to describe indescribable luxury and abundance. And this particular saying describes the luxury and abundance of electoral bird milk in Serbia. If we from the SNS and there is Mr Djukanovic very right, if we continue to improve the electoral conditions we will have to commit to introducing the opposition through censors and parliament, in arms or on our backs. I hope we don't do that. As for the amendments to electoral legislation, otherwise these fantastic measures from 1919 to today have 36 large ones, there is a series of sublaws in measures, so let's just remember for a little while. So, since 1919, censorship has been carried out from 5% to 3% in 2020. So the less represented sex cannot be represented by less than 40%, the limited use of public resources for political purposes is prohibited, the abuse of the position of director of public enterprises has been banned, all members of REM have been selected, there were five. New rules have been laid down for public media services, the Supervisory Board has been established for 20 years and a few years, a single electoral list has been verified, and then after September 2021, after the dialogue that I took part in, and it was my honor to take part in the party's name and to participate, we have won 16 and we have implemented 16 agreed measures there. I'll only give you 10 quick. The Interim Supervisory Body was established, half of the post was given to the opposition, a binding regulation of media public services was made, all media have to publish their tariffs, the Law on Electronic Media was amended, recommendations for temporary broadcasters were adopted, a methodology for monitoring the media during the campaign was defined, a corresponding distribution key was established on public media services, only regulation was adopted again concerning media public services, an improved system against the fight against abuse of public functions, an amended and complemented the Anti-Corruption Act. The permanent composition of the RIK has also been changed, adding 6 more members and 6 deputies, again in favour of the opposition and has changed the way of financing the election campaign's costs, according to the opposition's will, that's the tenth change, of these 16, there are another 6. These last amendments to the legislation, which we will vote on Friday, I hope, because I will vote for it, therefore, again the last amendments to this, which we are now discussing and requested by the opposition, will be adopted. The newspapers are next – the voter can support more lists by his signature, the parties of the national minorities will need twice as many signatures, i.e. 5,000, deadlines for the protection of the electoral right have been extended, the deadline for handover of the electoral lists has been raised from 15 to 20 days ahead of the elections and instead of the RIK working bodies, a new third electoral body is being introduced, i.e. local electoral commissions, i.e. LIK. So, for the first time, the rules separate easy mistakes, to help and better determine the records, which have been resolved without insight, we have protection of the electoral right, which now protects on three levels instead of on two levels, so RIK, LIC and the Administrative Court, and applicants of the electoral list can seek insight into 5% of the sample, in principle in the territory of one electoral commission, on the principle of challenge. So there's still a lot of changes and improvements, so these main ones have as many as 36. I ask you, when who, so to speak, in Serbia's recent history, has offered the opposition, we are talking about parliamentaryism, but perhaps even a pre-dead opposition like this, such good electoral conditions. And then, of course, there's a logical question. Of course, the Gilasovites, which is why you boycotted the 2020 elections, and which is why you are now going to the elections if your decision was to boycott was correct and of course you have now proven that it is not. Despite all these gifts for the opposition, all of what I have listed, which is fantastic, you heard, the Gilasian part of the opposition threatens us with the change of government in the street in the blood, threatens that even if they win and lose, and they will lose, to chase us in the streets, to throw us in the Sava and the Danube, to judge the courts of the revolution, and Gilasov, Jeremic, Ponishev and Vladite Jankovic, the programme, are blood, revenge, rematch, lustration, and promise to bring down not only in Belgrade, everything that has been built so far, and Gilas and Jeremic, otherwise they themselves must not run for themselves, so they plant different puppets, towers, paravan candidates and Ponos in Serbia and the Government of Jankovic in Belgrade. And with that in the hardest relationship, about what I'm talking about right now, is the candidacy that has just been presented today by one candidate for president, which is Ponos. So, what's the problem with this man? You heard what Mr. Marijan Risticevic said about him great. I'll say. So the problem with Poš is that he loves Croatia and Zagreb more than Serbia and Belgrade. The problem is that Zdravko Ponos is Croatia and NATO's candidate for president of Serbia. The problem is that Posh Gilas is a candidate. Otherwise, the Pride is from Knin. Here, today, General Mitar Kovac said that Ponos did not defend both Knin and Republika Srpska Krajina, while other officers who were born there did so. He says General Kovac that the Croats were taking the bear to their native village and Brione to recover a little. Zdravko Ponoš, and that is the problem, was with him a yellow general, or chief of staff at the time of Boris Tadic. Then Boris Tadic and everyone else, both Djilas and Jeremic, replaced him and was fired from the military service because Ponoš, even for their taste, therefore, even for the taste of Tadic and Sutanovac, who were too much for NATO and served US and NATO interests. The services, watch out, the services recorded Ponoshe's address, and it was also recorded by the "Vikilix" dispatches, and it's proud of the US senator that the army's composition will reduce from 62,000 to 27,000 people, watch out, you've heard about the melting of tanks, that they will close down numerous barracks and make an effort to change the way we think about our armed forces in terms of being 100% for NATO. U.S. diplomats are in dispatches, published by Viklyks, watch out, here, these are dispatches, number 06BELGRADE842 since 26 May 2006 and since 2 June 2006, the number of dispatches is 06BELGRADE880. There's all this stuff in those dispatches that I just said about Senator Jim Inhof's visit, etc. Since Gilas has been pushing Ponos in his media, as a candidate for president at the Pride's Shame, he has received support for the candidacy right out of his Croatia. So the Croatian portal "Dnevno" published the text titled, quote – "Married Croatia, Serbia finally wakes up". The Croatian morning newspaper publishes the text under the title – "The opposition card against Vučić, General Married Croatian". In these texts they say that Ponos is in love with Zagreb, because he lived there until 24 years old and described his love for Zagreb very much. When we know all this, we can ask ourselves why Zdravko Poš is not running for president of Croatia. The proud programme is -- NATO Serbia -- it's the thesis of the SAA that Serbia committed genocide and Gilas's thesis that 99% of Serbs from Kosovo are criminals. It's a proud program. Today, Gilas presented the same second candidate for Belgrade Mayor Vladet Jankovic. That's where I'm going to have to put my personal impressions, that's where there's more people who've known him, I've known him for 30 years, so I'm going to share with you certain things in no way gossip and nothing false, but only the truth, as Djukanovic says -- only the truth, always the truth. So, you set up Gilas' puppet at 82 years old, Vladeta Jankovic performed a political salto mortal. Here, I'll tell you. So, on January 7, 2022, Jankovic criticised and thought of himself as a candidate and said, on TV "N1", I have to be private when I talk about it, I have a lot, 81 years, to propose someone at this age, not only not serious, but not responsible. We agree, but why did you run? And then, three weeks ago, Mr. Vladeta Jankovic was on Gilas TV "New S", said he would not run and cited three impossible conditions, in fact, to run. He said: “I would run, but that is the third condition if I were 10 years younger. “ We don’t know if he got younger in the meantime. Mr. Jankovic said on one television in 2020 that he was seriously ill and stated that he had two lung attacks in London in 2003, end of quotes, and he says so himself. Also, what is known, Mr. Jankovic has never dealt with local self-government for 81 years. Here, I'll tell you, from 1992 to 2008, I was a municipal councilman in the municipality of Stari Grad, from 2008 until now, so I'm a city councilman for 14 years. So I absolutely know local self-government. That man never did that. My people, Belgrade needs a mayor to chase, to deal with sewers, plumbing, ecology, construction, social, schools, kindergartens, as the Serbian Progressive Party candidate will do when he wins, normally, in the elections. Can you imagine Vladeta Jankovic doing all that? You can't, of course. Again, I'll quote him. He says himself he's not qualified to be mayor. Here, in an interview with TV "N1" on January 27, 2022, I quote: "I am simply, not only because of my age, but also professional equipment not qualified to manage the city, but I can gather, watch out now, a professional and honest team. “ Now, professional, honest, but also team. This last one is totally hilarious, and it's just a contradiction. Look out, Gilas' team of honest and professional. Just to ask, is she the same team that robbed him from 2008 to 2013, Belgrade and devastated him? Is that the team? I'll tell you next, it's the same contradiction. So Vladeta Jankovic stepped on Gilas' list, actually supported Gilas. I was a member of the 2013 presidency in October when it was also decided that together with the Serbian Progressive Party we would replace Dragan Gilas. I was at that session, Vladeta Jankovic was at that session, and Vladeta Jankovic and I voted for Gilas' shift. So in 2013, Vladeta Jankovic voted to replace Gilas. I remember what he said at that Bureau session at the time. He was talking about Belgrade's heist power. Basically, he was talking about Gilas. Next, by accepting the mayoral candidacy of any kind, Vladeta Jankovic accepted Gilasov and Marinika's programme, and their programme is that Serbia is genocide. Namely, I'll remind you of this. Vladeta Jankovic, on February 26th 2007, as a foreign policy adviser to Prime Minister Kostunica for the International Court of Justice's ruling in The Hague, which found that Serbia did not commit genocide in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Vladeta Jankovic praised the decision and reiterated that Serbia did not commit genocide. Today, Jankovic, by accepting the candidacy offered by Gilas and Marinika, tramples everything he did long ago, here until yesterday, during 23 years, and against what he voted on the DSS organs. Today, Jankovic's position is equal to that of the marines, which is -- they both blame Serbia and the Serb people for committing genocide. What an inconsistencies. Look, I am sure that Vojislav Kostunica is turning his guts from torment when he sees his former decades-old vice president Vladeta Jankovic become Gilas' puppet and blames his people for a genocide that has not been committed. Otherwise, Jankovic's programme in Belgrade, it has repeatedly repeated, is the destruction of the monument to Stefan Nemanja and its transfer, if not to Marink's bar, then somewhere else. He's not only disrespecting, of course, the residents of Marink's bar, he shows that he's a shameless, arrogant elitist, which he's always been. So, the programme of Vladite Jankovic, except that he won't build a subway, as he said today at a press conference, is his programme of destroying "Beograda na Voda". Namely, he said he would, practically for Belgrade's chief architect, set up Dragoljub Bakic. Dragoljub Bakic's programme, which is usually a candidate for the list "We don't strangle Belgrade", you have in the media as many times as you want it – Dragoljub Bakic's programme, the candidate of Vladite Jankovic's main architect, is that he will bring down "Belgrade on Water". Also, Vladeta Jankovic has repeated it several times today and said she announced the return of the main railway station to the Sava Square. In order for him to do so, I say once again, to bring down "Belgrade on Water", because the tracks no longer exist. It's clear where the main train station is, in Prokop, the first stage is over. Otherwise, today to see that it is a kind of "Biden", but which, if demented, Vladeta Jankovic is today on the issue of journalists at a press conference on the issue – what would be his first step if she came to power in Belgrade, said the following, quote, is very fun. Listen, Vladeta Jankovic says: "The first thing I will do is to prevent what is causing direct damage, we need to stop Lesce. “ Be careful, the mayoral candidate for Belgrade says he will stop Lesce. Why, Black Wolf, should we stop Lesce? And New, and Central? You know what that looks like? That's what - Gilas' marathons run the final round. Vledeta - Pantelija, Lutovac - Makisimilijan, Ponoš - Aksentije, Đilas - Milutin, Jeremic - Laki, Miki Alexić - Mirko, Siniša Kovacevic, of course - Billy Python, Marinika - Kristina, and Borko is who? Well, Genka. Now let me get serious. Just over a year ago, Vladeta Jankovic, on TV show "No Censorship", announced and appealed to Vukic's death on December 29, 2020, saying, "By the way, I believe that once the trial time of Vukic will come, it will be of great importance." Are you listening to this? If either of us had said that Gilasu would have reached the time of the trial, the UN, the OSCE, would have reported to the European mediators. They would be sentenced to death, expelled from parliament, from politics, etc., and this is what Vladeta Jankovic said. Now let's get to some brighter things. Why will SNS and President Vukic win the election? He's gonna win for fantastic results in the last ten years. The best programme is what President Vucic and SNS have done over the past ten years, raising Serbia, building Serbia, injecting Serbia, treating Serbia, treating the past from the present for the future and giving only a small portion of the results. Unemployment was 25%, as it was in 2012, down to a minimum now, in 2020, of 9%. Inflation is the lowest in the last 50 years and is 1.3%, while at the time of the yellow government in 2011, it was 11%. Since 2012, pensions have increased by 30%. The average profit compared to 2012 is doubled and is now 610 euros. Serbia is the first in the number of foreign direct investments. Since 2012, Serbia has attracted more than 21 billion euros. We opened the famous "Balkan Stream". Corridor 10 was completed after 50 years. The "Milos Veliki" highway was built, Belgrade - Cačak 120km. There are ten more highways under way. Two huge bridges were built, the one on the Vrela River on Corridor 10 at Vladica's Han, a huge bridge and the other "Zeljev Bridge" in Novi Sad after 23 years. The Belgrade - Budapest railway is being built, and soon in March the share will be completed from Belgrade to Novi Sad, where trains will go 180-200km per hour. In five years, one billion euros has been invested in health care. Many hospitals have been built throughout Serbia. Three covids of the hospital, KBC Nis, the Hospital for Internal Diseases in Vojvodina, Kamenica 3, KCV, KBC Zemun, have been restored to Tiršova 1, and hospitals in Pirrot, Gornji Milanovac, Loznica, Palanci, Vrbas, Leskovac, Arangelovac, Prokuplje were reconstructed, and the construction of the Clinical Centre of Serbia is close. Serbia got it in time when no one had it, vaccines. Now we have five species. We make vaccines, we build another vaccine factory. We bought all the drugs against Kovid. Two super modern bird labs were built. Serbia has financially supported citizens and businesses. Let us remember 100 euros to help full-time citizens, 100 euros to help all young people, 27,000 pensioners, 10,000 healthcare workers, 60 euros to all Serbian citizens. Another round of aid to the unemployed was 60 euros again, additional assistance to pensioners another 50 euros. All vaccines were given, let's remember, 3,000 dinars, independent artists 90,000 dinars. What's very important, the first time they've been passed, and it's been going back years, measures of population policy. The foster parents have been helped. For the first child, mothers receive one hundred thousand, for the second child 10,000 per month for two years, for the third child 12,500 dinars per month for 10 years and for the fourth child 18,000 dinars over 10 years. Here, I'm done. An even better programme will be what President Vucic and SNS will do in the next four years, raising Serbia, building Serbia, injecting Serbia, treating Serbia, treating the past in the present for the future. Betrayal is not an option. Winning is an option. Long live Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12132	Thank you, Mr. Copper. The next reported is Dr. Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12133	Dear Minister, distinguished guests, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament and MPs, proposed solutions, and that is the most important, which are now ahead of us, and were the matter of long-term talks between the opposition and our government, above all have the task of creating and creating and strengthening a climate of trust in the electoral process that we have in Serbia. I would like to stress, for the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that this government has done everything, that it has been ready to talk in every place, in every form and, as you can see, to accept almost all suggestions and almost all proposals, indeed, by showing a desire to restore citizens' confidence in our country's electoral process and to ensure what we are constantly talking about, which is that we have free elections, fair elections, and that we always stand behind these postulates. It is no less important that we have brought these laws into line with the EU. Few that the country in the EU has an open and transparent way of choosing both the president and the MPs. As you heard today, more than 17,000 will be people who will be at the polls. So it's absolutely impossible for any irregularities to happen without being recorded and it's guaranteed that this government believes in its results and believes in its sure victory. The new laws, which I am represented as a representative of national minorities and as president of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights, are extremely pleased, under a special paragraph dealing with the way and running of minority parties, i.e. minority lists and these laws, and the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, and the Law on the Selection of Local Self-Government, are further guaranteed and rightly resolve all the dilemmas that have existed so far. First of all, clear rules have been specified when RIK will determine the position of the national minority list. The law defined it to avoid any abuses which, unfortunately, the public has seen many times in our country, either. Special attention is paid to the prevention of possible abuses by introducing a special member of the law that is directed at the ban on playing this law. The Electoral List of National Minorities is considered a list selected and the Commission has established that its main objective is to present and represent the interests of national minorities, as well as to protect and improve the rights of members of the national minority, which is right with all standards, both our and our EU. Perhaps the most significant thing for minority parties is that the number of signatures needed to declare the national minority list is double. So, with ten thousand now, it'll only take five thousand and this is a big deal for national minorities, especially for national minorities whose numbers are small in our country. It is certainly commendable to introduce a new member of the Law on People's MPs that regulates gender equal representation and in RIK, and I must say that this will no longer be a good will of the party, but to remind that we in the SDPS have always taken care of the gender balance, so that we currently have both genders represented in the RIK. I want to look back, and I'm sorry that an extremely important law that we're discussing today, because of the importance of these other laws, has no such attention to the Social Entrepreneurship Act. I remind you that in Serbia the social economy is, its contribution to gross national income is only 0.2%, i.e. around 10,000 people in this branch were employed, i.e. in this form. In the world, in some developed countries, such as Sweden, social entrepreneurship accounts for 10% of GDP and around 15 million people have been employed in this sector in some developed countries. We are today for the first time in a comprehensive way, through a single law, through a truly necessary Social Entrepreneurship Act, for the first time edit this area and develop awareness of the importance of the social economy and create a favourable environment for the development of social entrepreneurship. There is no doubt that socially sensitive groups need additional support, as well as equal inclusion in community life streams. The very feeling that you belong, that they have, that they are a useful part of society and that they work and contribute to their country, is a really big thing. What we do with this law, eat to really support people with disabilities, any kind of person, get a chance to work and show their productivity, because they're a significant part of our society. The city of Novi Pazar pays great attention to social entrepreneurship and in conditions where we did not have this law, the city financed social entrepreneurship with several grants of over 4,000 in co-operation with the GIZ. As an example, we have this project "NP Handicrafts", which imported a huge number of women in this region and they set up a state ethic network. There are many more such examples in Novi Pazar, where we are really trying to strengthen this form of social entrepreneurship in every way. In any case, given that social entrepreneurship is very important for us from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, we will support this law in the spirit, as well as everyone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12134	Thank you. The word is from the vice president of the National Assembly, Marija Jevdzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12135	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister with Associates, we have several laws on today's agenda establishing higher standards of democracy and transparency for the overall electoral process. We know that it is not in practice for the electoral laws to change before the elections, but we are now doing so because it is the result of an inter-party dialogue and the OSCE's recommendations, so that the electoral conditions in Serbia are all relatively satisfied. These proposed laws most came out to meet opposition parties. And you, the minister, said that at least 16,000 observers, if we look at extended compositions, that's about 80,000 observers will have opposition parties, plus another member, plus one in municipal election commissions, that's 160 municipalities, per two members, that's another 320 observers, so if they want and if they have human resources, they can very easily control the elections. As far as Unique Serbia is concerned, you could hear today from my colleague, Life Starcevic, that we have no problems with election laws, because we know that they do not affect the will of citizens, but actions. A unique Serbia has worked exclusively since its founding, led by Dragan Markovic Palm, and has only led to the interest of our citizens. We have shown that from students to pensioners, not to mention health workers and farmers, we have always helped and we will always help and lead to Serbia being a country of equal opportunities for all. As far as Unity Serbia is concerned, we participated in an inter-party dialogue. We believe that an effective platform has been provided to exchange and build consensus among the various political forces on issues crucial to the future of Serbian democracy. Law proposals do not change the essential aspects of elections for MPs, elections for the president of Serbia and the council, and so far the legislative solutions that can be seen as the basic postulate of the electoral process in Serbia are maintained. I think the new laws bring the most of the papers on the protection of rights in the electoral process and the easier running for the political parties of national minorities. We heard today that national minorities with 10,000 signatures have been reduced to 5,000 signatures, as well as the organisation and transparency of the work of the electoral authorities. Special progress can be seen through the effective work of the electoral commission, which will publish its decisions on its web presentation and from the time of publication of the decision on the web presentation, the deadlines for the submission of prescribed legal means are starting and will not be possible for abuse, as has been the case so far, that certain political, usually opposition organisations do not receive notices and thus delay the election process. There has been a lot of controversy about the introduction of local electoral commissions in the election for MPs, but the JS believes it improves the efficiency of the electoral process, but also additional legal protection and control of the electoral process. I believe that there are responsible people in the local election committees, who will be very responsible for monitoring and doing the elections that are coming to us. Another one of the papers introduced by this set of laws is that for the first time, the law prescribes a deadline within which a constitutional assembly of the local self-government unit must be convened. In order to prevent the possibility of obstruction, a 10-day deadline has been prescribed for the president of the Assembly of the previous assembly to convene a session, but also for the obligation to determine its maintenance within 30 days of the date of publication of the decision on the mandate on the website. As I said, the proposed set of laws is the result of a parallel inter-party dialogue on election conditions with the participation of European parliamentarians, i.e. without their participation, and on the other hand, recommendations from the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights of the European Security and Co-operation Organisation have been made. I think it's a good way to ensure democracy and the right to vote in Serbia as much as possible, because the only interest of any political party, whether it belongs to the government or it is the opposition, should be the life of our citizens and citizens. The question Serbia should not give up on is to ensure conditions for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, I don't think anyone has talked about it today, vote in the next elections and not repeat the situation... Mr. Orlic, can you just get a little bell? I can't hear myself talking, if you believe. I think the Minister, she looks at me all the time, and I don't think she hears what I'm saying, and I think this is a very important question. No one mentioned the right to elect Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and the problems we had in the previous elections when we talked about the referendum. So this is a question that we should not give up on and we should work on that, as we did in previous years, with the intermediation of an international organisation, we allow Serbs to vote on all the electoral processes conducted by the Republic of Serbia and to allow them to vote precisely on KIM, because it is, I can say freely, one of the crucial ways to keep them and survive in Kosovo. Although I liked the picture, when the Law on the Referendum was on January 16th, I accidentally found myself on my way to Rasca and I saw huge columns of our citizens who, regardless of being allowed to vote in KIM, stopped and realized the scope of the referendum and organised voting in four municipalities in Serbia. Since I don't have time anymore, I should leave it to my fellow MP, I just want to point out, and you were part of that story, Minister, two years ago, at this very time, in February we passed one historic law regarding us women who are involved in politics, which is that 40% of women will be on election lists, or all the places where they decide to be 50:50%, JS in voting day will support all the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12136	Thank you. The word is made by Vice-President of the Elvira Kovac National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12137	Thank you. The Minister of Cooperation, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, during today's debate, there has been a lot of talk about inter-party dialogue, so I will try to base myself on the fact that solutions in these legislative proposals are actually proposed, which are the result, i.e. solutions and measures in the three documents. A document, namely measures to improve the electoral process, proposed by co-facilitators or mediators from the European Parliament during the process of inter-party dialogue with the intervention of the EP, was repeatedly mentioned, and this was published on 18 September last year. Secondly, I think it is less mentioned here today, perhaps not, an agreement on improving the conditions for holding elections, which were signed by members of the Working Group for Interparty Dialogue without Foreign Intermediation, on 29 October of this year and third, which I am pretty sure we haven't talked about today, are recommendations from the final report of the ODIR Special Commission on Election Assessment, since 21 June last year. After the 2020 elections, Serbia received an additional 29 recommendations, as is known, and after the elections, the government of the Republic of Serbia renewed the work of the Working Group on Co-operation with the OSCE. So all these legal proposals that are in front of us are pooled proposals from all these three-track recommendations. It is good that the proposed solutions in a comprehensive way ensure legal certainty, equality of all participants in the elections and above all establish a legal framework for fair electoral conditions. For the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians as a minority party, first of all a regional minority party, it is extremely important to respect the standards of non-discrimination and equality of all participants in all stages of the electoral process. This is where the president of the parliamentary group spoke about the Constitution, or constitutional provisions, just earlier in the day, Dr Balint Pastor. Thus, by respecting the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the proposed solutions ahead of us, the equality and representation of members of the national minorities are ensured. Thus, by respecting the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, these proposals provide equality and representation of representatives of national minorities in representative bodies, as the right to political representation is extremely important, essential to political participation and integration of national minorities. For the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, as I mentioned, the Hungarian National Minority Party, are extremely important things that are currently related to minority parties, also discussed by the president of the parliamentary group today, as well as several colleagues. To remind ourselves, one of the most significant is that it does not change the essence, that it remains, in addition to the existing solution under which the electoral lists of national minorities participate in the allocation of mandates, according to the formula so-called. The natural threshold, with the ratios belonging to these electoral lists, if they won the number of votes below 3%, increasing by 35%. On the other hand, what was most discussed during the inter-party dialogue and what is essential for us in these proposals is to specify the concept and position of the national minority party and to establish mechanisms of protection against the abuse of this status, which occurred, unfortunately in the past, setting clear criteria for determining the status of the national minority electoral list is important in order to prevent the abuse of specific provisions and affirmative measures introduced to encourage participation, but indeed the participation of the parties of members of national minorities. The proposal for a law on local elections, which the most respected minister spoke of at the very beginning, further specify the criteria for determining the status of the minority electoral list. So, the electoral list can have the position of the national minority's electoral list only then, only in those cases where, in the territory of that national minority, there are, indeed, members of the territory and local self-government, according to the latest statistics, according to the last census and what, I think the minister has formulated it as a maximum criterion -- if members of the national minority live, their percentage is actually below 50%, up to 50%, which is completely logical and which makes the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians agree. The draft law on local elections allows the electoral commission to declare an electoral list of national minorities if the applicant submits a double number of signatures provided for by the other parties, of course, certified signatures. This is extremely important because, as we know, this proposal completely changes the way or completely different rules are prescribed for how many certified signatures are needed to hand over the electoral list and the number of necessary certified signatures no longer binds to the number of candidates, because, as we know, in the current law, there have been 30 times the number of candidates, if we talk, of course, of larger local self-governments. The number of certified signatures required now depends on the number of voters enrolled. We certainly support that the appeal of several minority parties was heard, with the right, that in many local self-governments where members of certain national minorities live at a lower percentage previously taught so-called. One-third lists and, for example, I can talk about my hometown of Zrenjanin, where in 67 council seats we taught always a list of 23 candidates, minimum, means one-third, times 30. So, so far, we've needed the number 690 signatures. If this affirmative provision did not occur that half of these signatures were necessary, the city of Zrenjanin has, as far as the registered voters are concerned, more than 100,000, this would mean that we need a thousand signatures to hand over the list, while so far it took 690, but as it says, that for the parties of the national minority half is necessary, we have reduced that number to 500. I say, that is why the appeal of many parties of national minorities has been heard, and in this way, they still make it easier to run for the local elections and in those local self-governments where their percentage is not high, and all of this is in the agreement on improving conditions for holding elections. What is most significant, which is most said, is the reduction of the necessary signatures for the republican elections, and this stands specifically as the 16th measure proposed by the European Parliament's co-facilitators, specifically to reduce the number of necessary certified signatures for the handover of parliamentary elections lists or MPs from 10,000 to 5,000, as co-facilitators also suggested, so it was a concrete measure to prevent the abuse of the law. Given the importance that the electoral system is a fundamental element of representative democracy and gears that allow the points of democracy to function properly, the parliamentary group really welcomes all the solutions that further improve the conditions and position of the electoral lists of national minorities, but we are also aware that only two months before the election, the process is complicated by introducing local electoral commissions, instead of working bodies so far, that they are different competences, powers given to RIK and other election commissions. In terms of efficiency, we believe that this proposed three-stage model of protection of voter rights is, of course, innovative and good and it is also the result of what is agreed on, but the fact is that the time for application is, unfortunately, very little and all of this, we are all aware of it, the introduction and how it will work, the objections etc. can make it very complicated and slow down the entire process of protecting voter rights and publishing official election results. So let me try to figure it out. Given the importance of the proposed changes, the fact that the participation of national minorities in public affairs is an integral element of their protection, particularly by respecting the legal certainty of the provisions that, once again I stress, are improving the rights of members of national minorities, as well as the fact that the integration process implies respect and obligations and obligations and on our part, therefore the duties and obligations undertaken by and members of national communities as members of a single society, the SVM parliamentary group will support all these proposals in the Voting Day. In the hope that media inscriptions and news are talking about the acceptance of amendments relating to the lot itself, as far as presidential matters are concerned, but more importantly for us that one voter can support a single election list, we will certainly vote for these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12138	Thank you. The word is Snow White Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12139	Thank you, Vice President. A respected minister with associates, respected colleagues and citizens of Serbia, a truly important set of laws, above all the electoral ones, you've talked nicely about it all before me, but also no less important laws that follow these electoral laws that are currently focused in Serbia. However, I will say something, simply, first of all because we are all in this room, which is that a year and a half of the days behind us have shown our determination to really do everything that is up to us as MPs and what was expected of us when the work of the legislative authority is. We helped as much as we could in spite of the difficult circumstances, the fact that both Kovid - 19 and how he burdened the conditions for the work of everyone, including us here. The consequences of all that we have done are a series of legal solutions, countless acts that we have passed, but also election laws that we are talking about today, first of all because of the electoral laws, and this has been talked about by everyone before me, who simply emerged somewhere from an inter-party dialogue that was conducted on two fronts under the watchful eye, I would say, President of Parliament, Mr. Ivica Dacic. That wasn't a bit easy under these circumstances. I could also agree with some of my colleagues who have said that such changes in election laws are directly to the detriment of the ruling majority. They are. We have made concessions that I can almost claim would not have happened if anyone else had decided about it, but it is not bad that in 2022, right before the new parliamentary elections that will take place on April 3rd, we allow everything that someone considers a quality condition to even participate in the elections. Even, I must admit, from my point of view, that we have reached legal solutions by helping them to a good extent and to win these elections as much as they need to participate in parliamentary life. All that was up to the MPs in the Serbian Parliament we did, everything that could have been arranged we tried to agree, it was only left that with our programs, I hope that it would be a way to animate the citizens, not to convince them, come to the percentage that would suit them and that they would be satisfied. Whether and how many citizens will trust all of us and ourselves who are making these laws and all those who need to choose and trust them with the right and the ability to decide at all about some future laws depends on what we bring before them. If they are political paroles that are free of content, if they are banal statements that we have often seen, threats or whatever, I can't even remember anymore, and to use simply some terms that are for a civilized dictionary, because quoting would be difficult, then probably, quality ideas and quality programs will crash around the improvement for all citizens of Serbia. If they do not have one such concept, then it is certain that the ruling majority that exists today will not have any major problems in the perspective either. So, definitely, the goal was to further democratisation and decentralised the election process somewhere, to simplify these electoral procedures, again, and only to motivate all those political actors who would affect political decision-making, but also to make it simple, so, yes, well said by fellow Djukanovic, perhaps some concessions that were not necessary for those who would definitely and such legislation and such changes criticise as inadequate, criticise as insufficient, from some of the positions from which we still haven't found a model of how to help Serbia's citizens believe what they are saying and provide space for them to eventually join the High House, or parliament of the Republic of Serbia. I wouldn't spend any more time on everything that we as politicians are all going to talk about in the election campaign, but I'm going to say one more important thing to me, and that's that I'm looking forward to as a woman, and that's what you're talking about, the Minister, the solutions that are required to take care of the less-represented sex in RIK above all and that we took seriously the Law on Gender Equality. With that in mind, I've allowed myself the luxury of using my right to use the position of the MP, to propose an amendment, to request an even greater representation of women on election lists. However, in the finale, I decided to withdraw such an amendment. But my idea was not baseless, it was primarily motivated by the fact that, starting with that natural statistics, we came to a level playing field in political life. I'm not talking about it right now with regrets, I'm sure some parliament will make that decision tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, and I'm just saying this because I've come across a bunch of arguments that have been denied that I'm right. I have heard them all, some have been justified, some have not, but I have also come across the support I want to thank first and foremost the President of the Assembly, and then the President of the Republic from the position of two important functions, two, I would say, the most influential man in Serbia understood my ambition and the fact that 54% of women live in Serbia. So let us have such an amendment for all these future times when someone else will deal with this amendment or it will become a natural state. What's important and what I'm going to look at anyway, I don't know if what I'm hearing in the O.R. is throwing on the subject of this amendment or having co-workers joke on each other, but it's nice, what I care about is that we have another law that I would really refer to, first of all, because this morning Minister Kisic Tepavcevic spoke about. I'm sorry she's not here right now, but I'm going to talk about the Social Entrepreneurship Act that I think is very important and that it's very fortunate that he finally came before us and that we're going to vote on it. It's true that for a decade we've been trying to come up with a legal solution and this is, I would say, a confirmation that this ruling coalition is, above all, a socially responsible government and that it takes care of all social groups and their social status. This time it is not the state's social assistance, but it is one support, first of all, difficult for employable categories to come to work and to create themselves conditions for self-employment according to the model of social enterprises. The content and structure of the issues dealing with this law confirms a serious approach to the state, indeed, I would say, to the most vulnerable categories of the population, primarily from those vulnerable, most vulnerable social groups, to creative people, who use innovation and some new technologies that we may or may not believe in, or understand. The task force, if I'm not mistaken, existed for the making of this law, and I'm sure as socialists, we made a full contribution to the work and this working group that showed and sent a law to which, if I have the exact information, there is no amendment, which means it's very well written. Although he shows some of his shortcomings, we will certainly solve them, for no law has been passed that he could not be promoted. I will use very little time, first of all, to stress that this law is both an incentive and support and already formed enterprises that are over 1,200 in Serbia, if I am not mistaken. So 1,200 legal entities that operate according to the principles of the social economy. It is primarily about cooperatives, associations of citizens, foundations, companies for the employment of disabled people, business incubators and other less represented forms. That's why I stress the importance of such a social economy for, above all, so if you want, the overall economic and social development of society. So there would be a lot to talk about all the laws that are before us no, nothing new than what my colleagues used to say before me, but I'll really leave time, we went deep into the debate that even my colleagues after me would turn around and say what they were thinking. I'll just say that, all the laws that are in front of us and concerning today's search, but also the searches we're going to do tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, will certainly have the support of the SPS parliamentary group, first of all, because we belong to the category of socially responsible party that ultimately inherits the very fluids of the left that respect man and life from our work. As much as we try to be plagiarized today, somewhere in that area we seem to remain authentic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12140	Thank you. The word is by Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratović.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12141	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Today we are finalising the whole process of talks and negotiations that the leaders of previous periods and the Justice and Reconciliation Party took part in both formats of these talks. She made a big contribution. She participated in talks with EU representatives, as well as in talks by parties that did not want intermediaries. She initiated a lot of things that some of them were recognized and included in these bill proposals. Some of them have been told that they will consider themselves in a future solution and that we are satisfied with what has been achieved, and above all with this reduction of certified signatures for the parties of national minorities, as well as with the refusal of proposals that have been orally said that the parties of the national minority would have had to show that the parties are national minorities on the ballot, which we considered to be discrimination of their kind and that, on the proposal of our party's academic leader, Zukorlic Mufti Mufti's academicist, had been refuted and rejected. All other proposals have contributed to improving the overall conditions of the electoral process, and of course, have given us the opportunity to come out in the upcoming elections all of us who want to offer our political programmes and to seek citizens' support for them. What was important to us in this whole process is that by dialogue, we can always come up with concrete discussions that lead to a common goal, which is prosperity and general prosperity and good citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is something that is in the principles and principles of the Justice and Reconciliation Party. We simply believe that dialogue is the only thing that can end up curing all sides of this area and which can lead to the approximation of the opposite attitudes, or those within one nation, or those in the mixed environments, or in the whole of our region. With this in mind, we will support all these proposals, as has already been said, and try to participate in all the quality solutions in the future that will first and foremost make the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have as high-quality representatives as possible in their most significant representative home, which is here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as well as in all the congregations of urban, municipal communities where they are decided, on their fate and on the needs that they as citizens of this country have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12142	Thank you. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12143	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. Dear Minister, Mrs Obradovic, with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, today many of my colleagues have talked about what was the process and what we have dealt with in the past few months, and it is about improving electoral conditions, electoral laws and all of what SNS is, in fact, part of our portfolio, everything we are dealing with, and we want, of course, to speak primarily about economic freedoms, social freedoms, and those freedoms that we have after 2012, which we have managed to ensure, primarily for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that I speak primarily about economic freedoms, social freedoms, and those freedoms that concern respect for human and minority rights. That in this area we have produced great results, that both the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and our majority here in parliament in this process of dialogue have shown one great openness and showed, why not say, that it is much more open and much more democratic than many countries that have hareol so-called. Western-based developed democracies. And we show that, and there's a major difference in specific things, in the field, and that's what results show. That was also said by my distinguished colleague, Elvira Kovac, who spoke about the great results concerning the promotion of the rights of national minorities, their election rights, the right to represent and speaks simply of the policy of President Aleksandar Vukic, who, on many occasions and on many occasions, showed that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are equal to him and that everything that is his vision, all that is what he defines as the goal of the Republic of Serbia, which is a developed, modern, rich country, a country of rich people, a country that has the capacity, a country that has the opportunity to use its own resources to look at all people who live in this country, who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia regardless of which nation, whose religion they belong to. It is one of the key qualities of both SNS and President Vukic who has always been there to help, to support all those efforts in terms of strengthening stability in our country, strengthening better co-operation, co-operation between all citizens, regardless of their nationality, since we have in different parts of our country, and that is our country's wealth, and of course one large number of national minorities. When I talk about the Hungarian national minority, how advanced these relations are, how much this results, and the facts on the international agenda, I read today a statement from the State Secretary of the Foreign Ministry, Mr. Nemanje Starovic, who said we would open and share some diplomatic representations with Hungary. For now and for the beginning, it will be on the African continent and it speaks of how much Vucic's policy of co-operation, the Vucic's policy of hands can deliver results and can contribute to the quality and positioning of the geopolitical Republic of Serbia and, of course, the improvement of the lives of all our citizens living in the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to this dialogue, which my colleagues spoke of today, I cannot miss an opportunity without saying that as a MP, I must make a clear distinction between those political parties that requested and who asked for the presence of parties in the dialogue process and those who absolutely refused. I must say that I have much more respect for those who disagree with the SNS policy, who have a completely different ideological and political, economic platform for the Republic of Serbia, but who have been willing to talk to their partners, with the largest party in this country, the most numerous, and our coalition partners. To exchange our ideas, exchange our political platforms and agree on how and what conditions we will make for Serbia to have better and better quality conditions for the election race, so that it has better and better quality conditions for Serbia to be a country where such an ambience will be made to be a country that will be a country that will be a country of competition for political platforms, ideology, economic and social programmes. Not to be a state in which one part of the so-called, as most Serbian citizens call them, of the boycott opposition, will simply find new and new reasons why this country is not good today, why they are not good election conditions, why Aleksandar Vukic is not good enough and does not work well enough for Serbia. In fact, behind that is a completely different agenda. We could, unfortunately, see that in the past few months, unfortunately, on very explicit examples, I have to mention it, the attempts and preparation of the assassination of President Alexander Vukic. It is definitely a result supported by foreign power centres, domestic and international drug cartels, but also a tycoon here in Serbia. To them, Aleksandar Vukic is the only obstacle and the biggest obstacle, such as the personification of Serbia's development, Serbia that leads an independent and independent policy, to return Serbia back in the period 2000-2012, to return Serbia to the level of prelates and dominates run by some foreign centres of power, taking into account only their interests, not the interests of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. And all that's been going on in the past few months, and so on. green agendas, environmental movements, all those who are in the 7.5% of the economic growth of the Republic of Serbia, who has created and made the champion of the economy at the level of the whole of Europe, trying to bring us back to the level of the country that is facing bankruptcy, to the level of that state that has existed until 2012, with the complete absence of any geopolitical, foreign policy, but internal political and economic strategies for our country and for our citizens. It is clear that all those who have an interest and who do not think well of Serbia, both in the region and globally, have found allies here in the Republic of Serbia with whom they want to destroy all those ideas, the overall energy of Alexander Vukic to stability at the level of the entire region, in economic development, in the realisation of all those projects concerning integration, infrastructure, the opening of new jobs, new factories in this country, an initiative such as the "Open Balkans", which concerns the entire region, the better life of citizens in the whole region. They all got together and they all have their mentor abroad to take down Alexander Vukic. It is clear to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that it is a process that continues, that this brutal campaign that has been going on for several years is such that they are not too far from hitting and that in one brutal way they are jeopardising even his family, and his children, and his parents and his brother for the sake of only one goal, and this is the luxuriant goal of taking over power in Serbia without elections and coming back, to the possibility of managing the budget and managing the resources of this country, which are definitely large and which are interesting not only to them, but also to their mentors who, of course, logistic, materially, and in every way support them. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as much as they are, here, I have this research of the latest public opinion, here, look, Alexander Vukic, SNS, 55.6% of the support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, all of them are on some 3-4% of the support individually, however much the people see it, however much the citizens of the Republic of Serbia see it, I warn citizens of that they are not easy and that they are not harmless those opponents who have hundreds of millions of dollars. Not harmless are those opponents who have come to this money in a very likely, illegal way, through the use of resources, in fact, most of this country, the Republic of Serbia, to say publicly, who have robbed the country's resources for 12 years of their government, to buy with this same money instead of investing here in Serbia, to invest in production, to invest in factories, in new jobs, such as Solak invest in the United Kingdom. I guess they don't have enough foreign direct investment, they don't have enough wealth, they just need one Solak to invest and buy football clubs and spend money that's been made and exported from the Republic of Serbia to the United Kingdom. They're very serious opponents. We, as a very serious state-run party, will be well prepared, we will tell our citizens and we have something to talk about what we have done, what the results, how many paths we have made, how many Alexander Vukić factories have opened, how many jobs are open. We will talk about today, two years after the severe pandemic, the unemployment rate in Serbia is 10%, compared to 26% in 2012. We will lead a positive campaign, but constantly warning our people and our citizens of what kind of opponents we are facing and what challenges Alexander Vukic, as president of the Republic of Serbia, will face and face in the coming period. I guess it's not enough that he fights every day for vital national interests and defense of our national interests in Kosovo and Metohija. It is not enough that it is fighting for the Republika Srpska and for the establishment of regional stability. It is not enough, but unfortunately, it is also necessary that we have people on the home side of a political, economic, economic stage that works for others, working for their own pockets of Jell-O, and that should be said openly, in a violent way to put Alexander Vukic away. All this dialogue and all their performance and demands on better electoral conditions, greater rights, of course it's one charade, of course it's one kind of grotesque, but I'll agree here with my colleague Djukanovic, we believe in ourselves, we believe in President Vukic, we believe in the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that they will know on April 3rd and that they know today who is thinking about Serbia and what Serbia will look like in 2025 and 2030, what we have a clear political, economic and social programme, what Serbia will look like in 30 and 40 years. Not what it's going to look like on April 4th, but what it's going to look like in a few decades. How are we going to be here more, how are we going to strengthen our army, how are we going to protect our national interests, with of course one dynamic economic development. Of course, thanks to Vucic's success, he has become the enemy of many here in the region and many who would like to use Serbia's resources, as they have done in the past few decades. I'm going to end with that, and I have to point that out, because I think, here's our chief of Parliament club, Mr. Martinovic, is long, long in politics and long here in parliament, and I think this is a kind of precedent. I've seen these so-called. I can tell you that I was personally disappointed and injured as a citizen of this country. I can only imagine how people living in the interior and living on the edges of Belgrade lived on my Chukaricans, where my grandparents were born, my father in Radnica Street above Ade Gigania, felt that the people of Marinkova Bara, Borce and those parts of Belgrade were born when they were publicly on TV shows, as I imagine their main political programme, mocked their mayoral candidate, Vladeta Jankovic and their great, as they would say the supporter, independent intellectual, director, Belgrade elite, people from the circle of the two, Goran Markovic. Maybe they made it easier for us in one way because they actually showed up in a few sentences, in a few ways how to tell the expressions of their faces and those jokes they made on that show between them, in fact, the difference between us and them. The difference between Vladeta Jankovic, Ponos and the difference between Alexander Vukic, who did not find it difficult to go to Sjenica, to go to Priboj, to go to eastern Serbia, to go whenever possible and time- and other conditions to talk to the most ordinary citizens, farmers, to all those whom he and we as SNS view as equal citizens in the Republic of Serbia with us MPs, to those who live in Vrakar, to those who live in the Old City or in any city, municipality, village in the Republic of Serbia. I am consterned by the fact that today this kind of kind of, as they say, elites that come from a circle of two, can behave publicly in such a discriminatory way, discriminatoryly, making fun of whole, hundreds and thousands of people, discriminating them just because they live three, four, five, seven, ten kilometers from Therazi. And imagine what they think of the citizens of Surdulica, Vlad's Han, Vranya, Presevo? What do they think of them? How despised these people just because they're not really their caste. They'd probably introduce a caste system into this country. And that's how they acted from 2000 to 2012. They were the ultimate caste. They were the ones who put state money in their pockets, they were the ones who had the monopoly and the right to deal with business, to run the state, to run state-owned enterprises, to run state-owned institutions, and who is now the main target, the one who cut all these channels and told them – enough. Serbia will no longer be a handful of zombies that every scumbag and bastard can pick up, but will be a country of responsible people, a host country and people who intend to, but also politicians who want good to this country, who are top patriots and who want to work daily on modernising this country. Serbia deserves it. Thank you for that, Alexander Wolf. They will have our strong support in the coming period for everything they do, for our country, and we will not let such, not elites, but soar over and ever be in a position to lead this country and these citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12144	Thank you. The word is Natasa Mihailović Vacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12145	Thank you, Chairman. We are talking today about amendments and amendments to the electoral laws resulting from an inter-party dialogue that has often not been a bit easy, but it is important in the end that we have succeeded and that we have taken an extremely important step towards the long-term improvement of the electoral process. Since its establishment, the SDPS has been committed to the ideals of democracy, pluralist and open civil society. In line with our political principles, we SDPS have entered the process of inter-party dialogue, open to any proposal that will improve the electoral and process and the integrity of the electoral process and that will restore citizens' confidence in the electoral system, in elections and improve it. So their voice is heard clearly, without fear and doubt of the legitimacy of the election result. The improvement of the electoral process and democratic culture is a job that never ends, it must be continuous and consistent, so we see this process of inter-party dialogue as a start, a good start, and we hope that, at the end of these elections, the desire to improve the electoral process will survive and that all participants will show responsibility, good will and flexibility in order to continue the work that we have started with respect and respect for political indifferences and, of course, to find a common denominator in the highest interest of the citizens who have chosen us. Of course, this does not mean that the results of the negotiations and the process themselves will always be satisfied, in democracy and democratic society, there have always been those who, for various legitimate and illegal reasons, complain about the rules of the game. However, if we are all fair to ourselves first and if we look at a wider picture beyond what only our proposed changes are certainly improving the electoral process and the electoral conditions, because almost all parties, including those who boycotted the past elections, have announced participation in them and in this the openness of the ruling coalition and the will to accept all that were the demands of opposition parties. The seriousness of our intention in all rounds of inter-party dialogue is also reflected in our active and constructive approach. Our proposals focused not only on short-term but also on long-term measures, root reforms in order to improve the electoral system and to allow citizens to vote for MPs by name and last name, which would certainly bring new dynamics, not only in how citizens see politics, but also certainly affect citizens' activities, bringing the decision-making process closer, by voting for those they know, whose work results cost and respect. This would certainly contribute to and introduce a new dynamic and the very work of political parties. Unfortunately, the focus of these negotiations was short-term solutions to the problems that concerned primarily the participation of opposition parties in the elections and whose main focus was on media representation, on facilitating campaign financing and control of the election process. With our partners from the parliamentary majority, we have shown from the very beginning openness and will, responsibility and flexibility, to meet and those who have created electoral conditions in the past and who are largely existing and who, at one point, have lost power and have lost by the rules they have made themselves. It is a fact and it would be very unfair and unfair to speak in public differently, and we have just the results, as I have already said, of a process that was very often not easy. In line with the proposals and results of the inter-party dialogue on both lines, 16 measures have been put in place to amend and supplement the laws we are talking about today, amend and supplement the draft law on the election of presidents, the election of MPs, local elections, the financing of political organisations and the prevention of corruption. The most significant changes that do not have a precedent are certainly the expansion of the permanent composition of RIK and enabling those political parties not only to enter parliament, but they did not participate in the elections, there is also a special importance of changing the way of funding that allows for increasing public funding of the 15% campaign to all participants of the election process, at the very beginning of the campaign. The rest of the funds, therefore, 65% instead of the 80% so far, will be allocated to voters who cross the censorship and enter parliament. The amendments and additions to the laws we are discussing today have improved the procedures for counting votes, controlling results, filling out records on the work of election committees, publishing them, etc., which was also one of the key requirements of the participants in the dialogue. The crown of all this was also discussed by counterpart Bačevac and co-worker Kovac, certainly a reduction in the number of necessary signatures for national minorities lists from 10,000 to 5,000 signatures, as well as changes that will prevent the appearance of fake minority lists in the elections that defuse the electoral system, the achieved freedoms and rights of national minorities and attempts by the state and society to protect the legitimate rights and interests of national minorities through parliament. What certainly belongs to those 16 points, which we have already adopted through amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Media, is the establishment of a temporary Supervisory Body for Media, whose responsibility is to monitor and report to the public on the application of the Public Service Regulations and follow-up of recommendations for private broadcasters with national frequency. Until now, it has held 11 sessions, including a constitutive one, we hope that a final binding instruction and a regulation for the work of public services during the election campaign will be adopted soon, these texts were agreed at the January 12th session, on 14th, REM was sent to further action and I believe that this process will be completed very soon. I hope that public broadcasters will securely and responsibly apply agreed instructions and recommendations, that they will enable accurate, objective, timely, balanced and balanced reporting to the participants of the elections and thus fulfil their duty and responsibility to professional standards, as well as to citizens who are just relying on the media to make an informed decision on whom they will give and show their trust on the day of the election. In the last meeting with the European Parliamentarians, a few days ago, our message was clear that the upcoming elections were of great importance for further development and improvement of society and state, and that they would be implemented in a fair and democratic manner, according to these amendments of the law. We believe in the SDPS that by adopting these amendments to the law, it will be so, and that they will all be applied in a short period of time before the elections, which was the largest, I must say, unfounded and unnecessary, anxious and European parliamentarians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12146	Thank you. The word is Zagorka Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12147	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens, as we have already pointed out, our parliamentary group will support legal proposals with this debate in the voting day. As for the set of electoral laws, we believe that the newspaper that these laws bring is favourable to the subjects participating in the electoral process, as well as that all legal solutions bear improvements, above all, in the organisation and transparency of the elections itself, and what is also significant, which is the maximum respect of European recommendations, more specifically relevant bodies dealing with this. I would, however, refer to the Social Entrepreneurship Act, which today was less said, but this law is indeed proof of the continuity and lasting determination of the Serbian state to bring useful and above all responsible public policies. It is known to Serbian citizens that JS, as a party to a recognizable social programme that has its clear applications in both Jagodina and other cities across Serbia, makes concrete decisions at the local level concerning improving living conditions for the most vulnerable categories of the population. The adoption of this law aims to help precisely the most economically vulnerable groups, and we think that this law will be of particular importance to local self-government, as it will provide a firm framework for future social entrepreneurship settings, as well as for its development. This law defines the concepts relating to social entrepreneurship, the important social role of social entrepreneurship, the particulars that determine business, as well as the development programme itself, as well. The law will make it easier for donors to identify themselves those entities that operate on the principles of social entrepreneurship and, of course, more control of abuses, which will be achieved through a special council that will form the Serbian government. The role in the development and promotion of social entrepreneurship is also the social inclusion and poverty reduction team of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, various civil organisations, networks, as well as individuals helping and promoting sustainable development and the social economy. If we look at world figures in the social entrepreneurship sector, there are over 40 million people working in the world today, and there are as many as 200 million people volunteering. About 13 million people work in the EU in the social entrepreneurship sector. In developed world and European countries, social entrepreneurship participates significantly in the overall gross social product. Indeed, Western countries have a long tradition and continuity of social entrepreneurship, and as far as Serbia is concerned, despite the lack of a concrete legal framework, it has been present for decades. By passing, and we hope and expect, first of all, the adequate application of this law, this area will be regulated, because the law itself states that our legal system has so far not recognised social entrepreneurship as a category of general importance. What I want to add is that research shows that the existing social entrepreneurship sector in Serbia is aimed at social goals, that it has an important social mission and this law will be a firm orientation for those who are already in this area, so perhaps some future participants in social entrepreneurship. Only the adoption of the law should be the beginning of a larger and more extensive state support to this area, because through capacity building, greater social co-operation, constant monitoring of activities and the drive to reduce possible abuse, we will get the desired effects, and these are visibility and employment and protection of the economically most vulnerable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12148	Thank you. The last person on the list registered for the word is Radovan Aregina.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12149	Dear Chairman, I would like to thank my fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored Minister and Associates, today we are talking about sets of very important laws, which mark the further democratisation of our society and confirm the responsibility of the state in several important areas of our lives. First, we have a set of more than six laws to improve the electoral process in Serbia and a serious democratic step. As a result of the inter-party dialogue, it has been repeatedly highlighted in the presentations of colleagues and fellow MPs today. I would take the opportunity, sincerely to thank and congratulate President Dacic for his great patience and commitment to which he organised the inter-party dialogue and gathered representatives of the opposition for one table, and in two tracks, which came out to meet the entire opposition and, according to my assessment, both of them showed that it was possible to sit at the table and not hate their political opponents, whether they were for the EU or not, which is immeasurable... . President of the Ivica Dacic National Assembly and this National Assembly. If so, I can say that the laws we are discussing today are the product of this one-year inter-party dialogue led by the National Assembly where all the representatives of the opposition had the opportunity to declare their views, give proposals for better legal solutions, above all I mean the electoral laws that the opposition generally has objections to. We know that the current electoral laws were passed at a time when part of today's opposition exercised power. So all the objections that were made to election laws are objections to their own laws. It's kind of like a new political autophagia of the law. Autophagia is a cleansing of the organism from harmful substances, and in this case it is a proposal to cleanse the laws that they themselves have brought at that time. We also remember how in 2000 they insisted on changes in the electoral system then Serbia became an electoral unit, and the mandates belonged to political parties, not MPs, because they were not voted for the name, but for the party or coalition that submitted the list. That's the DOS I changed in 2003 when socialists were kidnapped. Unfortunately, here we live politically today, and DOS is gone. I hope his heirs won't be, too. I'm going to quote one of our friends who says builders need knowledge, work and patience, and destroyers only force. That's the force they showed on October 5th, but it would appear they're coming to power today across the street. This part of the projected opposition is not in line with any and no electoral law, so they would certainly say today that the streets and sponsors are coming to power from the street. We have followed all previous months of inter-party debate, but also the political behaviour of certain oppositions who are now open to selecting funds to show the people that they are rapper democracies, that they carry ideas of a better life, except that no one has seen these ideas or programs except their verified model of coming to power, to power from the street. When it comes to this set of laws, I will refer to the Bill on Local Elections since I come from the locals and I am an active actor and participant for the last 20 years, and as president of the Assembly, both as a boardman for 16, 17 years and as president of the municipality, etc., so it is kind of closer to me, it simply gives me a clagort to say some things that may not be covered here, and simply, that opposition has not put them on the agenda, and it has brought them to her, because they are not interested in locals like Kladov and other small municipalities, they are interested in Belgrade, they are interested in the President of the Republic and Presidential Elections. In parliament as it is, and this is only showing through proposals in local law, the adoption of today's law of their participation, as far as they are not interested in me saying small municipalities that are the world of Serbia. Two other electoral laws bear changes that will bring the electoral process closer to the citizens and enable them to make their electoral right much easier and this law is the product of inter-party dialogue and alignment with the solutions provided for by the Law on the Election of Presidents and the Law on the Selection of People's MPs. What is essential is that all political actors, including the entire opposition, are made easier to participate in the elections. The procedures have been precisely defined and the laws have established such a relief that, after this opposition, if it does not go to the elections or does not pass the censorship, only hope remains that some decree without a choice will come to power. What is new in the Law on Local Elections, which is contained in the other two laws, is that all electoral procedures, procedures, conditions, which were already the subject of acts brought by electoral authorities, i.e. RIK and local electoral commissions, have now been carefully arranged. This increased the legal certainty of the electoral process. Then, the voter is proposed to support several electoral lists with his signature, which so far has not been possible. I personally hope that this solution will be changed because it devises the rule that each voter has only one vote. Today, by proposing to adopt that we who were to be in Kladovo have 840 collected signatures of 20,000 voters, of some 11, 12 thousand people coming out which is huge, and Belgrade 3,000, today we will have 300 under the new law and now in those 300 we can do for two, three lists, then it really doesn't make sense, really the law wouldn't look like and don't go to anyone in favor. And don't let anyone go, it doesn't go to democracy in favor, if we're going to talk about democracy in the right true, experienced way. I would also like to commend the changes relating to the possibility of confirming the signature. This is important to us from the bar. In addition to the notaries, it can also be verified in the municipal administration, both in the court or in the judicial units. It's very important because in Kladov or Negotina, one is a notary, it's scheduled. Now, here you go, you also have the municipal administration, there's a judicial unit. Very easy, very fast and with fewer signatures. When I mention Kladovo, don't mind, as I see Kladovov and Negotin, I see Bolec, I also see many other cities throughout Serbia, small municipalities, smaller municipalities than large cities, which are very important in the electoral process, and that's the essence. This is something to say goodbye to. This is what every citizen should say hello. I think they're discussing, discussing and wanting to be those who didn't participate in the electoral process and who think about it this way and all of the suggestions that are on the sidelines that we're following in the media, we're following at various press conferences, they're devising a really electoral process. Then don't make a choice. Then let the goat congregation be established. For example, in Article 43, and this is what I want to say to citizens who are following, 200 signatures are to be collected today in municipalities of up to 20,000 people, 20,000 with 20,000 voters. Here, specifically Kladovo now still belongs to a group of 20,000 to 30,000, just before I pointed out, there needs 300 signatures. So it's very significant, much easier. In previous elections, we collected 840, 30 certified signatures per councilman. The municipalities that had more councilors, and the same sizes gathered 1,000,1200, came out two, three lists. It's just hard to collect signatures. This now allows and allows anyone who believes that his policy should present to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the local self-government has the opportunity to present it in the best possible way, which are the elections, election campaigns, ideas, proposals and staff they will put in place, which people will represent, who will represent these people in this assembly. The law also allows a single committee group to have most members... It is also a good solution that if only one committee group is formed in the assembly, it may have up to half the members, or deputies, and the other members and deputies will be proposed by the head of the municipal administration in the line of employees who know the election process. This makes it impossible to block the work of the electoral authorities. In general, the new Law on Local Elections offers effective solutions and allows all interested political parties, coalitions and groups of citizens to participate in the elections under the same conditions. I'd just like to add, for example, Article 41 for local self-government, which they now have... Under the new law, they will have elections on April 3rd, and that is, to remember, there are now 40% of the softer sex I will call, our friends, friends, etc., 40%, but in the first five, the other five, so they know that those who form the lists about it should watch out and that is a major shift and I hope that the amendment that my colleague, Snezana Paunović, is today... Under the agreement, it was delayed, that in some future the National Assembly would vote to be 50% and I sincerely hope so. But I am interested in one thing with our opposition friends who have not even looked at Article 74, and here we should imagine ourselves, and he says: “The councilman whose term of office has ceased after he has been elected mayor, deputy mayor and member of the city council, i.e. the president of the municipality, vice president and member of the municipal council, may, at the end of that function, request that his term be re-assigned to him in the same assembly if there is a vacant parliamentary seat belonging to his election list. ” Excuse me, please, when we elect the president of the municipality, the vice president of the municipality, the members of the council, and the president of the municipality and the vice president of the municipality are elected from the ranks of the council, which means that someone on his list still happens by accident... etc. And anything else, if the president of the municipality were to be relocated or deputy president of the municipality or member of the council, then he should... The opposition was supposed to propose if she didn't just think of herself and how she was going to take power. They were supposed to propose that, and that's their... This is part of the law that has been passed since the previous one, that one who then entered the post of the president of the municipality could return the term of office and that the president of the municipality returned to the assembly, because he had created and conducted politics and was the bearer and thus, by his inability to return to the Assembly, a policy of elections for which the citizens voted is being violated. Since I've been warned, I wanted to finish, we'll vote for these laws. I'm sorry that I didn't say what I was going to say about the tenants, too. That's a good suggestion, a good trip. I thank you, Minister. It is also Branko Ruzic in the previous term... That's what you've been working on together. That's good to pay evenly. I want all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia to participate consciously and responsibly in the upcoming elections and to choose the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12150	Thank you. Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, before the conclusion of the joint principled search, do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want to hear the word? (Milia Miletic: Yes. The time of your parliamentary group is two minutes, Mr. Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12151	I thank Dr. Orlic. Dear fellow MPs, the Honorable Minister, citizens of Serbia, I would like as deputy head of Parliament's Justice and Reconciliation Party - the United Peasant Party to support the proposals of all these laws because these laws give you the opportunity to provide something for someone who once thought he could have it, but the most important thing of all this is that our citizens of the Republic of Serbia, all people living in the country and from the village know who worked, who has not worked and who has worked since 2001/2002, and until 2012. Therefore, we have now accepted all the positive things that are at the expense of this current majority, but this is a sign that we want only good for all of our citizens, to go to elections, to support the best and that the state of Serbia continues to work even faster and harder than the previous period was. I will also thank you from this place and say a few things specifically about our hunters who will now have the opportunity, which is Mr. Ristic's proposal, otherwise in the previous period the government of the Republic of Serbia, or the competent interior ministry, had a working group together with the Hunting Union of Serbia, with Bratislav Cirkovic, who is president of the hunting union of Serbia, where very high-quality proposals were put under the law, but the law will likely be in some subsequent term, i.e. after parliamentary elections. This is a good sign that those hunters of ours who have failed to reregister their weapons to do so for the next two years. I'll vote for it, but once again I call on all those people who haven't done it so far, because it really doesn't make sense to those people who did re-register the weapons, who did it in time, and some of them, who have taken medical assurance now, that belief to them can fail and simply need to give funds for a new one. Once again, distinguished Dr. Orlic, the citizens of Serbia, I invite you all to vote for the best when the time comes for elections, and this is the government of the Republic of Serbia and Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, who have worked best so far. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-02-0.u12152	Thank you and everyone who participated in today's debate. I am concluding a joint principled search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 1 to 11 of the agenda. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 16th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 76 Members of the Parliament are present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the e-system's parliamentary units. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 119 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present, so there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The first word has a National MP, Milija Miletic.
