ParlaMint-RS_2022-05-31-0.u12442	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I am opening the 11th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. The special session was convened on the basis of Article 114(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was found to be sworn in by the President of the Republic in front of the National Assembly when it came to office. I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend the 11th special session of the National Assembly, in addition to the MPs and elected President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic: His Holiness of the Patriarch of Serbian Mr. Porphyria, former President of the Republic of Serbia and Yugoslavia, Serbian member of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, President of Republika Srpska, President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia. The President of the Constitutional Court, President of the Supreme Cassation Court, representatives of courts and prosecutors, governor of the National Bank of Serbia, representatives of traditional churches and religious communities, president of the Belgrade City Assembly and mayors of Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac, representatives of the Serbian Army, independent regulatory bodies, Mother of Serbia, as well as rectors of the university whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, president and secretary of the Republican Election Commission. Also present-day session is attended by foreign diplomatic and consular representatives and international accredited organisations in the Republic of Serbia. Allow me to, on behalf of the National Assembly and on my behalf, welcome the esteemed guests. Dear People's MPs, you have received a report from the Republic Election Commission on the elections held for the President of the Republic. The Republic Election Commission, held on 9 May 2022, brought a total report on the results of the elections for the President of the Republic, which was published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". 55/22. Based on the results of the elections, held on 3 April 2022 and repeated at 35 polling stations on 16 April 2022, the Republic Election Commission found that, in accordance with Article 21. The law on the election of the President of the Republic, as President of the Republic, elected Aleksandar Vukic, who received two million two hundred twenty-four thousand nine hundred (2.224.914) vote by voters, which makes up 58.59 per cent, or most of the voters who voted. In this way, the conditions for the President of the Republic, acting pursuant to Article 114(3), were met. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia takes an oath before the National Assembly. According to Article 262. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic, takes an oath before the National Assembly to read the Constitution of the established text of the oath. After the oath has been made, the President of the Republic shall sign the text of the oath. I ask Mr. Alexander Vukic, elected President of the Republic, to take an oath before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. (The President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic reads the text of the oath set out in Article 114(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. )
ParlaMint-RS_2022-05-31-0.u12443	"I vow to dedicate all my strengths to the preservation of sovereignty and the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia, including Kosovo and Metohia as its constituent part, as well as the achievement of human and minority rights and freedoms, respect and defence of the constitution and laws, the preservation of peace and prosperity of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that I will knowingly and responsibly fulfil all my duties. "So help me God.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-05-31-0.u12444	I invite you to listen to the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia. (Intonation of the Anthem “God of Justice”. ) Dear People's MPs, allow me to, on behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and on my behalf, congratulate Mr. Aleksandr Vukic on the post of President of the Republic of Serbia and to wish him success in this mandate for the benefit of the citizens of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian people in general. Mr. President, I invite you to address the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-05-31-0.u12445	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Holiness, the Honorable President, the Honorable Members of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Honorable Presidents of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Representatives of the Religious Communities, dear friends, the Honorable Presidents of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, your Excellency, the President of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Cassation Court, the Prime Minister of the Government, the members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the District Assembly of the Republic of Vojvodina, the Prime Minister of the Ukrainian Government of the Republic of Vojvodina, the ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, there is no greater honor, no greater commitment, no greater pride than the fact that you love your country, nor more beautiful duty than to represent it. All that, and obligation, and duty, and honor, and pride, I got from the citizens in the election. They are the expression of the will of the convincing majority that has re-indebted me and most of you to do our job not always the way that even the majority wants us to do it, but to do everything that is in Serbia's best interest. I want to be the president of everyone and president for everything, to be the first to be the first to do what's right, to do more, not to ask for anything for myself, but to ask for everything, absolutely everything for our Serbia. The great Confucius said that a compromise can be made with everything except ideals, and that is what I intend to follow, and to me is the ideal of Serbia and the well-being of its citizens. This also sets out the priorities of my second term, those that I think have been public and clear before taking the oath, which are: peace, stability, independence in decision-making, Serbia's freedom, security, health, Europe, work, work and work. Serbia is and will be, to paraphrase Mark Aureli, the Emperor, the philosopher, exactly what we do and only what we make of her. It is the product of our thoughts, our dreams and our works, our ideal, our goal, our consciousness, our knowledge of where we are both geographical and historical and great attention never to be confused, as so many times in history has happened to us, history and reality, geography and reality, free desires and reality. Today I have the honour, but also the immeasurable obligation to address you as president whose second term begins in the time of breaking modern history. There is no weightier, but no higher duty than the one I take for the second time today. There is no goal that is more demanding, but also more honorable than the goal of Serbia continuing its path, unique in the future as it has long earned its victims and denials. I take up the presidency in times when the premise in almost all the world has basically become that impertinence and insolence are an act of courage, and calmness and patience are a reflection of fear. We live in times when everyone speaks loudly and few listeners and hears more rarely. The voices of reason are getting quieter, and the vision of the future of all mankind is getting more and more foggy and distant. Today perhaps more than ever the whole world is eager for truth and justice. The same justice that is woven in the first words of our beautiful national anthem and which still stands as an imperative without which there is no progress for a man of dignity or the whole world. For such truth and for such justice I will always fight, for there is no harder, but no more honorable path than that. The world may never be the same again, but I point to the fact that at least we will try to remain strong, confident, and unwavering in our principles, that as a country we will continue to work for the greater good while we courageously grab ahead despite all the troubles we have done so far. There is therefore no big enough word for our Serbia, which has always stood at the crossroads of different civilizations, religions and cultures, which is enriched in the best way that encourages us to keep this legacy even stronger, stronger and more determined today than ever before. Also, we have always crossed paths of other people's interests and ambitions, conquests and withdrawals, as well as our victories and defeats that left deep scars in Serbia's entire existence. Many came to us with no respect or consideration, leaving with a hidden or open admiration for our small and so great people and our small and so proud Serbia. Just like this Miroslav Gospel, our country had a strange and difficult historical path. The generations of Serbia have crawled through the most difficult times over the long centuries, often alone, but always upright. It is these generations that have shown through history the incredible human, royal, artistic, military, moral, and spiritual heights of this unbreakable, free, sometimes defiant spirit into all the present and future generations of our people. To make things concrete, the world in front of our eyes changes dramatically on a daily basis, never more and never faster. The attack on Ukraine is a turning point in international relations. On the one hand, Russia wanted to end the domination, according to Western and hard and soft powers, preventing further expansion of NATO, the great China does not want the status quo, i.e. The untouchableness of Western forces and the inconsistency of all others, while on the other hand the West wants to preserve its own power in the world, while also calling for violations of international public law, both by Russia and by their other opponents, such as the People's Republic of China. It is true that the attack on Ukraine has affected international public law, but it is also true that it has happened dozens of times in the modern world, and that the key protagonists and today's great fighters for respect of international public law standards have been unorthodox and Western forces. After all, we here in Serbia can confirm it in the best possible way. Our country was attacked in 1999 without a United Nations Security Council decision without our country occupied each other before that. Our country was kidnapped after that. Despite the existence of Resolution 1244 and the existence in the legal order of that resolution, they continue to rob us of part of our territory by claiming that they are right, and if we happen to say that we think otherwise, we are no longer for the future, we are not democratic enough, we do not understand the present moment, we are dealing with too much the past. If someone else did, he would immediately be someone who brought down the international legal order, who brought down all the institutions and who brought down peace in the world. I am proud of Serbia today, which is acting in accordance with the principles of international public law, which can condemn violations of international public law, unequivocally and clearly. But I'm proud of Serbia where there's neither anti-Western nor rustic behavior. We welcome Dostoyevsky and Shakespeare and Gete and Hemingway. It is something that Serbia can be proud of, even if it is one of the few countries in the modern world. I said all of this not because it is possible to extract pragmatic requirements of action, but that even as President of the Republic, just as all other citizens of Serbia allow themselves, I save my soul and say what is in my heart and that you don't think that what you all know I don't know. I know, I don't know much better than anyone else. I don't often see it, and I feel better than everyone else. But that doesn't solve our problem and none of the problems in the future will solve it. The country's leadership policy is not a policy of desire, it's a policy of a possible, a policy of reality. I talked to one of the biggest European leaders today, seven hours we talked and I guess the man wanted to listen to me and I felt the need to tell everything that was on my soul, to say everything that we Serbs feel when we see what they did to us on Kosovo and Metohija and on all other issues in the Balkans. He listened to me carefully that great leader, much smarter than me, with much more knowledge, a great country leads, and about three o'clock in the morning he told me – come on, now Alexander, let's cut this off. I said - I'm listening, my dear friend. He said -- I'm not in agreement with you at all, but to say that you're 80, maybe even 90% of the things you said were right. So what do we do now? I said, I listen to you, he said -- you run one country, you're president of the country, you're smart enough to know that regardless of the injustices in the world there are many things that won't change. You can't change my country's mind, we can repent later, but we'll never admit it, because the big ones don't admit it. For us, tears of regret and error do not exist, they are meant for you, less countries. It remains to see what it is that you can do to save your country in the future. It remains to see what it is you can do, to ensure the future for young generations in your country, and what it is that you can accept as reality and what it is that we can do together. I first heard from someone, from the Western leaders, that he said somewhere, not directly, but somewhere he said, okay, we're not always the happiest with everything we've done in the past, but you have to make up with it. At least we got something, at least some kind of personal satisfaction I got that night that, of course, meant nothing to our country. But that great leader is right when he said that we must be dedicated to the future, that we must worry about the future, that we should watch what we do with our children, because they are not obliged to pay neither the debts of our generation nor the debts left to us by our parents or our great-grandfathers or anyone else. They need to be left as clean as possible for the future, so they don't have to think about who they're going to fight tomorrow and what kind of instability and problems they're going to face. This is exactly what I want to say that I am looking forward to almost forming a new parliament, I hope that all the electoral actions will be over soon, and I do not even want to answer those who have made senseless claims that I have chosen before which parliament I will take an oath, because I became president on 31 May and this was the only day that I could take an oath. What to do, because whatever you do and whatever you do, it will never be good enough or bad enough for everyone to be satisfied. The formation of a new government is, I would say, crucially, and given the situation in which we are, the difficult situation, we all have to think about it together today, and I can't do it alone, although as someone who has received great support from the people, it is necessary for the government to do it, and it will certainly be done by one who has full legitimacy, not in the technical mandate, stronger and stronger. We must deal with new sanctions and new miracles in which we can be damaged again, so we will have to ask our European partners to help us on this issue, but that is already a question for them. In line with this, I expect the new Serbian government to be formed by the end of July, and I will be happy to go into intensive consultations with representatives of all political parties in the country that entered the national parliament as soon as a new assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is formed. I want to say that I am convinced that the new government will accept some of the advice and my requests. I believe that the mandater will decide that the government will be minorityly inclusive, to include as many members of not only the Serb people as possible, but also to have Hungarians and Bosniaks in that government as possible, to be in it and Croats, and Roma, and representatives of all nationalities who want good for this country and who have only one country or one country, and that is Serbia that they love endlessly just as we love it and who plan to live here, and they and their children, just as we plan to. I just want to thank all the representatives, I don't even like to say it in a formal – legal sense, I know it's said, to representatives of national minorities, but I would say to people, wonderful citizens, people who don't belong to the majority people, who have always been with Serbia, helped Serbia and shared both good and evil with us, and together with us solved all the troubles and problems that we've been faced with. What I expect from the next government, but what I will do and as President of the Republic in particular, is one - our European path. Now, if you'll excuse me, since I know I'm not gonna get a round of applause for that, that's exactly why I'm gonna devote the most space to it. I like to be stubborn sometimes, to be sassy, sometimes cochoperous, but not because of myself or because of any points I need, on the contrary, that's why the points are lost, but because I think I'm doing a good thing for Serbia. When we talk about Europe, it serves us as a pickpocket, it has become a mandatory part of our casual reference, but also something that we can easily criticise every day, attack, but once again, when the afternoon or evening comes, we think about how much we will support and help find tomorrow. No matter how right we say they're not always fair to us, and I don't think they're always fair to us, especially when it comes to political demands, we're not fair to them either. It is easy and nice to take taxpayers' money from the European Union and we feel very good if we don't even say thank you. It's easy, it's nice to accept what suits us, what we like, but it's not easy and it's nice to hear the words of criticism when we don't like something. The European Union must not be a syntagmist, it must not be something that has entered the dictionary just like that, but must be our definition. Exactly because of trade exchange, investment, but also because we want to belong to this kind of society, we will have to do a lot in the area of the rule of law, further democratisation of our society, our media freedoms and everything else. Of course they exaggerate when they say they can't hear a different opinion, of course they sometimes use it for their political needs, but it's also true that we can always do better, and not because of them, but because of us. Accordingly, we come to what I have sworn today, at the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, we come to a key political issue for us, which is the issue of Kosovo and Metohija. Related to the Ukrainian crisis, the issue of Kosovo and Metohija will be even more prominent and even harder for us to resolve. Whatever they say to you on any side, whatever anyone from the West, Kosovo and Metohija is going to be a bigger and more important topic precisely because of what President Putin was recently talking about. They will tell you that this is not the case and that Kosovo is nothing like any other examples in the world, it will repeat it in a senseless manner. The more they repeat it to you, the more it bothers them. That's exactly why we're gonna face each other. I apologize for telling the truth to everyone, and to you in the O.R., and to those who listen to this. Do you really think I'm that naive when you tell me ten times that it's none of your business and that it's no problem for you, that you try to sell it to me, a political veteran? I can see how much that hurts. You can imagine how much it hurts us, how much this country hurts, how much it hurts a Serbian man, how much it hurts everyone in this country. Every day we have to listen to pressures to satisfy your interests and not for a second thinking about our interests. We have a problem here that we have absolutely no one to talk to in order to come to a compromise, in order to seek compromise. Also, I know no one wants to hear this in Serbia, but we have to look for a compromise. We have to fight for compromise. We must protect our people in Kosovo and Metohija. We must worry about the lives of our people, our elders, their children and their children who continue to live in Kosovo and Metohija, who continue to love the Serbian flag, who continue to speak Serbian. That's why we have to look for a compromise. Today, when we talk about it, even today they do not execute the judgments of their organs to return to the High Decades what belongs to the High Decades, and no one is concerned about it much. For the first time, we had a statement by Quinta who sincerely criticised the position of Albanian officials in Pristina not to allow Serbs to plead in the presidential and parliament elections of Serbia. That took half a day. The day after, they could continue to do everything they did, because they will always have their support and no one should have any illusions about it. Then we come up with questions that have to do with it. How much understanding can we come across and how rationally accepting our arguments can we come across when we say -- well, wait, you expect us to be equally strong against the Russian Federation? Now, leave aside all of our traditional relationships, to put aside and everything else, which we don't have problems with supplying gas, security of supply, which we have good relations, so leave it aside, so as you think, people, yes, on the one hand, every day you talk about territorial integrity, the protection of territorial integrity as the top principle of international public law, and then tell us – you Serbs, forget respect for the top principle of international public law, but see that it gets worse than we do, and because of everything in the world, you refer to the Russian Federation, and there's no problem that they won't be for you in the Security Council of the United Nations on your territorial integrity, because it's good for you to forget your territorial integrity. I only ask the representatives of those countries to be at least a little fair to Serbia, so to say, we understand your difficult position, but, no problem, we make you do it. It's a language we can understand. It does not mean that we will listen, but it is a language that is much less hypocritical than the one that tells us that it is justice, that it is fair and that it is fair, because if it were just, and it is justice, you would not easily destroy territorial integrity and destroy Serbia's territorial integrity as you did. I know, fortunately or sadly, what it is that people like and I come back again and again, and I say this to save the soul, that you know that I have it, because I know that many people think that I don't have it and that I know these things better than most people, that I don't say by accident of all, but tomorrow we have to have enough fuel, we have to have enough food, we have to have new hospitals, we have to have new factories and we have to keep the best relations with our Western partners and be tough, tough and strong on the European path. The new government must be formed quickly and because it is necessary to deal urgently with the coming winter and supply of Serbia, above all, with energy. The situation is alarming and it is therefore important that we form a government as soon as possible, so that we can commit ourselves to this, so that we can single out big money and ensure security for the citizens of Serbia during the coming winter. We have stable public finances thanks to the entire government, the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank of Serbia, thanks to good work, the stability we have kept all the time. It is of great importance for us to maintain this stability. Food. We've got enough and we'll have enough. All attempts to destabilise the Serbian market will fail because we deceive no one. We don't lie to anyone when we say we have enough sugar, oil, wheat, sunflower, corn and anything else that's necessary for a normal and decent life. There are both key, essential, reform tasks ahead of Serbia, which will hurt many -- from a new and much more serious and responsible energy policy, education and science that must be the essence, a pillar of Serbia's progress in the future. I would specifically ask the Government not to be afraid of the reactions around the wider, more comprehensive and more convincing, more convincing introduction of dual education into our education system, because everyone was running away from it. The easiest thing to do is wait until the next salary and how much money the Ministry of Finance can provide without seeing how far behind we're behind Germany, Austria, Switzerland and how much we're not really ready to change ourselves, but we're ready to change everything else. We will continue, because the state must continue to invest in health, because healthcare exists, one of the pillars of both development and survival of our nation. Further digitisation, development of robotics, artificial intelligence, but also concern about climate change and environmental protection. We have many partners from Norway to the EU, to the United States with whom we have entered significant projects on energy security, security, as well as environmental protection, which should be deepened. As far as our army's issues are concerned, as commander-in-chief, I will try to make our army, with its influence, stronger, to be a guarantee of security, peace, security and stability. We've listened to countless times in the past months that Serbia, of course, is going to attack someone, that the Serb army is going to threaten and lie for days, for weeks as long as this crisis in Ukraine is going to last, 96 days. Ninety-six days, every day you've read these lies a hundred times and in a hundred places. And after 96 days, no one's told us I'm sorry. No one has told us yet - sorry we lied from day one and thank Serbia for acting like a pillar of stability and never endangering anyone and never asking anyone, except for asking her to be her own on her own, to have the right to protect her freedom, her own heaven and her own country, alone without anyone's help. Serbia, I am confident, dear friends, will safeguard its military neutrality jealously. We're not politically neutral. We are on a European path and we know our obligations, but our military neutrality we must guard. All around us are either NATO countries or NATO territories. There is no territory, entity, country to Serbia, besides Serbia that is not in NATO. Serbia is like a small island and some usually say it or cite it as a problem. So let me tell you, what's the problem with you trusting your people, believing the heroic gene of your citizens that we've been and being able to protect our country and not want to belong to any military bloc, that we just want to have the right to protect our borders, to protect our country, to have our own soldiers and to protect our own skies? Serbia also has more financial strength today to preserve its country than it had before. Serbia today would no longer be an easy prey, as unfortunately, despite our great heart, we were easy prey in 1999. And that's something I'm proud of. So we're not attacking anyone, we're not jeopardizing anyone, but I guarantee you one thing, which is that no one is going to dare and no one is going as easily as they once did, satisfying their geopolitical interests, not because someone loves us or doesn't love us, and not just because they don't have such interests today, as they once did, but because Serbia is stronger. And it is stronger thanks to the people and citizens of Serbia who invested in their armies, who believed in their armies and who know that the way is neutrality, the way to the future for the Republic of Serbia and for the people of Serbia. What's also important, it's that they pay and pensions will grow, inflation can't eat. Imported inflation, mostly imported inflation must not eat their income, because we have fought for a better standard of living and the government on this issue will have to work hard and pensions to track wages. And what's also important and without which we don't have a future, and which we're all talking about, to make a little joke on us, we all go on TV, all of us, all of us presidents, prime ministers, all of us analysts, all of us critics, all of us, whoever shows up somewhere always goes and says, "Here, our village is empty." Go back to the village, go to the village. In the end, you realize that we're very nice in cities. We live in cities normally. In all of Europe, there is such a trend all over the world and it will not change. And not people who live in the city worse than those who live in the village and vice versa, are not people who live in a village worse than those who live in the city. And with all our efforts, and with everything we've done, it's gonna be hard to change that trend. And then on the same side you hear about how and how many children we have, not enough children, we have no one left behind. And then whatever you say about it, you'll be the subject of criticism, because they'll tell you that you've offended someone because you want to encourage a naturalist or an intelligent policy because you've denied someone the right to do it. Don't be mad. Today we have much more and more popular TV shows and newspaper articles about pets than children. I'm sorry to have to tell you this as president of Serbia, I'm sorry no one else has the courage to say that, because he knows he's going to be lynched. I've been lynched hundreds of times, and I don't have a problem with that. The wildlings are pets. Both the dog and the cat and the parrot and the horses who have them in the country, the beautiful ones, each of them you love in your own way, but people we can't survive, we don't have a future if we don't have more children. There's no future for us, you can say whatever you want, it won't survive our country. Therefore, I expect the government to continue with the measures to encourage birth. And it's no insult to anyone. There are people who can't have children, there are people whose choice is that they don't want to have children, but we as a society and a state have to make sure that we have those who will extend their lives to the state. A state without citizens can't exist. And I'm going back again, and I'm going to say a few more words about the neighbors and what we do. It is very important to us that we have achieved in the previous period. With our Hungarian friends, we have the closest and best possible relationship, I speak to the Hungarian state, the nearest, historical closest relations, and that's something we have to guard and cultivate. We also have very good relations with Romania and Bulgaria, in the wider region and with Greece and Turkey. We have, thanks to the Open Balkans initiative for which I will stand up and fight with all my heart, probably the best in the history of relations with Northern Macedonia and Albania. I would especially like to thank the SPC, His Holiness to Patriarch Porphyri for the extraordinary wise decisions he has made, thereby contributing to the friendship and brotherhood that we have with the Macedonian people. It's something history, Your Holiness, will judge, not daily report. Thanks to you and thanks to the policy that we have led today, Serbia is the most popular country in northern Macedonia in their population, we feel them as brothers today and we have no problem with those relations and that is a big thing that we have managed to do. Our relations with Albania are getting better, stronger, stronger. Where we will have to pay a lot of attention, these are our relations with Zagreb, with Croatia, to try to change a lot, to finally agree not to look at anything from the past in the same way, that our views in the past are different, different, but to try to find the same glasses and the same binoculars for the future, and to see what it is that we can do together. The doors of Belgrade and the gates, and the presidential door will always be open to good dialogue and conversation with Zagreb. I expect the same with political Sarajevo, but they must know that we will always protect the interests of international public rights, these are the interests of Serbia, respect for the Dayton Agreement, respect for the BiH Constitution, integrity of BiH, but that we will always ask that there is no change in the Dayton Agreement without the consent of all three peoples and that we will be comprehensible with the Republic of Serbia, further develop our relations whenever we can and if we can help Republika Srpska and we are not ashamed of it, and we are not jeopardising anyone, because we will always and at all times give our hand to support, hand and hand help. It used to be said, my father was from the other side of Drina, I was somehow born in Belgrade, so Serbs on the other side of Drina always said that never people in Serbia can understand how much Republika Srpska loves Serbia. I would say today, especially to our guests from Republika Srpska, that they should not doubt how many people in Serbia love Republika Srpska and that it is nothing less than how much Republika Srpska loves Serbia. What is important to us, it is that, despite all the political differences, despite the fact that sometimes someone does not want to accept the outstretched hand, we build good, friendly and close relationships. We must also do this because of the large number of Bosniaks living in our country and the events of the Priboj must never happen again. I'll tell you one thing from which you can best see how much these people love their country. After 37 years, as we managed to build highways, railways, hospitals, factories after many decades, we were able to bring in two gold medals from the European Boxing Championship after 37 years, but we failed to bring in one medal. It is about one Prepoljc, Mamic or Memic, who will not be angry, Bosnjak is, who fought so hard for Serbia, so with all his heart, in Yerevan it was a competition, that I wish you could see it. Whenever he brought the medal, he would cover Serbia's flag with pride. We should be proud of our Bosniak brothers and all those who fight for this country and build that future with them. Now I would like to add that to the Serbian way, to spice, because without it, we cannot, without the conspiracy theory with us Serbs, rob him of judges in the battle for the medal, revote him to lose that match. We can't change the whole world, we can just accept it as it is and look for its place. What we can, what we want to continue, is to change ourselves, to build our own country, in every sense, to build it, in every field of science, education, health, economy, infrastructure, sport, culture. We will also build buildings, because according to Ivo Andric, they do not only change the appearance and significance of the area in which they are located, but they have deep biological connections with the people who serve them. There is an intimate and invisible connection between buildings and human settlement, one complex and vague but continuous exchange of mutual influences. The people, through the exploits of their individuals, create structures on the image and opportunity of their deepest, often unconscious aspirations and traits, and these buildings slowly and constantly affect the character and habits of the people. We're getting better, the great writer told us, building ourselves and his country. It's not just structural structures, it's everything we've built and everything we've yet to build. That's the key goal I'm going to make of this mandate, my last, that when I leave this place, I know that Serbia is a better country than it was when I came to it. There is no sacrifice I will not bear for that purpose and there is no thing I will not do, an effort I will not be prepared for. Because ideals have no compromise, and that's the only thing there is no compromise with. Everything else is subject to compromises and compromise is a beautiful word, not an ugly word. In the end, it's precisely because my only ideal is Serbia. By putting my hand on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Gospel of Miroslav, I take on myself the burden of great responsibility. It is not only a responsibility to this generation of Serbian citizens, but also to its great predecessors, especially generations that are yet to come. The great Negos says: “The generations of the work of the judgment. ” I live in the belief that our policy will resist the court of time and that future generations, devoid of emotion that direct participants and moderns always and inevitably have, from a safe historical distance our time will objectively assess as the time of Serbia's stabilisation and takeoff. Before I finish, dear friends, I want to thank everyone. I want you here too from this call to parliament or the old calling for parliament, because you have brought great and important changes to Serbia. You are the ones who dared to say: We will not have all power in our hands, we will have an independent judiciary. You were the only one who could say and do it. You have passed the most important laws, to save the people at the time of Kovid. You brought the most important measures when Serbia was to be financially protected and preserved. You've done a lot of good for our people and our citizens. It's history that will judge, not someone on the daily level. I want to thank all of the former presidents of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, who have made a huge contribution to our country's progress, who know what the state is, who today show that whoever knows once what the state is never forgets what its duty is and never forgets what the state is and always adheres to basic principles, that the state and the interests of the state must be more important than personal interests. So thank you all for being here today and forever having my respect for everything you've done for our country. I want to thank you, dear friends from Republika Srpska. With you, Željka, Mile, I've done a lot of things for the past five years, a lot of good, I think we've done for our people. I'm sure we've made mistakes. Thank you for sometimes suffering my different attitudes, for being able to understand that we don't have to have the same opinion on every matter, but we knew what our goal was, and that's good for our Serbian people, and that's always good for the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. Thank you for putting up with me. Thank you, Your Holiness, for always being with our people, for always being there to share both good and evil. I want to take the opportunity to thank my family for not being easy in the past five years. I don't want to whine, because it won't be easier for her in the next five years, I just want to tell Danil, Milic and Vukan that I love them endlessly and that Dad couldn't do anything without them. For all these things, I will pray to God in the same way that Rebekah West did while the Nazi bombs fell to her homeland: “Lord, let me stick to Serbian. Long live Serbia! “
ParlaMint-RS_2022-05-31-0.u12446	Ladies and gentlemen, allow us to move forward with the protocol, bearing in mind that we have a few more steps to go. I thank everyone and conclude the 11th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Thank you very much.
