ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12002	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the session of the 15th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the session is attended by 111 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I would ask the Members of Parliament to insert their cards into the e-system's parliamentary units. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 136 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12003	O people! We have created you from one man and one woman, and We have divided you into tribes and peoples, so that you may come to know one another, the Qur'an. It serves a man honour when he remains far from contention, and every madman is contentious, a Bible of wise proverbs, chapter 20. Dear People's MPs, I have said this one more time to say that we peoples living in the Republic of Serbia, believing the nations are seeking what our faiths teach us, our beacons, and that there is peace, harmony between us and love, understanding, and understanding among us is what our noble and honorable faith teaches us. Any one who does not want to respect what is about the lighthouses and the Bible and the Koran is obliged to respect what is the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia. I said this on purpose today, because we had events in Priboj, one of the most beautiful cities in the Republic of Serbia, where international and interfaith life is for example for the whole region, where someone who doesn't think well of Bosniaks or Serbs wanted to re-remember what took us in the 1990s. Of course, both Bosniaks and Serbs Priboja and political representatives of Bosniaks and Serbs Priboj have unanimously stepped in defense of peace, mutual respect, co-existence and the return of public order and peace. What we've had in the past few days is very dangerous. It is very dangerous because someone who has sworn to respect the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia, and the Constitution says that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of religious, national and racial membership, are equal and that their human, their civil, minority and religious rights must be respected. It is something that has been held by someone who is sworn to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the laws of the Republic of Serbia, to try to humiliate. That is why we have asked the most significant findings in the Republic of Serbia to take urgent action so that all those disgraced by the Republic of Serbia, who disgraced the police, the border police, and who are trying in any way to bring unrest among citizens, will urgently sanction, suspend and go where they belong, i.e. to prisons to answer for what they did. No one in this country has anything against Bosniaks or Serbs, but it has against those isolated cases that do not wish well for Bosniaks or Serbs, and especially those parts of the state's authority as police are, what is the border police that would have to show tolerance to each citizen. At the border crossing to Uvc, a very large number of people and Bosniaks, and Serbs, and Bosniaks from the Republic of Serbia, and Bosniaks from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Serbs and the Republic of Serbia, and Serbs from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and from the diaspora and so on. Can't be the one that caused the accident back in the '90s anymore. There can no longer be one who wants the new market what happened in Vukovar. Can't be the one who wants the Shadows to know what happened in Srebrenica. The country's answer is clear, concrete and direct. It's an example of the rise of a dead city, a dead city in terms of industry, and that's how it has to go on. The new Pazar is an example where, in the coming period, human relations will continue to develop and, of course, strive to provide people with real values for life, which is that in their city, they can live on their profits. The session is an example of where schools, scientific and technological parks will be built very quickly in the future, and these are the best answers for all those who want to disrupt justice and reconciliation between Bosniaks and Serbs. As Bosniak, as a national MP and as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, I once again urge everyone to return to what is the essence of our lives, which is to build mutual trust, mutual love and build the best possible relationships. It also encourages the fact that tomorrow in Priboj will be the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, who will, with his authority and all that he should do, simply never think of anyone in any way jeopardizing his fellow citizens, and especially those who are in minority, such as Bosniaks in the minority in that city, and especially those who represent the word of God, and these are imams, they are mosques. So once again, I give great recognition to the Priboi and the Straits of the Islamic Community, in the strength to recognize what is true, and the truth is that all the citizens of Priboj, regardless of religion and nation, are against those who in any way want to destroy the dignity of all people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12004	Thank you. Anyone else want to ask for a note or an explanation? The word has a folk MP, Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12005	Thank you, Chairman. Today's issue I also refer to the subject of threats sent to the Bosniak people in Priboj and I refer them to the republican public prosecutor's office, which concerns precisely those more and more frequent and loud threats that we can hear in public space. I ask this question, not because we have some overtrust in the prosecution, but to draw attention to both the institution and the citizens of Serbia, but also to the international public as much as the institutions in Serbia encourage and silently allow the spread, intimidation and spread of national and religious hatred and impatience. After serious crimes committed by police and military over the Bosniak people in Sandzak, including kidnappings, mass abductions, shelling villages, police tortures, including crimes just committed against citizens, Bosniaks in Priboj. We bear witness to the rise in these threats and the rise in them again and the painful awareness that the crime is a means of achieving national and state interests. You've all seen footage of police officers in Priboj singing songs that are being threatened by new genocide, new war crimes against Bosniaks, and I hope the prosecution has looked at that video too, and we've been here for years to warn of these phenomena, unfortunately, without any reaction. The only difference is that now the cops have recorded those threats and released it themselves. Earlier, police officers were protecting hooligans who were shouting these kind of passwords at sports events, and today, police officers joined them in it, and only after the public pressure, some kind of disciplinary procedure was launched against these police officers in the video. We're not interested in this disciplinary procedure. We're interested in criminal responsibility. The disciplinary procedure should be conducted by the minister, the minister who leaves a candle under the murals of Ratko Mladic in Belgrade. All police officers who sang threatening songs sent to the Bosniak people must be prosecuted for violating provisions 317, 375, 387, the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia, to disperse racial, religious and national hatred and impatience, to organise and encourage the unorganised execution of genocides, and to publicly approve genocides and other war crimes. The prescribed fines range from three months to 10 years in prison. These nameless and mild disciplinary measures that have been announced against the police have actually encouraged these new threats, these disciplinary procedures and the formation of some commissions, have been denied and reduced by the seriousness of this crime, they say – a commission has been formed. What black crime commission? For the crime is the prosecution, the court and the prison and this is trying to present itself as an isolated incident, because of such a soft reaction, after just a few days on Christmas Eve in Priboj are also singing songs, a group of young men with torches sang songs "It's Christmas, it's Christmas, it's shooting at mosques" and it's trying to present itself as the work of an individual. In Novi Pazar, Christmas was first celebrated with torches and roadblocks and nationalist performances. Fans became fans and torches became major roles. If the prosecution does not react as soon as possible, Bosniaks will create stable mechanisms by internationalising the issue for their biological survival in Sandzak. Now, we've been looking for the prosecution's reactions to these and similar phenomena before, and we've looked for and warned that these songs are being sung at both joys and sports events. The lack of the prosecution's reaction also encouraged the graphite and murals and new threats and torches of hooligans and nationalist songs both in Priboj and in Novi Pazar. And these days we hear that the president is going to visit Priboj to quote: "trying to stop at various international tensions in Priboj", let's call it the right name, they are not to various international tensions in Priboj, there have been threats to the Bosniak people, there have been an increase in Chetnik orgies and announcements of new genocides, and what are the international threats that the Bosniaks have threatened. Millions of welcome Serbs have been passing through Novi Pazar for centuries, studying at our universities, visiting cultural historical monuments, both Bosniak and Serb cultures. They trade business with our businessmen, and they laugh at your behavior like this, and by justifying how in Novi Pazar, they're singing in kebabs and bureks in Novi Pazar. So both Serbs and Bosniaks laugh at you for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12006	The People's Messenger Radovan Aregina has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12007	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Christos was born. I'm taking this opportunity to congratulate all citizens and citizens and wish 2022 a happy year. My parliamentary question today refers specifically to the Ministry of Youth and Sports. We are witnessing these days a sad globalist performance that takes place in Australia, unfortunately some democratic world, which is itself more than democratic values, in which free man is the highest value. Our planetary most famous countryman Novak Nole Djokovic, on the eve of Christmas Day, was detained in a Julian calendar, not to mention incarcerated by immigration Australian authorities, and during Christmas days. The president of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, National Assembly President Ivica Dacic and others reacted. The impression is that we have not heard the Ministry of Youth and Sports as our Novak Nole Djukanovic deserves, several times the world's best player, Europe and our Serbia, the world's first racket for countless weeks in a row. The sports ministry, the Sports Union of Serbia, and others, as support to our sports and athletes, by the Serbian state, which is increasingly spending more and more resources on developing the overall Serbian sport, on the first page of its agendas and obligations, under point 1. are tasked with protecting Serbian athletes and athletes. Why are you silent, dear friends of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, it's a miracle you didn't answer or answer? But it didn't bother Vijori Chetaku, such a politician with so-called Kosovo or better said for centuries and until today's kidnapped Kosovo, that on the news of Novak's medical exception, on his Twitter warrant he publishes alluding to Novak, a quote from Orvell's animal farm "All animals are equal but some are more equal than others," not realizing that he insults athletes all over the world from speed and particularly evil intentions, as soon as he insults and spits the best in the world, and that Serbian from Zvecan, from Serbian KIM, Novak Nolet Djokovic. George Orwell, he left more thoughts about thinking about humanity, one of them says, in a world where everything is a delusion to tell the truth is a revolutionary act, Vijora Chetaku and all of her companions these days from all sides, you should know just that, our Nole story, plays and lives the truth. Nole Djokovic is always unreservedly supporting and cheering for former SFRY athletes and whenever he competes against anyone else in the world without being from Serbia. And by that, he is the consistent heir to the legend of the champion of Mate Parlov. Nole is the prototype of our Patriarch Porfiri, who first quoted Rahmelli Efendi Zukorlic in this assembly – you cannot be worldly if you are not yourself. Novak is his first and ours and above all the worldly. With all due respect, I would like to thank Judge Anthony Kelly for the verdict he returned to Novak and thus saved Australia's democratic cheek. I propose to the government of the Republic of Serbia that it favours Judge Kelly, the words of Judge Anthony Kelly to the prosecutor – what could this man, referring to Nolet Djokovic, do more? These are words that some can guide themselves and ask themselves seriously. I wish Serbian athletes and athletes a successful 2022, Novak Djokovic 10. Grand Slem at the Australian Open, and it is my special pleasure that on behalf of all of us here present to our fellow MP Ratko Nikolic, director of the Handball Team of Serbia, with our team, achieves the best possible result at the European Championship held in Hungary and Slovakia in the coming period, and lived Serbian sport and that we are looking forward to this year as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12008	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12009	Thank you, Chairman. I'm sorry that the previous speaker, in fact, didn't have any patience before Mr. Aregina, but immediately after he spilled a bunch of nonsense and nonsense, he ran away from the O.R., but that's already his custom and manners. Because of the citizens, I want to say that there is no state body, there is no official of the state of Serbia who has not condemned scandalous behaviour and events from Priboj. There is no decent man in Serbia who was not hard to watch that video and who did not condemn such behaviour. The president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, will be in Priboj tomorrow, where, for who knows which time, he will once again tell that the state of Serbia is the state of the Serbian people, but also of all citizens who live in it and that we are all absolutely equal, equal and that the state of Serbia cares about Bosniaks. When I say so, I think in the best possible way that I care about all its citizens and, of course, Bosniaks from that part of Serbia, and that way I will influence the reduction of growing international tensions. Only those who see a chance to achieve some political benefit from it, only they point out that as a subject and do not accept such arguments. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am asking today's parliamentary question to the government of the Republic of Serbia, namely the Prime Minister, Mrs. Ana Brnabic. It relates to the so-called. Protests and traffic blockades organised in Serbia in recent weeks, especially because of announcements that this will continue and even radicalise it. So, what the state of Serbia will do to protect the vast majority of Serbian citizens from terrors of absolute but very aggressive minorities in Serbia, by blocking the roads of key roads, highways, etc. Why am I asking this? Because today it is absolutely clear to everyone in Serbia that these are purely political protests, that they have nothing to do with environmental science or the Green Agenda, nor with concern for the environment, nor with the famous Rio Tint, but are organised exclusively for the daily political purposes with one single goal, which is to bring down Alexander Vukic. This is already clear to all of Serbia, if anyone has had any misunderstandings in this sense, because how do we explain the fact that we have absolutely everything, but we have met all the requirements, which, among other things, was confirmed by that Savo Manojlović, who is the organizer of these protests, or one of the organisers, and they continue to insist and continue to protest, especially if we have in mind that this group of these false environmentalists, this Chuta and others do not even make new demands. We also know that their anxiety is high because of the upcoming elections and that there is now a competition on which of them will have a primate on that part of the opposition political scene and that's all right, but the citizens of Serbia cannot suffer because of their sick political ambitions. So, all this is saying that there is no concern about environmentalism here, no concern for the preservation of the environment, but these protests are solely politically motivated. To understand each other in Serbia has the right to protest. So anyone can protest, everyone in Serbia has the right to express their political stance, but in accordance with the law and the Constitution of this country. Even these fake environmentalists and this Cuta and Zelenovic and everyone else have a right, and even political protests, and that's all legitimate, but don't hide behind any environmentals. Go forth and say, "We are against Alexander Vukić." We want to come to power in Serbia together with Gilas, Lutovac, Jeremic and everyone else. It's all legitimate, but you're hiding behind environmentals. So, come out and tell me, and let's see how many Serbian citizens support you in that. They know that in this case they have absolutely no chance, and then they are not trying to hide behind some environmental and non-governmental organisations, etc., with the aim of cheating voters in Serbia. Now we are, the chairman, in one to say the schizophrenic situation, which is that those who are directly responsible for bringing in all problems related to "Rio Tinto". So those who directly brought "Rio Tinto" to Serbia today protest against "Rio Tinta". What does SNS have to do with Rio Tinto? What does Alexander Vukic have to do with "Rio Tinto"? All important arrangements, all key decisions related to Rio Tinto, were made between 2004 and 2012. Who was in power then? Alexander Wolfie or someone else? So, the same ones who are protesting Rio Tinta today trying to score some political point, and that's what Serbian citizens should know. But well, if we let their hypocrisy aside, here, protest, protest until the will, but according to the law. But you can't block the highway, you can't block vital international traffic, you can't stop life in Serbia, you can't harass citizens, you can't break the laws of the Republic of Serbia. What is particularly dangerous is the announcements that these protests will radicalise, so now we see that they are threatening to paralyze Serbia, even by violence, even by blocking borders, believe it or not, even by blocking the state border. I therefore appeal to the Serbian Government, the Ministry of the Interior, all competent authorities, to prevent any outflows of violence and to stop harassing citizens by these false environmentalists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12010	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Since he's not answering for a word right now, we're gonna keep working. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Josip Broz, Ratko Nikolic, Justina Pupin Kosćal, Jelena Mihailovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider the draft law in the agenda set out in the Government request as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the session of the 15th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly, which was convened at the Government's request, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with a certain agenda contained in the request. For the session of the 15th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly, the following Dn e n e r e d: 1. The proposal for a law on the Interim Register of Citizens of the Republic of Serbia from 16 to 29 years of age, which pays for financial assistance to mitigate the pandemic of COVID-19 caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus, which the government has submitted. We're going to work on the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend: Sinisa Mali, Minister of Finance, whom I welcome on this occasion, Tatjana Matic, Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Slavica Savičić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Sonja Talian, Assistant Minister of Finance and Vladimir Pejic, Head of Finance. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I'm taking the opportunity to inform you that we're going to be working without a break today and the plan is to finish work around 4:00. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's Rules of Procedure on the Proposal for a Law on the Interim Register of Citizens of the Republic of Serbia from 16 to 29 years of age, which is being paid financial assistance to mitigate the effects of the pandemic COVID-19 caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12011	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, firstly wish you all the best for you and your families in 2022. Today there is a very important law before you, a law that allows for the payment of 100 euros in dinar equivalent to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia from 19 to 29 years old. This is part of the programme to reduce the negative consequences of COVIDA-19, therefore, of the pandemic caused by the coronary virus and to help this category of citizens of Serbia. What is particularly important is to highlight, therefore, the criteria for reporting are such that all those who are 16 and over 29 are registered. So, a very clear criterion on the day of publication of this law. It was also questions on my Instagram profile, so I just wanted to make it clear right away. What is very important, therefore, is the application process itself is very simple, very easy, therefore, the number of ID cards, JMBG and the choice of bank accounts in which you want to receive 100 euros. If that person doesn't have a bank account, then he only chooses the name of the bank, and then we will open an account in that bank in his name and he will be able to raise that money with his personal document. So another very important measure to show not only the strength of our public finances, but also the care of those we consider our help and our concern to be most needed. I will also take the opportunity to remind you that on Friday, January 14th, all health workers will be paid 10,000 dinars. So, another kind of help, and I'd say, a nice start in 2022. And what awaits our oldest citizens, therefore, our pensioners, on February 10th, on the accounts of all our pensioners, we will pay 20,000 dinars, in order to further mitigate the negative consequences of Kovid 19. So on January 14th, we have a payment of 10,000 dinars on the accounts of all health workers, the 15th starts to apply for 100 euros and lasts until January 30, 1, 2nd and 3rd of February we pay those 100 euros and 10th of February we pay 20,000 dinars to the accounts of all our oldest citizens. There are two things I still want to share with you and remind you. So, since January 1st, pensions have increased by 5.5% corresponding to the Swiss formula, too, the minimum labour price has increased by as much as 9.4%. For the first time, we have a minimum profit of 300 euros, over 35,000 dinars and also increased salaries in the public sector between 7% and 8%, somewhere on average 7.4%. So, the first pensions of January, the first salaries, the first minimum earnings paid on the basis of these increased criteria will be paid in early February, and that is another sign that we meet the promises we made in both the dinar and the day and that we take care of the standard of living of Serbian citizens. Finally, what I would like to remind you and congratulate all of you, to congratulate the citizens of Serbia, therefore, by the flush estimate for the 2021 growth rate of our economy was 7.5%, with a minus coma of nine, which we had in 2020. If we look at those two years cumulatively, it's 6.5%, it's after Ireland's highest growth rate in Europe. So Serbia wins at the time of the biggest pandemic, in the time of the biggest economic crisis. So, the budgets that you've voted for, the way we've been fighting for salary increases, the increase in pensions, the never-greater capital investments, had and gave their results exactly in extremely high, I say, the highest growth rate for the Republic of Serbia during these two pandemic years. This is very important news, which is where we are, I want to point out, despite the huge help, when we add up the first, second, third aid package, when we add up this money that we will also give to healthcare professionals, which we will also give to pensioners, these 100 euros that we will pay to our young people, when we add it all together, the total aid that the Republic of Serbia has given to help citizens and to help the economy in the past two years is 8.7 billion euros, 18% of our GDP. So, a huge number, but exactly the figure that shows the strength of our economy, the stability of our public finances and the responsibility of our policy, the policy that is aimed at helping those who need our help most. I hope that in the voting day you will support this law. This is good news for our young, beautiful news and for that category of Serbian citizens. We will, of course, keep that promise. I'll stay at your disposal if you have any further questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12012	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for the explanation of the truly extraordinary bill. The word is given by the officials of the congregation committees. The word has the chairman of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12013	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow Members, today we have discussed this bill on the Committee. What I think was of great interest to young people, in fact, the definition of the law, which means 16 to 29 years. Since a certain time will pass when this law will enter into force, from the day of entry into force of anyone who is 16 from that moment on, has the right to this aid of the state and of the one who is 29 years old and 364 days old. Why is that? Because under the Family Support Act, legislation defines between 16 and 29 years of age, and the law is actually much wider and covers a million and 40 to a million and 50,000 potential young people who, whether or not they apply for this help, have the right and the possibility to get targeted aid from the state. I think that this information and this bill are of great importance, which gives one great optimism not only to the people we know that the target groups in society are defined by budget and assistance that will go in February of the month, but also to young people at last receive one focus and status in society, where they are recognised as one target group where the state pays particular attention. I will, when I represent our parliamentary group, when I expose myself as an authorised representative, say what other measures the state has given besides these 100 euros to help prevent the harmful influences of Kovid19 and pandemic. This is an indicator, in fact, that the state is thinking about Serbia's future and that it is of great importance to us, that here at the tide we say who has the right to all this kind of help, which is, in fact, a potential young man who is due to apply from January 15th to 30th to a portal that the state has made possible. As members of the Finance Committee, it was a great pleasure to discuss this law today. Believe me, the debate is not closed in a short time, precisely because we know that we are responding to all young people who are asking us as members of the Committee and MPs whether or not who has the right, in what way to apply for these funds. So we really thank you for coming here in the new year with such an optimistic proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12014	Thank you. We move on to authorised representatives and presidents of Parliament clubs. The first on the list is the honourable MP representative of the Justice and Reconciliation Party and the USS, Mr Samir Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12015	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, citizens and citizens, before I start talking about today's draft agenda, or a law that is very important and important for all our citizens and citizens, also, since I am an MP from Sandzak, who comes from Polimlje, I want to talk about the incident that took place in the Municipality of Priboj. What is very important and what we must all, regardless of party, religious and national belongings to note, is to give recognition to the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, who reacted quickly, condemned the incidents and who will be in Priboj tomorrow. This is proof that what the president has said several times, that the state of Serbia belongs to all citizens, both Bosniaks and Serbs and Hungarians and Roma, to all citizens and citizens living here, that this is also proved in practice. The incident is very painful, and it is unequivocally necessary that we all condemn it. Those people who do bad deeds, who call for murders, the burning of religious objects, who glorify crime, in my opinion, have neither faith nor nation and have no right to hide behind religion, nor the nation, nor the service in which they work. They have their own name and last name and they need to answer for everything they've done. We won't, and we can't allow any spills of international intolerance, because it's not Pryboy. The village is one of the most beautiful cities in our country, where the Bosnian and Serb people live for centuries in harmony and harmony. And we must never again allow those who do not think like most Pribojs and us, citizens and citizens in the Republic of Serbia to think that their opinion and behavior come to terms and that they are dominant. That's why we're the rule of law, that's why we fight crime against corruption, that's why we fight evil and crime. I read the reports, a disciplinary case was filed against the perpetrators, and the report was sent to the D.A.'s office. In order not to have any politics, trying to earn some cheap political points on this case, I expect the prosecution to react quickly and to punish offenders, so that no one ever comes to mind, regardless of religion, nation and party membership, to insult anyone. Everyone has the right to express his political views in accordance with the Constitution and the law, but no one has the right to threaten anyone, to insult anyone or to glorify evil and crime. Also, a young man has been identified who called for a shooting at the mosque and has also been informed of it by the competent prosecutor's office. The accent is on the prosecution both in one case and in another, and I will indeed, as well as all my colleagues and the public, follow the prosecution's case. I expect them to react urgently, to bring judgment and to put an end to this incident and this unfortunate event. I would also like to give recognition to the municipality leadership in Priboj, MP Krst Janjusevic and municipality president Lazar Rvovic, who spoke to representatives of the Islamic community on Sunday, with representatives of all relevant Bosniak parties in Priboj and sent a message of peace, tolerance, security and understanding. I think it's really a real face and a Priboba and all the statements we heard from that meeting, although the actors representing both Serbian parties and Bosniaks are not in one party, but represent their parties, were unique in condemning this disgusting act and unique that Priboj is one environment that is the heritage of interethnic and interconfessional harmony and that so should be continued. In any case, if God is not the new Srebrenica, it is President Aleksandar Vukic and said when he was in Sjenica, that Sjenica will be the municipality that has the best school in the Republic of Serbia. This financial year envisions eightm euros for building the most modern elementary school in Sjenica. I expect that part of the country where I come from, so the Sanjak municipalities, Sandzak, are really going to be a place where big foreign companies will start to come and we will solve all the challenges we face, and primarily the emigration of our people, both Bosniaks and Serbs, and we will never again talk about these topics that really try to destabilise our country and disturb the citizens of both Bosniak and Serb nationalities, but I believe all those who do not live in that part of our country. That is why it is a very important message from President Vukic, which is why it is very important that President Vukic will be in Priboj tomorrow and that is something, I am absolutely sure, that every citizen and citizen expect from the president of their country. This is another proof that we really have a statesman at the head of this country who, with his behavior, has put trust in all citizens and citizens, regardless of religion and nation. Also, I'd like to remind you that in recent times, we haven't had that kind of behavior since the state's greatest representatives. I remind you that in 2010, President Boris Tadic sent a special unit of the gendarmes to kidnap the object of the Islamic community and to physically deal with representatives of the Islamic community, i.e. imam. That's how it was in 2010, and now we see how it is. Let everyone compare and put their hands on your heart and say was it better then or is it now? Of course, nothing is ideal. We really do daily, and that's why we have this session today, we are trying to improve democratic pluralism and democratic society, and I want to give recognition to all the MPs, colleagues and colleagues who are here today. Indeed, it's an extremely difficult time, we've all traveled a long time, but, no matter what the kiameth is out there, which is not passing through, I want to criticise the authorities when it comes to maintaining the highways and highways. Today we are here because of citizens and citizens, because there is a very important law on the agenda -- support for young people 16 to 29 years of age of 100 euros. Maybe someone will say it's a small and symbolic amount. I think it's a very important support, in a financial sense, but also in a symbolic sense. Because young people know that their country, that their country takes care of them. We can compare ten years ago as it was and whether then governments and then authorities cared for both young generations and pensioners. I want to say hello, the finance minister is here today, we have a salary increase in the public sector, we have a pension increase since 1 January, we have an allowance of 10,000 dinars to health workers who are heroes of the fight against the pandemic and 20,000 for our pensioners who will be paid as of 1 February. The economic aid package is now over eight billion euros. All this would not have been possible if we hadn't had economic growth in the past year of 7.5% and this year the announced economic growth of 4.5%. It's proof, it's not an ideal situation, it's proof that we're moving in the right direction, that we work daily as parliament and government and other institutions in this country. Whoever thinks they can give more support, because some last time I talked about 20-euro support, they made fun of it -- so what does that mean? Go ahead, no one defends any local self-government if they have enough resources to give it more help to the citizens. This is something we should certainly support, and for this reason today, the Justice and Reconciliation Party and the United Peasant Party, we will vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12016	I thank the honourable People's MP, Samir Tandira. The next is the honourable MP and representative of the Single Serbia Parliament bench, Life Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12017	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to wish, at the beginning of all of you, of course, the citizens of Serbia, that I wish for a happy new 2022. First session, first extraordinary session this year is with a nice subject. Today, we are discussing the proposal for a law on the temporary register of citizens of the Republic of Serbia from 16 to 29 years of age who are being paid financial aid to mitigate the consequences of Kovid-19. For many times in the last year and a half, we have passed similar laws providing additional support to citizens and economic operators in the Republic of Serbia as a result of the Kovid-19 pandemic. The coronal pandemic of the virus in the last two years has led to the economic crisis of world scales, to a major decline in activity everywhere in the world, to the global energy crisis. It's also increased the volume of government debt and it's reduced, after all, the standard of living for most of our planet's inhabitants. This crisis continues and we can only hope that this rapid spread of Omicron virus will be the last wave and that the world will manage to cope with this invisible enemy. Where in all this is our beautiful Serbia in the last two years? We fought, we seemed everything, well, among other things, and thanks to the austerity measures in the previous period and the fiscal consolidation measures, the Serbian cash register could withstand the pressure of the coronary virus. We managed to preserve production capacity, we managed to preserve jobs, to maintain the level of government debt below the Mastricht level, to achieve an economic growth of 7.5% in the previous year, 2021. We even managed to increase the minimum earnings to 300 euros, as you said ministers, and the average salary to bring up a level of 600 euros. We were able to increase the amount of pensions per Swiss formula and provide adequate assistance to businesses and citizens and to have a stable energy situation throughout the world at the time of the energy crisis, that the level of employment today be below the level of employment before the pandemic of the coronary virus. We succeeded, Minister, for this 2022 year to plan, but also to announce the budget, which not only is investment and developmental, but also plans to further reduce our country's debt. Of course, we succeeded, and that is very important, that in 2022 we remain a leader in direct foreign investment that amounted to 3.9 billion euros. While we are already, Mr. Minister, with foreign investments, I would like to inform you that right now we are talking, Dragan Marković palm, JS leader, MP and President of the Jagodina City Assembly with the directors of the German company Fisher who opened the Fisher Car factory Jagodina for the production of parts for Mercedes and BMW last year. These talks are currently under way on the topic of opening new, other factories of the company, Fisher, also in Jagodina, which will produce screw goods and various types of industrial and construction types, which makes the company the most famous in the world. The second, the new factory of the German company Fischer, will employ new 600 workers, new 600 young people. All of this I have cited is thanks to, among other things, to the implementation of three packages of state aid, which amounted to eight billion euros, which included the assistance of businesses, citizens, and all categories of the population, employees and unemployed, pensioners and today young people. Young people aged 16 to 29 are either students or are at the beginning of their careers and are certainly welcome in all kinds of support and assistance. Today we are talking about the temporary register of young people to whom we will provide 100 euros in aid. This is particularly important to us from JS because they are young for JS law. We have shown this for many years, both by our actions in parliament and by our actions in the environments in which citizens have given us confidence. That young JS laws speak of traditional students' trips to Vienna, which the city of Jagodina organises for students who study at universities in Jagodina and for Jagodinci who study at universities in Belgrade, Kragujevac and Nis. We do this to show our students how to live and study in a city that is repeatedly declared the best place to live, but we take them to show that on a work day after 10 o'clock in the evening, the streets are empty and empty because they are working, and they are lying there early and resting. We're taking them to see the University of Vienna, to see that this university is good, but that they can also say that our universities are nothing weaker. Dragan Markovic Palma has repeatedly stressed that he wants our young people to leave, see the world, but to come back and live and work in our country. As Ludvik Bor said – if you want to love and know your country, go to other people's countries. It's the policy we stand for, the policy we implement, and the policy we support. Care for young people is that every year for years we take students of the fourth grade and eighth grade of elementary school, as well as students of the high school finals free of charge about the cost of the city of Jagodina to the sea. Often when we meet and ask these young people how many times they've even been at sea they say three times, in the fourth, eighth and the end of high school. Care for young people is that we have the lowest price of kindergartens in Serbia. The concern for young people is that since 2004, we have been leading a persistent and fundamental policy of intelligence, which is why every year Jagodina enrolls in one class of champion students more. Care for young people is that they introduced free transport at first for young people, students and pensioners, and later for all citizens of the city of Jagodina. Care for young people is that JS has been leading the city of Jagodina for the past 17 years, the October Jagodina Prize is given to the best students of all primary and secondary schools in Jagodina, and this is the most often the first money made in their lives. Care for young people is that the city of Jagodina finances all sports clubs both in the city and in the villages. Care for young people is that every strawberry village has a large terrain and a lit little sports field. The concern for young people is that in every strawberry village, but also in the city, cultural arts societies are funded from the city and taken care of the cultural life of young people in the country. Care for young people is also free concerts during the Jagodinic Cultural Summer. The concern for young people in the end is very important, and the 100 euros that the state gives to young people is the fight for youth and youth care. In this fight for young people, everyone, state, local self-government, cultural, educational institutions, sports organisations, economy, everyone, society. The fight for young people is also new jobs. The fight for young people is also quality education. The fight for young people is the opening of a science and technology park. There's no alternative in fighting for young people. We really need to turn and slowly in recent years and succeed, this trend of moving young people out of the country. More and more often, we can see examples of young people returning from the white world to their homeland, and we must not stand in that fight, because as long as the last young man, and I would say to the last citizen of Serbia, we do not return to our beautiful Serbia who raised them, who educated them and whose sun warms them better than anywhere in the white world... When we win this fight, and we do everything we can to win it, we can say that our policy has won, that we have adjudicated with our policy all the destructive actions and care for young people who have shown generations of politicians before us, especially the carelessness of those who have so many times in Europe that all the young people from Serbia have driven them to the same Europe. They are today calling for a round-up referendum on constitutional changes -- no. To them, Europe only suits them when they are able to fill their own pockets with public money and when young people are in rivers and when young people in rivers go to Europe. When something needs to be done towards faster EU accession, they call for such moves to be eliminated. That is precisely the case with the upcoming referendum on constitutional changes, which were supported along the way by the Venice Commission and the EU, because we have opened two clusters thanks to the process of constitutional change. They call for not such constitutional changes. In doing so, they use dirty tricks and lies, laying cowardly eggs as the referendum changes, I don't know, preambles about Kosovo, or how the referendum opens the door to Rio Tint, who, along the way, opened the door to Serbia in 2004 and later years. Why are they doing this? First, because neither Eurointegration nor Serbia nor young people, nor citizens, nor pensioners, nor the environment are fundamentally interested, but only their personal interest and protection of their own business. Secondly, because they don't have politics, they don't have a program, they don't know what state policy is, because they're politicians, they're petty political squires, who only know how to run a policy so the neighbors die. They don't care if they're slaughtering ox for a kilo of meat, just to get their hands on the authorities, because that's the only way they're in power, they know they're running a business, they're getting rich on the backs of the people. But I won't spend any more on them. I want to take the opportunity to invite Serbian citizens to come out on Sunday 16 January for a referendum on constitutional changes and round up yes. It's a good decision for Serbia. In this act, we, this generation of politicians, want to eliminate any speculation that politics, legislative and executive authorities are interfering in the judiciary. With these constitutional changes, the judges no longer have to fear whether they will be re-elected after the trial period, as the trial period is lifted. Also, judges and prosecutors will no longer be elected by the National Assembly, but by the profession. You know, Dragan Markovic Palma made a good comparison today -- the situation in the judiciary is like football, who loses a football match is a guilty judge. And in the trial, someone has to lose, and then he's the most frequently blamed judge. With the success of the 16 January referendum, judges are becoming truly independent, prosecutors are independent and all these speculations will no longer have any basis. Constitutional changes are related only to and exclusively to changes in the judiciary and are aimed at ensuring a greater degree of independence of the judicial function holders. But let's get back to today's topic. For JS, really young people are the law, like I said. They're our future and everything we do, we do for that future of ours. That is why the JS parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12018	I thank the honourable People's MP, Life Starčević. The next is the representative of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary club, Mr. Muamer Bačevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12019	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, MPs, the MPs, many things are resented by this government, much is resented by this coalition, of course, mostly, unwarranted, but one thing is not questionable. Everyone admits that this government and this government did an extraordinary thing at economic level and managed to stabilise the finances of this country in an extremely difficult time, and that seems to me to be the most important thing in politics, because real politics can't be anything to another economy maid. Only those leaders and only those authorities who manage to maintain the economy raise it to a higher level, show great political knowledge and serious responsibility to their people and their country. I am pleased that today we are still bearing fruit and successful economic stabilisation, and I thank my colleague, the previous speaker who spoke very nicely of young people and reminded me that my end is the youngest end of this country, and I agree with you, every attention to young people means to them. They are the basic potential of our country and surely this 100-euro grant will mean to them. Perhaps some journey, perhaps some book, perhaps some investment in your knowledge, is certain that they will use this money productively and in the right way. I underline, indeed Sandzak is a place that boasts and we always boast that we are the youngest, not only in this country, but probably in Europe. It is the development potential of this country and it is extremely important at the moment when people are fighting for labour. When we do not have workers, today in serious developed countries, the main problem is the lack of labour, and that is the most important problem with us. Believe me, my end can be an engine and it should be the engine of this country's development. I have to look back at these recent events, me as someone who insists on this trip and who represents an option that advocates the full inclusion of Bosniaks in this country's life are greatly affected by the unloved scenes we could see for Christmas and New Year's holidays. Making one team and making something positive is very difficult. It is much easier to undermine, as our people say - winning takes 11 players, and only one irresponsible is enough to cause all the trouble that everyone gives from players and teams and all the others who prepare one team, only one is enough to do great damage and cause loss and cause, once again I repeat the damage that is great. The area from which I come must be the development potential of this country, because the Bosniaks of that region show their highest loyalty to this country and because these people I belong to are very patient and very tolerant and deserve to be respected. The unfavorable event that took place in Priboj is the defeat of all of us. It shows us how fragile it is that one condition we build and cultivate these inter-human, inter-national, inter-religious relationships. Indeed, it was a kind and relaxing message from the president who answered immediately and immediately brought down the tension and immediately sent the message that we send daily and which he sent both to Pazar and Sjenica, that Serbia is the state of all its citizens and that they all have the same rights and obligations in it. I ask for no less than the Constitution and the law of this country sanctioning these people. First of all, I mean cops. That's special, specific. So much damage was done to this country by such an act that it was incredible. People who are in charge of security and maintain peace and security in one country, even border crossings, allow themselves something like that. I am pleased that their suspension has been announced and, of course, as chairman of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights, I will closely monitor it, as in yesterday's decision and the commission formed by the MUP, where it has been indicated that there has been a disturbance of their rights, it has been pointed out that they will be sanctioned and a complete case is handed over to the prosecution, because this case must also have a criminal epilogue. Clearly, there has been a direct threat to the Criminal Code, namely that people have been insulted on a national, religious or any other basis. I am very happy and welcome tomorrow's visit to the President of the State in a direct conversation with people, with citizens, with religious communities, with representatives of religious communities, with political actors will certainly relax this situation and I hope that it will never happen again in these parts again. I think that religious communities, since most often these excesses, these sparks happen during religious holidays must be more aggressively treated and more actively involved in preventing and criticising such events, I must say, unforgiving events. In his Christmas emissary, the patriarch of the Serbian Porphyria reminds us of the great words of the prophet Isaiah who says – melt your swords into plowshares, isn't that the message that we are constantly doing here, to start our country, to forget about the conflicts and all the ugly things that have been happening much less, and he called on the believers to open the door and windows of their hearts for love, for charity, for peace, that is to open their hearts to other people, that is the message that we lack. These are the messages we need. In one of the most contented aetas of the Koran, or Koran quotes, says gentlemen – about men, God commands you justice and kindness, gentlemen have no faith without good deeds and I order you to maintain good inter-neighbors, family ties, that is obligation, that is the obligation of every Muslim. It is He who forbids you from evil and evil, and from evil, and from violence of all kinds, and from the Lord warns you to remember, calling you to reflect. Messages and other beliefs, great monotheistic beliefs are the same because they come from the same source. They call for love, a brotherhood, a life together. It's something we all have to insist on together. Of course, there is no education in the family, no state without two things – punishment and rewards. We should reward those who lead to an improvement in international ties, commend all those things that are really much, and always punish those who want to violate this harmony strictly and publicly. It's the only way for the good relations of all citizens of this country. I am once again glad that we managed to stabilize the epidemic in a difficult time, once again I say, our economy and we have enough money to help this directly. I am glad that in the budget, we have really foreseen significant increases in the coming year for the salaries of all employees and, of course, pensioners, an increase of 5.5%, doctors and social workers where I belong, 8%. It's a big deal. It's a big deal for people who live off their incomes and who are honorable and worthy citizens of this country. In the end, I want to look back on a future referendum that is very important to all citizens. Our commitment to the EU has no alternative. I ask the question to all those who undermine this referendum. Digging Serbia's European path, where would Serbia go if it wasn't this time? Where could that go? The supreme interest of all citizens is that we are taking a major step in this direction, the most developed countries of the earth's pattern, especially for minorities. I call on all minorities to come out and round up – yes, for a change of the referendum, for a change in the independence of our judicial system and for a big step towards the EU, because I will remind you in the Action Plan at point 23, this step is envisaged and perhaps one of the most significant steps and we need to take it. In this regard, I call on all citizens to come to the 16th referendum in order to advance and develop our country and to round up – yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12020	I thank the esteemed Dr. Bačevac. He is the next representative of the SVM parliamentary club, Honorary MP Zoltan Peck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12021	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us the Law on the Temporary Register of Citizens of the Republic of Serbia from 16 to 19 years of age, which pays cash assistance to alleviate the effects of the Covid 19 pandemic caused by the SARS-KOV-2 virus. So all citizens of the Republic of Serbia from 16 to 19 years of age are receiving this financial aid. In fact, natural persons who, until the day of the law or the entry into force of this law, who are 16 years old and have not yet completed their 30 years of life, are receiving this financial aid. Of course, they should have other conditions to get this financial aid. It is that they have a residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, a valid ID card and, of course, not everyone, but only those citizens, those citizens who appear or apply for this financial assistance. The finance ministry is making up and running this citizen register. The basic data required of citizens, which are applying for this assistance, is of course the name and last name, the unique home number of citizens, the number of valid ID cards, the number of current accounts if they have been opened in any business bank operating in Serbia's territory. If a citizen does not have an open jury account in business banks, then they are opened a special dedicated account at the Post Office of Belgrade, or at the bank they will indicate, or in which bank they want to raise assistance. The opening of this special account, the keeping of accounts, payments, payments or the possible transfer of funds from this aid account is done free of charge by the bank, means no compensation. The application for financial assistance is from January 15th to 22nd of this year and is done electronically through the Treasury Office portal. The finance ministry in co-operation with the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government is checking whether the applicant is listed in the parent book. The second check is in co-operation with the Ministry of the Interior, the same data accuracy is done for free, about residence and the number of ID cards, whether all the data entered is correct. Of course, there is also a check on the delivery of the giro-account opened at the business banks. As I said, the citizen who did not have an open account will open a special dedicated account at the Post Office. After raising or transferring these funds from this dedicated account, these accounts will be shut down at the Post Office. Business banks are obliged to inform their clients about the payment of financial assistance, whether via text messages or e-mails, it already depends on the business bank, but they have to inform their clients. So 100-euro cash aid is paid in dinar amount at the current mid-euro rate on the day of the law's adoption. Juvenile persons, meaning 16 to 18 years old, can raise this financial aid on their own in banks where they have an open jury account or at the Post Office where they will be opened a special purpose account. To those persons who have other reasons than underage, for their business incompetence, their parents, guardians, legal agents can raise this financial assistance. As we have read in this law, the law enters into force the next day since the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". In the end, the MPs of the Duke Hungarian Union will vote for this law, because we think it's fair that young people get some help from the state and some benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12022	I thank the honourable People's MP, Zoltan Peck. He is the next representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's Parliamentary Club, the distinguished MP Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12023	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, respected ministers, Serbian citizens, are on the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on the Temporary Register of Citizens of the Republic of Serbia from 16 to 29 years, which regulates the way in which money aid is paid to mitigate the effects of the Covid 19 pandemic caused by the SARS-KOV-2 virus. Who knows which time in a row, it seems to me that you've spoken for the third time I think we have one package of measures, though, for the first time for citizens 16 to 29 years old. Somewhere my biggest fascination is just that. That is why I will first address this category of young people, young people of 16 years of age who, apart from wanting as a state, as a government, as a Assembly to support them in one specific way, we want to show them that we believe in their maturity and in their assessment that, above all, they will spend those 100 euros that they will receive as aid. Why am I saying this? If I'm not mistaken, you've had some poll that suits you how they'll spend their 100 euros. There were very nice answers, even some announcement that someone would propose to their girlfriend thanks to the 100 euros. These are all the nice moments that are in favour of what the state of Serbia has been doing over the past year, the Serbian Parliament in this mandate, the Government of the Republic of Serbia to which we have shown confidence, which is that we believed in young people and really wanted to support them. This is the first session in this year with a very nice and very important topic, I would say, but I will also remind you that in the last year, we ended a meeting with a very important law that primarily concerned young people, which is the Family Support Act with children, which brings new support measures, which is a kind of support for all those young people who have yet to choose to be parents, regardless of whether they have student status or with an emphasis on having additional advantages as students. So nothing is new when it comes to the policies of the government of the Republic of Serbia and, at all, this ruling majority and this assembly call on us to deal first and foremost with that young generation of which the future of all Serbia depends. I know there will be critics on the subject of this, and I guess, although I haven't followed in which direction it goes, there are now those who care, who explain that this is a political move, that this is the last intention or whatever. I'm sure this is just motivated by the fact that we're all first of all mature and responsible people in this room, and it seems to me that the largest number of MPs in the year is that middle, which is 35 plus. Here, my colleague Bane is waving his head - there's nothing for us. There is no and that is the point, that we should be responsible for our children, because a good percentage of us already have children who will be able to apply for these 100 euros. It was actually, I think, a tendency, or I'm convinced that it is, you'll correct me if I'm wrong, and that's to show that one parenting relationship of the state towards its young generation that really needs to traverse some new ways. What is another important message that these young people must never forget? It is that they must never agree to a less responsible state attitude towards them. No matter how governments change, how some elections end, let this be a rapper. Let this period, first of all, of the pandemic Kovid 19, which is not small, last for two years, we almost forgot how we lived before all these measures and restrictions that have been imposed on us, let this be a model for you to realize that you must never agree to any less, that you must not agree to a relationship that you are anyone's only statistical data. It's the scariest thing of all that some generations, to whom I may belong, have lived at some point. We lived the fact that we are statistical data, that we have been abused for the sake of anyone's personal interests, that in the absence of complete information, we have been manipulated. I don't think that as a generation we weren't able to recognize the kind of manipulation, but I think at some point, promising us who knows what kind of grace the moment we first gave up ourselves, which I must admit, at some point we chose to do, however, that grace was missing. This is what makes this ruling majority, I would say, decide that these young people really have one self-awareness on how important they are, how important they are, and how much we care about them in these moments that I suppose are the hardest thing for them, primarily because of the fact that we were forced to behave as well as socially, which is atypical to the people of Serbia, because we are a warm people who like to socialise and gather. I kept talking about how most likely in the past two years we've been missing what we're used to, which is that we embrace each other warmly when we meet. We had to change the way we acted. That probably wasn't so hard in the West, but in Serbia, it is. You've been talking about the value of this help, and I'm not going to repeat the numbers you've been talking about. They talked about how important it is, how young people will recognize this responsible attitude of the state, especially towards difficult times. It seems to me that today we are back in some wave that is not naive at all, that the number of infected is growing more and more. In that sense, support for colleagues who are currently positive for the coronary virus. I really wish you all a quick recovery, to get back to work as soon as possible in full capacity. It's important to say that these young people, this morning, seem to me, have been listening to some report on what the figures are, and it seems to me that the category that is the most endangered and the most numerous in the case of the number of infected at this point is exactly 18 to 49. It means that it is a completely justified move that you have made, Minister, both as Minister and as Government of the Republic of Serbia and ultimately as a state. It absolutely leaves no space for us as MPs to interpret this in any way, except as one positive measure. And in this room sits not a small number of people who belong to this generation who are treated with this law and I'm glad about it. With what I expect, in the follow-up discussion, we'll hear how that sounds from their angle, how they've experienced one of these kind of help. Because I think it is important to explain to his generation why they were sitting in Serbia's parliament. I suppose we are all responsible enough at some age, but that the presence of all of you has been a serious inspiration, because in the past year, as much as you've all been criticised in one way or another, you've shown how much one young man can contribute if he's brave and determined, he's going to commit himself primarily to improving his generation's life. I, despite all the criticism, really congratulate you from the heart. So, the package of measures ahead of us, I hope we no longer have reason to bring any new law, any new package, but my hope is one thing, and reality is something else. I'm sure as a state we'll recognize if we come to a situation where we have to help again, whether it's citizens or business. We're used to it somewhere when we get this bill, I think it's no longer interpreted, so it's hard to talk about. We've explained exactly who has the right, but I think she's missing the definition, so, ministers, in the follow-up session when you judge that you should, maybe once again tell me who these young people are who are supposed to be getting help, which way, first of all, I'm talking about the category of young people who are 16 years old, who just got or should get ID cards, which is where I think the most dilemma occurred, or I had at least the most questions on the subject. So once again, if you don't mind, it's still your package, so we don't explain. We will certainly support the bill, with pleasure, and I stress exactly that once again, and that is that, my dear young people of the state of Serbia, do not ever agree to less than 100 euros, but to less than respect for you as the most important categories of society and the state of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12024	Thank you. Commentary, Minister Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12025	Thank you very much. Now let me clarify that question you asked. So we've got a lot of questions on that subject. The first step is to vote on this law. The second step is to publish this law in "The Official Messenger". This law enters into force the day after the publication of the "Official Messenger", we will see what date it was on January 13th or 14th. So until that day, anyone who has turned 16 has the right to receive 100 euros in aid. Also, anyone who turns 30 from that day on has the right to receive 100-euro assistance. So we're going to see what that date is going to be, so it's in a day or two or three, but it's a cut-off date and, after all, I've been on my Instagram profile and answered those questions multiple times, so I think we're taking it slow, but we certainly managed to clear that up. What you mentioned, and I'm glad you mentioned, so the reactions are really phenomenal. The young people responded so that someone would buy shoes, someone would pay the summer war, someone would pay the exams, one even said they'd propose to the girl, so there are dozens and dozens of examples of how young people would use that money, which tells you two things. One thing is the vindication of this kind of help. So that money enters our economy, that money enters our economy, the young will spend that money. So, we will get that money back in the budget through the collection of value added tax, at the same time supporting business activities in our country, which is exactly the goal of all the direct assistance we have been giving to the citizens of Serbia so far. On the other hand, this also shows the responsibility of our economic policy, the care we show for those for whom we care and need it most. One is our pensioners, and we will help them with 20,000 dinars in February, but also, we do not want to forget our young, young, young people on whom the future of this country rests. When they ask me why we're adopting budgets, why we want our economy to grow, why we're building new hospitals, schools, factories, highways, just so you young people can find their future here in Serbia. This is, in my opinion, a phenomenal gesture, economically absolutely justified, aimed at those on whom our country's future rests. Otherwise, if you'll allow me, honourable MPs, I'd take the opportunity, we're all kind of talking about helping packages what we've done for our economy and for our fellow citizens, but I'm not sure we remember how it all went. I'll only take a few minutes. So, our first aid, if you remember, when the pandemic Kovida-19 started, somewhere in March of 2020, so we immediately reacted and paid off all of our oldest citizens 4,000 dinars. So that was the first measure we did, at the same time we also increased all health care employees by 10%. We said, this is the first measure to support those we thought were the most threatened at the time, to be able to buy vitamins, medicines, etc., and to support the health sector that was already going to have a major impact in terms of patient reception and the large amount of work they had on account of the herds. Then, here I will read to you, we have paid all three minimum earnings, full minimum earnings for the private sector, entrepreneurs, micro, small, medium-sized enterprises, over a million employees in 2020, delayed the payment of taxes and profits for three months, delayed the payment of income tax for the second quarter of that year, gave and provided favourable loans of two billion euros through a guarantee scheme, all two billion euros our businesses used. Again, these are loans guaranteed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia if they do not return and that is what enabled our private companies to come to money and to survive the 45 days that we had a lokdown, or closing our economy, through the appropriate level of liquidity and support from banks. We provided, if you remember, 200m euros in favourable loans through the Development Fund and in 2020 we paid 100 euros each to our country's full-time citizen. So it was the first time that the state helped in such a direct way to our fellow citizens. If you remember, over six million Serbian citizens have applied for this aid, a fully justified aid, which at that time also allowed us to maintain the level of economic activity. In 2020, despite the Kovida-19 pandemic, we had only a minus 0.9%, in terms of reducing our economic activity. We also provided 2.6 billion dinars in 2020 to help farmers and paid 90,000 dinars for so-called. Autonomous artists, too. So we have fully shown how strong our public finances are, how stable and how responsible economic policy we wanted to save every job, every factory, every employee, especially those who were the most vulnerable – entrepreneurs, micro, small, medium-sized enterprises. That was 2020, April of the month. Then we said, well, here, in autumn 2020, the pandemic Kovida-19 continues, what else can the state do to help the economy and citizens? Then we decided to re-pay 60% of the minimum earnings in a two-month period for entrepreneurs, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. After that, we decided to extend the tax and contributions to another month, so we said, let's help the sectors that are the most vulnerable, therefore, tourism and hospitality. We paid 1.2 billion dinars for city hotelers, if you remember, 350 euros per bed, 150 euros per room, and then we paid another full minimum salary for all the employees of the catering, hotel, tourist and rental agencies, one-time aid to pensioners of 5,000 dinars, financial assistance to sports clubs of 1.1 billion dinars, and then in November 2020 we paid all the health workers once again for 10,000 dinars, in the same way that we will pay this 14th January. So only when I read and share with you all these things that we did in 2020 tell you how seriously we took this pandemic Kovida-19. Of course, the results aren't missing. I'll talk about it in the end. Then we said, we came and entered the year 2021, it's still going on, Kovid-19, and there's still a pandemic of the coronary virus, a state stable, strong, there's money. We said – we will continue to help our economy, we will continue to help the citizens of Serbia, so we have paid three times 50% of the minimum earnings for three months again for entrepreneurs, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, over a million employees received the aid. Then we paid for the two minimum earnings additionally for the employees in catering, tourism, renters and tourist agencies, again aided city hotels with 350 euros per bed and 150 euros per room, and then found that bus carriers were also at risk and helped them with 600 euros per bus over a six-month period last year. After that, we said, it is necessary to support the citizens of Serbia in order to ensure this full level of productive, or economic activities, so, if you remember, we paid 30 euros in May, then 30 euros in November, then 20 euros in December, so we paid 60 euros for all those who were registered at the unemployment bureau in September, so with 50 additional euros we also supported all of our oldest citizens, all of our pensioners, so we paid 100 euros for all those living in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, 200 euros for all those living there who did not have a job at that moment. When you look at all these measures and these amounts that I don't forget too two full minimum earnings we also pay for all the independent artists. We paid off everything that was necessary, extended the guarantee scheme with another 500m euros, etc. So when you look at the total amount that's 1.025 billion dinars. So, 8.7 billion euros, 18% of our GDP is the state of Serbia, not to include three brand-new hospitals that we've built. The money we've given to equip a large number of other general hospitals, health homes, respirator procurement, vaccine procurement, the purchase of all the medicines we've had both the first or one of the first in Europe. So, at the time of the biggest economic crisis caused by the health crisis, we have shown how justified the reforms that President Vukic started since he was Prime Minister in 2014, showed how stable we are and showed how strong we are and showed responsibility for our economic policy towards those who need our help most. I don't know if there is a country that has reacted in such a way to such an extent as Serbia did. And, then look at the result, 7.5% of the growth rate of our economy last year, the share of public debt in GDP 56.8% far below 60%, which is the level of the Mastricht, and if some have accused us of borrowing the country, I don't know how, gentlemen dear, the public debt ratio at the central level and GDP is 56.8% or close to 60% which is the level of the Mastricht, and many stronger and more developed countries are far above that level. We have 182.2 billion dinars in our account today. Completely liquid despite the payments of all these aids and despite helping everyone who needs our help, because we take care of every dinar, we are responsible for it. Dear MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we have never singled out any more money for highways. At this point, we're building 10 highways and fast cars. The vaccine factory ends, we'll have the only vaccine factory in the region. We've done three hoves of hospitals, here's the Serbia Clinical Center here in Belgrade, general hospitals are being built throughout Serbia, schools are being built, factories are being built. We had, as President Vukic said last year, 3.9 billion euros of foreign direct investment, not those like some praised in 2007 when it was the sale of Mobtela Karicov and I don't know how and what Miskovic sold that "Maksi" etc., it was not a foreign direct investment. We are talking here about last year, about the hardest year, or one of two, so 2020, 2021, when the economy is concerned with Serbia has shown precisely because of these aid packages, precisely because of responsible economic policy, precisely because of a statement by President Vukic on Serbia as a factor of peace and stability in the region. That we believe that we are credible is why we do not give up any foreign investor to enter our country, the factories are opening up, or the work on new factories begins. You have a third quarter last year, unemployment rate 10.5%. We avoided that black scenario that you had the opportunity to see in much larger and more developed countries where millions and millions of people were out of work, closed factories, closed production plants. I was just saying a little while ago to help entrepreneurs of micro, small, medium-sized enterprises of the guarantee scheme, paying minimum earnings, postponing taxes and contributions, all that led to us saving our economy, and here I am talking about the first quarter of 2022. Only Serbian citizens to see there has been continuity since April 2020. So, for the past two years, we have been helping our economy continuously and continuously Serbian citizens together to mitigate the negative consequences of Kovida-19. And they tell us it's the people's money you're sharing. Well, that's right, unlike those people's couples who put private pockets in their own private pockets, we return these people's money back to the people, help our citizens to cope with this crisis that was caused by the pandemic Kovida-19. That's all I wanted to point out. There are a lot of things we've done, never more money, and in 2022, we won't single out for capital investments. So 486 billion dinars. We continue aggressively to invest both in sewers and wastewater treatment plants, recycling centres and facilities, and hospitals, and new roads, all that raises the quality of life of Serbian citizens, not forgetting and increasing wages, minimum earnings and increasing pensions, which is our policy year by year and which directly contributes to the rise of Serbia's standard of living, and indirectly and rates, the high growth rates of our GDP, as we had last year, as we will have in this 2022. Thank you very much and I apologize if I took a little more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12026	There's no excuse, thank you for your comment, Minister. Let's move on. Representative of the Legislative Club Aleksandar Vucic – For our children, the Honored Dr Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12027	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, to resort to this discussion, however, it is important who makes the Serbian government and which politicians take responsibility for the country's leadership. We all forgot what it looked like in 2012 and we forgot that people worked for 15,000 to 17,000 dinars was a minimum personal income. We forgot what the average salaries were at the time and how much the pensioners were hugging for it and having some kind of instability when it came to their monthly incomes, which we call pensions, and at the time they were at the social aid level. What's important is to say that the economy simply didn't work at the time. Now we have an economy that works and all the challenges that exist, we have as a country an adequate answer. So, this bill relating to a youth register that will be able to go from 16 to 29 years to 30, that is 29 years and 364 days, from the date on which this law comes into force, will have the right to support a state equivalent to 100 euros. It's actually a legal basis in the Constitution, with Article 97 points 6 and 7. Those rights were not used by those who led this country until 2012. That's what you ministers said, that we from the budget approve the funds we give to different target groups. We received the most criticism, if you remember from the Fisklano Council why it is given to everyone 100 euros and that this measure simply does not contribute to economic growth and development, but they said give to certain target groups that need it most. Well, at this point, we think that a target group called young people has just not been covered by any measures and support. What's most important, I think for the first time now we have a target group of 16 to 18 years, these are minors who have not been identified so far when it comes to any kind of help to young people. It's of great importance that I think that for the first time the state has shown, it simply took the obligation to care for certain target groups in an adequate manner. This is why I think that today young people, there they are, this target group is from one million forty to fifty citizens of Serbia, have recognised that the state simply cares for them. The reason why we are introducing this law and this measure today is to mitigate the economic consequences of the pandemic, but today we still have some challenge that Serbia is fighting in a certain way and obviously very successfully, and that is also the energy crisis, that is, inflation growth. We show that, through these measures, I respond adequately, and that means that the results we achieved last year simply guarantees the results in this year's budget. Why? We responded to all these challenges in the past year with 18 new factories, with 6 more cornerstones, which has been more than 250 new factories since the end of 2012, and in 2013, respectively. Last year, more than 11,000 new jobs were opened when it came to only these factories, and not to say, it means that we repeat these economic results of 7.5% of GDP growth, when it comes to 3.9 billion euros of foreign direct investment, and from those three billion at the time of the pandemic year, that is 6.9 billion euros, when we look at the last two years, which shows essentially that Serbia is progressing at a high rate. So, if we are second to the country when we look at all the countries of the European Union and the region, we really have reason to be satisfied and that satisfaction and that optimism you are actually giving us a proposal as a government to share with the citizens of Serbia. In addition to all those measures that will go to pensioners and certain other target groups in February, young people are now simply getting a special focus on this year. I think that everyone should say that improving the social situation of young people from 16 to 30 years of age actually gives great importance that the economy with all its results wants to share and want to give, supports Serbia's prosperity and, most importantly, that young people who want to leave Serbia simply change their decision somewhere. The answer to the full policy towards the youth of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia in the last five years, and I will also indicate what measures these were, in fact, the result that from October 2020 to October 2021, 92,300 people returned to Serbia. Of these 92,300 people are certain that 20% in this part, if not more than 16 to 30 years and this shows in fact the result of the work and of all the procedures and laws and measures adopted by the governments of Ana Brnabić and Aleksandra Vukic. Why are we talking about what the results are? We should turn to what the state has done when it comes to young people so far. First of all, the laws we have passed, I will remind you in this assembly, are also related to the process of digitisation and innovation and we had some proposals almost in December. What Mrs. Brnabić said was that digitisation as the most important catalyst was not only innovation, but also competitiveness and growth in the economy proved in fact to be one of the pillars of the country's progress, and it was its programme in 2016, of course and now in 2020, simply made it possible for this one investment cycle that started then and through innovation and through IT exports actually to take major steps forward. Why? In the past year, we surpassed exports from the IT area and innovation and exports of start-ups that were opened in Serbia. Exports are bigger than exports of agricultural products and this shows in fact which way Serbia is going. He simply wants us to turn that part of the real sector investment that we have now made into a growth of the real sector economy into the knowledge sector, that we are simply exporting our brains as much as possible, but in this final exports in terms of concrete exports such as software, such as all that is the result of innovation are mainly young people's carriers, and they are mostly people who are simply based on their education and based on their ability to entrepreneurship are able to produce a finished product that will be truly adequate for the market of developed countries. The state has passed laws relating to full digitisation of business from registration of small and medium-sized enterprises to the fact that they have certain tax benefits and these tax benefits are particularly for investment activities at the level of salaries related to salaries for investment operations below 150,000 dinars for 36 months are meant to be released completely and, when it comes to young farmers and entrepreneurs, they amount to a full exemption for net wages below 37,000 dinars. I'll remind you of certain 30 percent tax credits for innovation when it comes to starting apps. The state called certain competitions in which it allowed young start-ups to raise a loan of up to 100 million dinars for two years, means 50 million per year and easier employment as an incentive in terms of also 70% tax and contribution in 2020, in 2021. 65% and 2022. 60%. Thus, we have come to have this faster and easier employment and self-employment, but what is most important, which has made it possible for the state to nostrify foreign diplomas faster. So, the result is exactly the support for young people when it comes to dual education and we talked about it years ago, but we also have this part that concerns youth entrepreneurship, or even the Economic Forum of Youth, held in the year a platform called "Young Entrepreneurs' Fair" online platform that brought together more than 50 young entrepreneurs who, based on examples of their good practices, practically promoted Serbia on this path to entrepreneurship. This is what the Serbian Chamber of Commerce recognized, and on January 18th last year it opened a particular section called - to support young entrepreneurs, in addition to supporting women's entrepreneurship five years earlier. What is important is to say that the Chamber of Commerce has established this co-operation with the Mozambique funds, it is a regional platform that has supported over 40,000 members and our young entrepreneurs are indeed regionally linked to all other entrepreneurs in the region and, of course, they can withdraw certain credit lines from these regional funds, which the EU also supports. It is important that Serbia has this roof youth organisation and it has done research and says that 20% of the total number of businesses make up young people in Serbia, and they are owners and entrepreneurs and owners of business entities, which shows essentially that this percentage will go higher and higher, because I will remind you, at a time of unemployment of 26%, during the time these experts led Serbia, such as Gilas and his team, then over 50% of young people were unemployed. Today when the rate of 9.5% unemployment is, 20% are unemployed young. Serbia is actually seeking to facilitate the lives of all these young people, we are now talking about young people from 16 to 30, who are studying, who are finishing schools, or who have finished schools, so they need to find certain jobs and start their careers. There are also those who are able to possibly by the age of 30, have already started their careers and are doing it successfully, but should simply put the focus on young people as a society, and I think that you are doing it with this bill and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, thanks to Mr Vukic, who eventually and politically started all of this and within our SNS, in fact wanted to be the first to set an example of how we should behave, to young people who are supposed to carry the economy and politics of this Serbia tomorrow, and who we really need to leave behind, for the future, and that is what we are actually giving as a country of good answers to the challenges that Serbia faces as well as all countries in the region, and also in the EU. So this is a topic of all themes, the question of young people should not be politically divided, should unite us, just as the theme of the Constitution should unite us. We want depolitisation when it comes to youth issues, when it comes to depoliticalising the subject of justice. For this reason, when we talk about the Constitution and constitutional changes, it is up to us to really invite the citizens of Serbia to respond on Sunday to the state's call to change the Constitution in the work of the judiciary and to say that we want politics to come out of many issues in society, because we want Serbia to make progress, regardless of how and who will make the assembly majority here in parliament. It is obviously important in Serbia who leads the country and how. The Serbian Progressive Party, led by Aleksandar Vucic, has shown that it is indeed taking responsibility for the conduct of foreign and internal policies and how important it is to move forward with huge steps, in order to develop society. This development of society obviously cannot go without the economy and certain measures that were once difficult when we implemented reforms, but they are also good when we now have ways and opportunities to support Serbia's future. That's why I think it's very important that we support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12028	I thank the authorised representative of the parliamentary group "Alexander Vukic - For Our Children". The word has a finance minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12029	Thank you very much. Let me get this straight, Mrs. Tomic, to what you were talking about. One of the most important categories, if I may put it this way, is the citizens of Serbia who rest on the future of our country, young ones. I agree completely with you that it should not be a dispute over how they should be helped in every way, to find sufficient reason to stay in their country and to make their dreams come true here, not in some Canada, U.S.A., Australia, etc. I'm not going back to the tax breaks you were talking about, you're absolutely right. So we have passed a whole series of laws, sublegal acts, which we support and promote youth employment in terms of tax cuts, reduction of contributions to their employment, the "My First Salary" programme, which has shown exceptional success, as well as this measure -- the payment of 100 euros. However, what I want to tell you is about the hypocrisy of some people who talk about keeping young people, they need to be given a better and safer future in our country, and then they are somehow against all the measures we are doing. I will tell you, on the basis of my talks that I have with students' associations, it is important for them to have that optimism, that security, that they know better days are coming and that Serbia is already on the verge of high economic growth. They also see new highways, new schools, investments in universities, opportunity to find work, opportunity to earn money. We fight from year to year to increase the average profit and we keep talking, raise wages in the public sector, grow pensions, raise minimum earnings, you said, in 2011, the minimum earnings were 15,700 dinars, as of January 1, this year is 35,000 dinars. Why are we doing this? Because that's how we increase our average earnings in Serbia. They laughed at President Vukic when he said that the average earnings would be 500 euros by December 2019, and then we fulfilled that promise and achieved the goal. We now say -- in 2025, the average salary in Serbia will be 900 euros by December. We open factories and fight for every new investment. Just before I said, 3.9 billion foreign direct investment last year. Well, that's what young people want to see. They also want to see that they live better in our country year after year, that they have the opportunity to find a job, but also to change it, because we have a large number of factories that are being opened, they can go from a lower salary to a higher salary, and that's the competition that already exists on the labour market. In 2012, our country's unemployment rate was 25.9%. Each fourth in Serbia was unemployed, with a rate of 50% of youth unemployment. What idea and desire to stay in Serbia did our young ones have then? Small or nothing. Now, when you have a 10% unemployment rate, when you have the opportunity to choose between jobs, when you see your salary growing year after year, to value your knowledge, your ability, your skills, that's the most important factor that defines young people to stay in this country and to make their future come true here. Then we say all of this - well, yes, we will give additional tax reliefs, relieve the salaries paid to those who are first employed, introduce dual education, which has shown excellent results, and therefore you have a situation that our unemployment rate among young people today is double the size of 2012. What we're doing right now, paying 100 euros, is just another way to show them that the state is counting on them, that we haven't forgotten them and that we're helping them reduce the negative consequences of Kovid - 19. The hypocrisy that I was talking about earlier, when we say that we want to keep our young people, that we want to go with pay raises, they say -- why do you increase wages so much, you're going to jeopardize public finances. Wait, guys, you want us to raise our salaries so that we can give the necessary security and future to our young people, to see them stay here, or you won't? But, well, these are some things we face all the time. After all, it is the responsibility of the Government, President Vukic, on all of you and us here, to deal with responsible economic policy and that this policy has results, and through the rate of growth, through the stability of our public finances, this policy definitely has results. For last, just so I don't forget, once again to rely on what Aleksandra Tomic said, from January 1st, to remind you, the extra payoff, we increased the untaxable share of profits from 18,300 dinars to 19,300 dinars and we also abolished contributions to the PIO fund of 0.5%. That's what we've been doing three years ago. Three years ago, the profit burden was 63%, now it's already below 61%. So, gradually but surely from year to year, we keep our promise and reduce the burden on earnings, just by stimulating the opening of new jobs, the opening of factories, giving young people the opportunity to get a job. We must not forget this, therefore, except for all the things we do and which are aimed at increasing wages, increasing pensions, capital investments in our country, and also one of the promises is tax relief, tax cuts and salary contributions, because that is what we are doing to encourage employment, and we are fighting back for years for every new job, for every new factory, and precisely figures and figures confirm that in terms of the unemployment rate, or employment rate that is never higher in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12030	I thank the Honorable Minister of Finance. Since there are no more presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, we are moving on to the list of speakers. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12031	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Finance Ministers Mr. Mali, dear fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic. I come from Svrlig, it is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. By the way, in the National Assembly, I represent the United Peasant Party, and I have been selected from the list “Alexander Vukic – For Our Children” where I have been working with my colleagues for six, seven years and I struggle to hear the voice of every man living in Svrlig, Beli Palanca, Gajina Han, Prepolje, Novi Varosha. My policy and policy of our Serbian president is that we want every man in our Serbia to live the same way. I, like so far, will support the bill because this is worth something, this is something that gives support to our young people who are 16 to 30 years old, to those who are now in colleges, who can now get some funding, that they can provide themselves with something they may not have planned. The big thing is that our country has stability, which is through a programme that is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which our President of the Republic of Serbia, at a time when he has been Prime Minister since 2014, has funded here. These are all things that are very positive. In this difficult situation, when Kovid is, when the pandemic is Kovida, we as a state, as a system we do extremely well. The Ministry of Health, Education, everything works the best. You, distinguished ministers, at the head of the finance ministry, do your job in the best way, and that's all visible through the program that the government and the state of Serbia gives to every man, whether he's younger, whether he's older, whether he's employed, whether he's unemployed, whether he's retired. Once again, I will support this bill's proposal, with what would be a good thing in the coming period, that in this year, in 2022, we will provide the possibility of providing greater liberation for those municipalities that are undeveloped municipalities, such as Svrljig, Bela Palanka, which are demographically threatened, one of the most endangered. In these environments to increase that tax exemption for profit, for health care, all those taxes that they are now slowly, but surely you are liberating. Once again, I will support the bill because it is good. I expect that we will have the opportunity to provide more resources in the next period for every young man, for every young person and for those who live in areas with difficult living conditions, where it's really a little different to live. Thanks again. Well done, Minister, for doing your job within the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12032	Thank you. The president of the SDPS parliamentary group, MP Branimir Jovanovic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12033	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, honourable MPs, the SDPS will, of course, support today's proposal, which is on the agenda, above all, because we view it as part of an overall package of assistance, so one part of the mosaics that started to come together in the spring of 2020. What's important is that the measures that were taken at that moment were timely, so at the right time. That is why there is no doubt that we will support this proposal, because so far it has proved that any measure that has been taken by the Serbian government, whether it is aid directed directly to citizens or that it is aid addressed to businesses, that any aid has been paid multiple times. Of course, what's most important is that the government of Serbia is also, and we here in parliament have supported such decisions to support, above all, our health system, because citizens' health was first priority, and today is the first. It's important that our health system works in a good way, that we didn't have paralysed health during the Corona, but also what's important is that the economy works. When the pandemic started because of the Kovid virus, the biggest fear was that the economy would paralyze, that no level of economic activity would be maintained. A particular focus was to preserve jobs, therefore, not to close down the factory and preserve that unemployment rate, to be on an acceptable level. I think that today we can realize that we have made a huge success and that this goal, which we set in the beginning, has been fulfilled. What is important, too, is that the government has set priorities at the very beginning, that it has well located those areas where assistance is most needed. The minister spoke earlier about tourism being one of the branches that suffered great losses, not just with us, but everywhere in the world. That's why the help that came to the hotelers was welcome. Also good were those aids that concerned the payment of minimum earnings. In the same tone, I can talk about this help that comes to young people. I think it's a good signal for our young people, that the state thinks of them. Anyway, I think that money that goes into the hands of young people will go back into the system, because by buying some products, they'll pump that money up again, part of the money, into the budget, and in that way, we'll spin one wheel, like we do all the time, and maintain the level of economic activity. In any case, the SDPS will support this measure, as we have done before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12034	Thank you. The word is made by the Vice-President of the National Assembly, National MP Marija Jevdzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12035	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Minister, on today's agenda we have one but very important law, which allows direct assistance to our citizens from 16 to 29 years of age. Reading the proposed law, I see you've been doing a broad analysis of the state during, but also after the state of emergency ended. We have shown that the finances are stable, and that on the other hand, we care for our citizens and that the state is there when it is needed most. There were comments that one-time assistance was planned to be a great cost, but when priorities are defined in time and in the right way, then there is no problem in investing money in the right things, and the real thing is just the proposed law, because this group of citizens, to whom help is concerned, is in the phase of schooling or have just finished schooling. They need more time to get a job, get experience to qualify on the labour market. That's why this financial aid will mean something to them. It is up to us, or the government to preserve the labour market, to work on bringing and opening as many factories as possible, to bring as many investors as possible. And as we could hear from today's presentation of my colleague from the JS Parliamentary Group Life Starcevic, today in Jagodina President Dragan Markovic Palma talks with a representative of Germany's Fisher company about expanding the existing factory, as well as bringing other German companies. I think it's the best help for our citizens, to allow them to work and to support and expand their families with their work. Jagodina, where Dragan Markovic Palma has brought 12 foreign investors, should be an incentive to other local self-governments, to exploit their capacities and not only to wait for the state and government, but to fight for their own city, for their municipality, for their citizens. So, JS welcomes every help to young people. We have shown through our work years ago that young people are the law for us, that young people are our future and that everything we do, we build and make no purpose unless our children are born, if the villages let us go, if the young leave our country. The JS every decision and any assistance the Government of the Republic of Serbia has sent to our citizens and businesses in the pandemic's time has supported and we will always support any proposal that improves the life of an ordinary citizen. Minister Mali also announced on January 14th the aid of 10,000 dinars to all health workers, and that is another way to thank them as a state for every sacrifice they made during the pandemic. The JS also recognized every effort by our healthcare professionals and in the organisation of JS and Dragan Markovic Palma 1,000 healthcare workers flew to Paralia last year and over 300 doctors and nurses stayed in Egypt twice a week. For April this year, it is planned for 140 health workers to fly to Egypt, all thanks to sponsors and good friendly relations between Dragan Markovic and many friends in Egypt and Greece. When I first said that we support the care of young people, because it's one of the postulates of our party program, it's not just empty words. Years back where we have the power to decide, such as in Jagodina, children of the final classes of primary and secondary schools fly to the Montenegrin, or Greek coast, students of the first year of college go to Vienna, where they can see what student life looks like in one of the most beautiful capitals of Europe. I would like to commend that on your Instagram profile you have been available to all citizens to answer all the questions and all the concerns regarding providing assistance to young people, as well as pensioners on February 20th, as well as health workers. It's good to be open, to be there on, to say, reaching out to every citizen, because that's how you show that everything you say, that citizens care is not only clean marketing, but that you really are and that as a representative of the government and that as a government you care about all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, JS supports it. And as I said, we will always support every way to help our citizens, especially when this assistance applies to young people. In voting day, we will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12036	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Dunja Simonović Bratić.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12037	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, is now on the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on the Temporary Register of Citizens of the Republic of Serbia from 16 to 29 years of age, which is being paid for monetary assistance to mitigate the consequences of the Covid 19 pandemic caused by the SARS-KOV virus2. At the very beginning of my presentation, I want to point out the very worrying fact of our long-standing reality, which is that Serbia is one of the countries with the oldest population in Europe and one of the highest rates of youth immigration. According to data from the Republic Statistics Institute, in the period January-November 2021, the number of newborns was 56,648, and the number of deaths was 123,492, which is almost 26,000 more compared to the whole of 2020. This trend of the depopulation has been particularly contributed by the pandemic that we have been facing for two years, which has affected, in addition to its health risks, the increased risk of various forms of domestic and youth violence, so lately, unfortunately, we have been able to hear about peer violence, there have been different forms of domestic abuse and violence that ended with the worst possible outcome. All of this is to be put in the way and put in place adequate fighting mechanisms. It is up to us MPs to provide a basis for further steps by adopting good legal solutions. It is clear that this government and all of us in this room are doing everything possible to enable our citizens to have the best conditions for life, quality living standards, and our economy and economy to maintain and make them strong and stable. Accordingly, there have been more positive measures to help businesses and citizens from the outbreak of the pandemic, to this extent that we are talking about today. It would be good to remind our citizens of the first package of measures to help businesses and citizens who were adopted at a time of emergency worth 5.1 billion religion, which was 11% of Serbia's GDP. In addition to numerous measures of support for detention, part of the package concerned direct assistance to each full-time Serbian citizen of 100 euros. The second package of measures also adopted in 2020 is being added to the previous package and aimed to preserve jobs. It's worth 66 billion dinars, and it involves paying 60% of the minimum earnings in August and September, as well as tax exemptions and profit contributions in one month. These aid packages have totalled 5.8 billion euros, accounting for 12.5% of GDP. A third economic aid package for citizens and an economy worth 249 billion dinars was adopted in February 2021. It refers to direct assistance to the most vulnerable and the sectors most affected by pandemics, entrepreneurs, micro, small, medium-sized and large enterprises, support for the catering sector, hotels, tourist agencies, passenger transport and road transport sectors, as well as one-time cash assistance to citizens and an extension of the guarantee scheme to maintain the liquidity of the private sector. In late December 2021, we adopted amendments to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children. Since 1 January 2022, parents will receive 300 thousand dinars for each firstborn child from the country, and all families who receive a second or third child will receive one-off aid from the state from 100,000 dinars. This is certainly one of the priorities of state policy, given the poor demographic image. Since 25% more people died in Serbia last year in the 10th month compared to the same period of the previous year, we hope that these measures will at least have some impact on the rise of birth and strengthen the family. The common task of the state and local self-government is to measure such policies in line with the specificities of the local environment and to create such conditions in the local community that young people want to stay in their places. Young people are recognised as one of the most endangered categories in our society, especially in terms of first post-school employment and position on the labour market. According to the Youth Act, young people in Serbia represent a category of persons from 15 to 30 years of age. The youth is recognised in a large number of international documents, laws, numerous strategies from different areas and portfolios. On the basis of the 2019 data provided by the Republic Statistics Office, this category accounted for a sixth of the total population. And if most of them live in cities, it's not a small number of those living in rural areas and suburban settlements, about 39%, which is in favor of the thesis I previously presented, and it's about allowing young people to stay, live, work and create their families in the environments they come from. It is our responsibility to work to ensure the basic catches for the life of every young man and create equal opportunities for each of them to develop their talents and build their own success. Accordingly, the SPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the adoption of this bill. At the end of this address, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate all citizens of the Republika Srpska 30th anniversary of their statehood, to wish them good luck and health in the New Year, as well as the strength to endure under pressures that are getting stronger and stronger. It is a big deal and a strong message is that the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Brnabic, and the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Ivica Dacic, together with individual ministers from the government of the Republic of Serbia, attended this jubilee and thus showed symbolically that they were standing together on the defender of all our countrymen, regardless of which sides they were. Unfortunately, we're witnessing the introduction of sanctions in 1992. At that time, members of the Serbian government's economic council, led by academic Ivan Maksimovic, discussed the introduction of sanctions and considered the measures to be taken. What is important and what is seen from the stenographic notes is that they expected the sanctions to last for three months or six at most. We know that these first sanctions lasted just over three years. After all these years of experience, it is important to stress that such measures have never been or have been directed against individuals. It is therefore important to show unity in each place and to be determined to be both for good and for evil, because only one can overcome the challenges that are now being more clearly monitored. Full community support. Long live the Republic of Serbia! Long live Republika Srpska!
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12038	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Bakarec, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12039	Thank you, Your Honors Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am proud to vote today in favour of the Law on the Registration of Young Citizens from 16 to 29, until the age of 30 in fact, which is being paid a 100-euro cash aid to mitigate the effects of the Kovid - 19 pandemic. I am equally proud that the Serbian Parliament, this Assembly, was adopted together on December 29th last year by amendments and additions to the Law on financial assistance to families with children who have been increasing the parental allowance for the first child to 300,000 dinars since January 1st this year. These laws are the fulfillment of, simply, those promises made by President Vukic. The state helps young people who are in school, or who have just finished school. Alexander Vukic said at an annual press conference in the Palace of Serbia that our country lost a lot of people to the crown of the virus and that today there is no one in Serbia who has not lost one of its own. However, he noted that the process did not provide enough care for young people, and he said: "We have forgotten about the lives of those who have certain diseases, our older people, mothers, fathers, grandparents, young people, basics, high school students, young people who have completed schooling that no one has cared about or cared enough about. In his New Year's address to the public, the president announced on December 30th last year and pledged to give state aid to over three million citizens. The president said that without children, there is no future and that the state will invest hundreds of millions of euros in demographics and birth policies. Mothers will receive 300,000 dinars for the first child, 100,000 dinars for the second and third children. For the third child, they will receive an additional 10 years per 100 euros per month. For the fourth child, the mother will receive an additional 10 years and another 150 euros a month. Mothers born to two will receive a one-time aid of 400,000 dinars, or mothers born to three will receive 500,000 dinars of one-time assistance. The state will continue to assist this significant measure, will help women with 10 to 50% of the price to buy less house or apartment, and a million young people under this 16 to 30-year-old law will receive 100 euros once this aid. Health workers will receive 10,000 dinars, pensioners will receive 20,000 dinars and what is important, the president said nicely and Mr. Finance has also repeated this and these are significant data, as far as GDP growth is concerned, we ended up with a 7.5% growth rate last year. We may also be Europe's most successful country because simply Ireland, which is the first, has incomes that are incomparable to any other country because all major multinational companies are practically registered in Ireland, so it has abnormal incomes based on it. So we can consider Serbia to be official in this year and last year will be the country that will have the second largest growth in Europe, and practically the first. Speaking of results, I will remind you that healthcare is one of the pillars of the Serbian state. President Vukic and the government are the most responsible for Serbia being one of the leaders in battle with the coronary virus. I'll remind you, there were three units of hospitals built, reconstructed or reconstructed four clinical centres and 19 general hospitals. All possible vaccines have been obtained, all possible medications. We're producing vaccines. I personally ask the citizens - be vaccinated, wear masks, wash your hands, the vaccines are harmless, painless and free, follow the advice of the doctor. Another important thing to say, because it is important for the citizens and the state, in five days on 16 January of this year, let us all take a referendum on the amendment of the Constitution concerning the judiciary itself and the way the judges choose. I will round up the referendum – yes in answer to the question. It is important that we support President Vukic before the April elections by rounding up the referendum. We want the judiciary to be even more free, it is, of course, always ten years of extreme freedom, but we want to make it even more free and thus ensure that even in theory, we can no longer repeat that yellow destruction of the 2009 judiciary and thus strengthen our support for European integration. The objective of these constitutional changes is to free the judiciary and this little influence of the policy that exists and to comply with EU legislation. This simply means that judges and prosecutors will no longer be elected by representatives of the executive and legislative authorities, i.e. the Government and the Assembly, but by top lawyers. I'm going to recap, and that's important at the beginning of this year, and I'm going to recapture and fake environmental protests, and I'm going to do one comparison. Recently before New Year's, we had huge protests in the Netherlands against epidemics, and in Serbia we also had weak last and last week, and false ecological protests and they showed, both protests, as reportedly Tirana's Serbia and allegedly democratic Holland. What's the difference between Serbia and the Netherlands? Well in the Netherlands today and always the police ruthlessly beat up Protestants without mercy, watch out, trample them with horses, bite them by dogs, water cannons in winter. There is no mercy in the democratic Kingdom of the Netherlands and so does the alleged Democrats, Prime Minister Mark Ruth. In Serbia, false environmental protests, as always, police are lurking Protestants, false environmentalists, and they are blocking roads and harassing citizens. Let's remember that last year in July, the guys in Serbia beat up the police, broke their legs and heads to the cops, hurt as badly as possible 140 of them, trampled on police officers. Serbia is a mother even for those who are wrong like these Protestants. Serbia is a paradise for Protestants and so does alleged tyrant Alexander Vukic. In an attempt, and this is important to paralyze President Vukic's New Year's interview that I mentioned, Dragan Gilas became a broken record, began to spin from year to year from month one and the same lie. In his New Year's interview with Danas, Gilas, imagine, denied the question, or claim by journalist Jasmine Lukac, that he was in power, here I quote, says amnested Gilas -- I don't understand how you think I'm going back to power. As you know, I was the mayor only in Belgrade, not at Serbia's level. Look, where did Gilasu get the urge to directly lie to a journalist and readers, I think he forgot about it through amnesia? My men, he's been Minister for the NIP for two years. It is not, of course, a minister for anything or for nothing, but rather a minister for the National Investment Plan for two years, and he says - I was not a government at Serbia's level. Well, man, you've been the government at Serbian level for two years, and like this, Gilas lied to him, and he kept lying in that interview, because actually that man never tells the truth. I'm also going to recapture the violence data that happened twice before New Year's Eve and after New Year's Eve and no one is judging. Here, the other day, after New Year's Eve, 63 vandal attacks were carried out on SNS premises in Serbia, i.e. specifically in Adice, Novi Sad, and none of the protectors, trustees and so on. The human rights fighter didn't condemn this violence. Vukic and his family are, of course, the main targets, the break-in rooms, and Vukica and his family want to kill and that's what that great movie that Tom Lovrekovic showed on TV the other day with national frequency was talking about. I will recapitulate and draw closer to the end and work of the Serbian Parliament. I am proud that we Serbian Parliamentarians have held 62 sessions since August 2020 and that we have passed 241 laws. By emergency procedure, we have passed 17 other regulations and 159 other acts. Parliament held 131th day with 400 points of the agenda, and I will record in one sentence and my work. I didn't leave one session of the Assembly, I voted for all the laws, I spoke 74 times, this is 75, I sat in the hall nonstop, I worked in and participated in the work of the board, I prepared speeches and texts for the media, I always supported fellow MPs. In short, the final incursion was just announced, the tennis alliance of Australia and the "Australia Open" tournament have just officially announced that Novak Djokovic was officially and became the first winner of the "Australia Open" tournament, and I am proud that the state of Serbia and that all of us strongly supported Novak's fight for justice, and for Christmas, Serbia was circled by one touch that reads like this – so that every Serb could bake a kangaroo for Christmas instead of a pig. I'm done. The law will help young people is one of millions of evidence that Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic is a statesman and father of a new better Serbia. President Vukic raises Serbia, builds Serbia, vaccinate Serbia, cures Serbia, cures the past in the present for the future. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12040	The word has a folk MP, Dr Amela Lukač Zoranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12041	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Minister, resuming the bill that is before us, I have found the following things in the light of the Law on the Temporary Register of Citizens of the Republic of Serbia from 16 to 29 years of age which seemed very interesting to me, and therefore what it has to say and as regards the bill itself. It explained that this law would allow for the mitigation of the economic consequences resulting from the Kovid-19 pandemic, and then also says a continuation of the measures taken, aimed at supporting citizens of the Republic of Serbia from 16 to 29 years of age, aimed at increasing economic activity in creating conditions to improve the social position of this category of persons as an area of general interest in the Republic of Serbia. Also, there are very important items here because we have all agreed together that the category of young people is very important for all of us, very important for our country because it is definitely young that should lead us to a better future. What is missing in this reasoning is an assessment of the financial resources needed to implement the law. It explained that the funds would be provided, i.e. the funds were provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget. I think it was necessary to put the indicative amount that would be needed to implement this very law and simply this whole project. By processing data, i.e. by looking at the reports published by the Republic Statistics Institute published in the annual demographic statistics in the section where population estimates by age and gender were carried out, it is concluded, in conclusion, from 30.6.2022, that out of the estimated population in Serbia, seven million inhabitants totaled between 16 and 29 years of age is a million 62,000 380 members of both sexes. So if we multiply that by the amount that is scheduled to be paid for the state will pay an indicative amount of 106m238m euros. As far as I'm concerned, I find this measure encouraging, that it's good. However, I come from one area where it is thought that young people should not be given everything for granted. I understand that this measure is not great. The amount of 100 euros can't help any of them much, or plan a big trip or anything, but it can help them do something for themselves, or buy a book, as we've heard before, or afford some new clothing and so forth. However, I think it would be very important for these means and such incentives to separate and offer young people with the best creative ideas, best entrepreneurial ideas, not to be wagons, but to be locomotives, to be project promoters, to be awarded funds to them in competitions so that they would just set up their businesses and thus employ exactly the category of young people from 18 to 29 years of age. In this way we would help economic growth, because if we look at how the unemployment rate in the Republic of Serbia stands, this category of people from 15 to 24 years of age, we will notice that the unemployment rate of young people is, let's say, even though we are recording employment growth, but we still have that unemployment rate, let's say 23.1%, and more than that is currently unemployed women, so that the affirmation of young women in the context of employment or the provision of only contributions, i.e. only employment would be of great importance. We also had the opportunity to hear from the board president that the Serbian Chamber of Commerce did a lot when it came to young people, i.e. that it had a number of initiatives through the youth section, which is also commendable, but we should also consider, I apologize, taking into account the fact that these and such projects included a very small number, let's say, specifically in this project there were four young people who were covered. And finally, given that I am running out of time, I really need to look back as a member of the Bosniak people, I need to look back at the events that happened in Priboj and Novi Pazar, and say that I am glad that the Republic of Serbia and that the president of the country will be in Priboj tomorrow, which this state shows and the government is trying to show that this country belongs to all, that it belongs to both the Bosniak people and to the Serb people or vice versa, however you wish. I must look back and say that as someone who was born in Novi Pazar, who is his whole life, and I can say that I am very many and years old, I have spent in good neighbourly relations and in friendly relations with members of the Serbian people and these events are truly absolutely devastating. We had the opportunity to be in Priboj for those who were supposed to be guardians of order and peace, who were supposed to pour security, a sense of security into all of us, we had opportunities to hear the outflows of an absolute nationalism, a call for abuse and murder, which is really embarrassing and terrible. Also, in addition to talking about young people, for me, it is an unacceptable fact, as well as for my friends, members of the Serbian people who live in Novi Pazar, that we have a manifestation of young people who, on a circular course with hoods on their heads, with torches in their hands, sing songs -- for freedom of gold. What does freedom mean, gold? Does this mean that the words of this song can be interpreted in different ways, and one interpretation and message that could be accepted is that this freedom should be without other peoples, that simple ethnicity should be absolutely expressed. I invite all of you, I came from New Pazar today, I came here even though the snow, the malts, was waning all the time, I came to hear me, just as I hear you, I came to be heard by the citizens of Serbia, because to the Bosniaks and other peoples, this is their country. I ask you to really respond to those who are trying to destroy our human relations, our international relations, to prevent them from doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12042	Dear People's MPs, given the sensitivity of the subject, I haven't interrupted you, but keep in mind that the remaining time for your parliamentary group was three minutes, and you spoke six-and-a-half. We're moving on. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12043	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who follow this live broadcast – "Christ is born". This is the most glorious time for us Orthodox people, and this is a time when I don't want to talk about bad things, because in itself it reminds us of good things, of good things, of forgiveness. What I can say about these days was that there were individual excesses that certainly would not endanger the atmosphere and the state of the Bosniak people and everyone else in the Republic of Serbia. So, if we from the Single Serbia are wondering, we continue to call for unity, because that's what we've been doing since the United Serbia was founded. As far as today's agenda is concerned, that's what we're in line with the holidays we're in, which is exactly giving, and it's good that this time they're on the agenda and young. That's all from 16 to 30 years old who are going to get direct help this time. Total aid since the start of this pandemic, which the state has singled out for the citizens, despite the fact that we have had separations and for the economy, major health-separation, large investment in infrastructure, in addition to all these isolations, the government has managed to find nearly nine billion additional ones to share with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You know, we talk about each measure individually, maybe it doesn't seem big or serious, but if you take into account how much of a country we are and if we see what's going on in the environment, this is certainly for every commendation. What's good is that, besides these separations, the government hasn't forgotten about local self-government or cities. So, all of us ministers have succeeded from you, from your government to get additional funding, as well as from those municipalities that haven't developed enough, these funds have meant to them that, at the time of this pandemic, they can keep their system functional and all other developed municipalities and cities, I must also quote Vrnjačka Banja, we are a developed tourist resort, but certainly all the funds that we have received from the Government of the Republic of Serbia have been used to improve Vrnjakka Banja's tourist offer, and I am sure that in the coming period we will return many more because we have created an ambience in which it can be made easier. I can also set a good example of Jagodina, which has a serious industrial zone next to tourism facilities. Why does it matter? Because Jagodina managed to make a serious surplus in a short time. That's exactly the moment when every single one of your invested dinars we make out of the cities, out of the municipalities to get back to the state, and just that wheel that keeps spinning is getting bigger and bigger and bigger. We all need to help ministers, but I always say that we must and above all help those who know how to make two of the dinars, because that help is mutual. What's on the agenda today, and that's a 100-euro payment for all these young people 16 to 30 years old, is that they might be closest to that account of mine that they know how to make two out of the dinars. Certainly most of them, first of all, will remember these 100 euros, because these days just when I talk to them, I see what joy is and what expectations are there. I agree, maybe it's not enough for some amount, but it's a good incentive, and above all a message from the state to think of young people. The JS MP group I belong to will certainly vote for this because it is an integral part of our programme and because it is life, it is not demagogy. Every time Dragan Markovic Palma got into the media, you know what they say – three thousand for a gentleman, two thousand for a lady, etc., that's what many people used to criticise. But here's what's going on, the citizens of this sort of thing accept and every honor to anyone who acts domestically to keep the system functional and to find the opportunity to help the citizens in addition to all these separations. That's what I said in the opening part of my exposure. As far as you personal ministers are concerned, you took over as finance minister and in 2018 you took over a serious resort, it was really hot potatoes at the time, remember those speeches. It seems like some distant history now, but today in 2022 and the last two years, what you've done, there's nothing to flatter you now, we've voted on the budget, nobody's going to get anything here anymore, but you've really given yourself up and it's showing up and it feels. Not only do the budgets arrive on time, that we simply put the financial system of the republicans on their feet, that co-operation with the president, direct co-operation with the president is precisely the result of these nearly nine billion that you managed to give to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia without anyone feeling anything. Every measure we've implemented here, whether it's financial or any other, believe me, I've managed to explain it to the citizens. So, everything about the Ministry of Finance, and it was almost the most, and it was the most beneficial, and it worked best on the citizens, I couldn't possibly explain it to them. Every time they asked me what was going on, so the pensioners had to buy from four in the morning to seven, I still can't explain it today. I know it's not your measure, it's a crisis staff measure, but here, if you have an explanation, I'll be glad that I can make it easier for my fellow citizens. Since time is running out, I would like to say once again that the JS MP group has been for this law since the beginning, and we will certainly vote for it. I will take the opportunity to invite the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to come to the referendum that is ahead of us, of course we do not influence how anyone votes, I have the right and publicly here to say that I will support this referendum, and I wish you ministers all the luck and to continue at this pace to work with such measures to make us more happy here in parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12044	Thank you. The time foreseen for the parliamentary group has been spent. The word has a finance minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12045	Dear Mr. Vujic, just to answer the direct question you asked me. Yeah, that was one of the crisis headquarters measures. I respect all the measures the crisis staff has brought. So that's where our most intrinsic experts from various areas sit when it comes to epidemics, medicine, and I believe they had a reason to bring it. I guess the measure was just to isolate our oldest citizens, to get themselves into stores to get the necessary supplies and not to get in touch with other people, to just try to save their lives. In any case, what is important, apart from worry and what President Vukic was saying at the beginning of another pandemic in 2020, we have two fronts. One front is a struggle for the lives of Serbian citizens, and we have come very responsibly to this, we have obtained vaccines, we have obtained respirators, we have obtained all the medications needed, we have opened up new three homings of hospitals, and through these measures we have tried to protect the most bitter ones, and our oldest citizens have been the most endangered, and they still are, ultimately. On the other hand, the second front was a struggle for the economy and exactly the 8.7 billion euros, or almost nine that you said, were just aimed at protecting and preserving our economy. Just imagine, would it be possible to go back to the path of growth and development at all if we had allowed factories to shut down, if we had allowed people to lose their jobs, to lose their jobs, and if we had said, as we had been in some other crisis in some previous period with some other government, whatever happened, as it was in 2008, the state did not react, mass people were left out of work, factories were shut down. Then it took us years and years to get where we are now, so we have a high growth rate again. So, we wanted a responsible economic policy, big packages in terms of money to ensure that we didn't have the closure of production capacities, that we didn't have the loss of jobs, because after all that, it would take us years and years to get back, and we wanted to avoid it as much as possible, and we managed to avoid it. So it was a set of measures and health and economics that led us to have a 7.5% growth rate in our economy last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12046	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Vuk Mircetic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12047	Thank you. The Honorable President-in-Office, respected ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, on today's agenda is a very important bill of law, which is the proposal for a law on the temporary register of citizens of the Republic of Serbia from 16 to 29 years of age, which pays financial assistance to mitigate the consequences of the Kovid 19 pandemic caused by the SARS KV-2 virus. This is a continuation of the clear indicators of the financial strength that the Republic of Serbia has today. I can freely say that in 2022 for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia began well, it began promising. Since January 1, 2022, as we talked about here, the family for the first child receives 300,000 dinars. Let's remember, in the past, it wasn't that kind of situation. During the rule of the previous regime, the question is whether there was any money at all. There was money for other things, for some of their things private and personal, but not for the citizens. For another child, you get 100,000 dinars, plus everything that's been earned so far. So, 10,000 dinars over 24 months and a five thousand dinar flat, while even for a third child, you get 100,000 dinars and everything you get so far, 12,000 dinars over ten years and 5,000 dinars. This is important to mention because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia because they are in the media today, and I can say a lot of important comments from people who are simply saying the wrong things. These are the facts that you ministers talked about, and we talked about here. These are clearly verifiable things. What is important is that over the New Year period, 100,000 tourists have passed through Belgrade. They spent about 100m euros. When we talked about an increase in wages and pensions, and we talked a lot about it, it is important to mention that salaries in the public sector have increased over 7%, since January 1st, pensions have increased 5.5% according to that Swiss formula we also talked about. For the first time in Serbia's history, the minimum is over 300 euros. Remember, during the previous regime, the average salary was 330 euros. So now we're talking about a minimal guy who's about what she used to be in 2012 was an average salary. The promises you have made and made by President Alexander Vukic and we here are being fulfilled both in the dinar and in the day. It is important to mention that the Republic of Serbia achieved historical results in 2021 when it comes to GDP, as GDP has crossed 52 billion euros. When compared to that year 2012, it is clear that for less than ten years, an additional value of around 20 billion euros is created, as GDP was only 33.7 billion euros in 2012, and that is important. It is also important to mention the total amount of foreign direct investment. He was an incredible 3.9 billion last year. So 3.9 billion we have foreign direct investments. These results show us the responsibility of our policy, the responsibility of the policy led by President Aleksandar Vukic and give us the opportunity to help those who need help most. The total aid the Republic of Serbia has given to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the economics for the recovery of the Republic of Serbia's economy through three economic packages is 8.6 billion euros. A colleague mentioned it, it's almost nine billion euros. On the other hand, it may be interesting to mention the media that are directly controlled by Dragan Gilas, this year has started a little differently. One of the first texts they published was the summation of ten best moves, they say the best moves, the opposition during the previous year. Here, let's remind ourselves what they were doing. They did the same thing more or less. Here, we see attacks on one of the premises of the SNS Committee. A colleague named Bakarec mentioned the exact number. That's an amazing thing. It's a disturbing fact. We're seeing room crash again. We're seeing some protests again. I even talked to the tide about when Vukic, you know, went out and talked to the citizens, and when those environmental problems were solved, I said he'd probably go on, but their theme would be some other, some nonexistent. Here's what the current protests look like, this is the highway. There's even one photograph, and I didn't bring it here now so I wouldn't bother all those who follow this transmission, where you can see a foreign car that can't pass. So you're closing paths where people who have chosen Serbia for some reason, and not some other country to go through and leave their money there. So that's not just the point of what we've lost directly, the point is also what we've lost indirectly. Because, you know, it can happen very easily that more of these foreign people who come and go through Serbia from some other countries don't choose the state of Serbia, but choose another state, because they're not sure if they're 20, 30, and we see here that there are 20, 30, so there are some more, but no one has the right to terrorise minorities over most. More or less, all the protests in all the cities where they were organized went the same way, they had about that kind of people. Here, this is for example. It's a photo from Užica. Why did I take the ropes? Because, you will not believe, a representative of Jeremic's party, the woman came out and said she was not satisfied with the response because she was not satisfied with the citizens and the citizens were guilty because the protests had failed. Imagine how someone can responsibly say that they want to be responsible for politics and then blame the citizens of the Republic of Serbia for their failure. And why were so few people? On the one hand, it's the citizens' fault that they won't, right, and you're ideal, you're doing everything perfectly right. Now, we have to remind the citizens, however, that they know what you've been doing in the past, that they know you'll do the same if you come to power. One part of the people also realized that they had been deceived and what the real subject of these protests was, and the rights of the protest were just to remove Alexander Vukic from power, and the other part of the opposition I guess couldn't come because they were chasing where they could find to buy the uniform of Southampton, it's now popular for you in their ranks and they're probably looking now. Okay, for some representatives of the opposition, such as Marinika Tepic, it will not be difficult for her to find another uniform to add to her collection. While the opposition led by Gilas, Jeremic, Marinic, Tadic and all others who are called the leaders of the opposition, and we note that many of the leaders of the opposition, and somehow by pictures we have seen that there are few oppositions, they have the same policy. Their policy is the hatred that gathers them around President Alexander Vukic, we have violent activities, here, this is your latest violent activity, this is one of the rooms, again one of the SNS rooms this time in Novi Sad, and these activities, what's most interesting, they call emotional spills and creative spills. Imagine someone coming and breaking your window at home and saying, "Well, that's my creative outflow, and I don't know what." Whether it's normal or not, someone else is more interested in the subject. Let's not talk about them anymore, and those things that I find completely unreal and completely unreal, the policy led by President Alexander Vukic is, fortunately, quite different. We show that we take care of our fellow citizens in these moments. Why do I say it in these moments? Because in the last two years he's been fighting a global battle with a pandemic of the coronary virus. What President Aleksandar Vukic said more than once, and, Minister Mali, you mentioned that now, we realized that this was a two-front battle. On the one hand, we have a fight on the health front, on the other hand we have a fight on the economic front. When we remember the very beginning of the pandemic, when far more developed states than Serbia took care and struggled to reach those first vaccines, Serbia, thanks to the good relations of Alexander Vukic both with the east and with the west, managed to solve the problem, and we did not have the problem. We also have five vaccines available today, we have built four covid hospitals. Among the first, we got a cure against the crown. The moment we got it, only Denmark, Lithuania and Slovenia had the cure. Even doctors and medical staff are employed to help this fight, because this is a struggle for the lives of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In December of last year, so some, how nearly two weeks ago, we hired, the Republic of Serbia hired 711 young doctors, medical staff, technicians, etc. We're grateful to them that they've been in the front row for almost two years now. That is why it is important to note that on January 14th, the number of people in the health sector will receive aid from the country of 10,000 dinars. Despite this successful fight in the health sector, we have at no time ignored the fight for the economy and through three economic packages, the Republic of Serbia has helped both citizens and businesses, and the total value is, as we have already mentioned, 8.6 billion euros. And as we know, our pensioners will receive in February and aid from 20,000 dinars. Relatively often with conversations with young people I get the question – and why do you help pensioners so much, what are they so important, why don't you think about us? First, through these packages measures all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is important to mention, they have received a certain amount, they have received help and what is important is to answer that question and here in the tide. Why is the state helping pensioners? Well, because we got this country from them, because they built this country and they realized the heavy measures they were when we started those financial consolidation measures. You, Minister, if I'm not mistaken, said it was therapy that was painful, but it was necessary in one of the brochures issued by the SNS. That is why this year and the 5.5% increase in pensions, despite the financial aid our senior citizens received last year and which they receive each year, with constant increases, will receive the 20,000 dinars in February. But that doesn't mean we don't take care of young people. The bill we're talking about today is about financial assistance for young people. For the first time, we're talking about some law relating to financial aid involving minors. Why do I say that? This law applies to persons from 16 to 29 years of age. And they will all, after the application, so when they apply, have the opportunity, or they will already receive 100 euros from the country on a one-time basis in February. This is an example of the policy led by Aleksandar Vucic, which is an example of a policy where we show in part that we take care of everyone, take care of both the economy and the youth and our oldest citizens. The law itself clearly defines criteria and deadlines, and I will mention briefly. So, as early as February 1st, it starts to pay off to all those who have applied, the criteria are the following. All those who are 16 years old to those who are 29 years old have the right to apply, and the principle itself is very simple. So, leave the ID number, home number, bank choice. If the person, for example, has no open bank account for some reason, can only emphasize what the bank is and then the Republic of Serbia will open the account for him, and he will be able to collect the amount he received with his ID card. In meeting the weekend and the referendum, I think it is still very important for the very end to mention this, I will use my right to remind all citizens of the Republic of Serbia of the importance of this referendum and to repeat again the most important facts. First of all, we have said countless times that the referendum in the domain of the judiciary is only about the judiciary, that the preamble to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is not the subject of this referendum, so that Kosovo and Metohija as such remain an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, territorial integrity does not change, sovereignty is not touched, etc. Why am I saying that? Because again in the media there are certain malpractice comments that say that this is a referendum on everything except what it really is about. And what is it about? It is about the domain of justice. Why is it important to mention this here in the tide? Because he who says otherwise, one, or doesn't know, two, or lies, or three, doesn't care about the truth. Why is adoption of a referendum for citizens of the Republic of Serbia important? First of all, confirming the referendum would mean reducing the influence of political parties on the judiciary, on the other hand, means continuing European integration of the Republic of Serbia, and we all know well that the European path and pathway of European integration is an unambiguous position when it comes to the position of the Republic of Serbia, and the overall procedure that we have implemented as a committee, I am a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislativeness, I can freely say that it was both transparent and inclusive, absolutely every session is located and is available on the YouTube Channel of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, everything is absolutely available, everything is transparent. This way I would ask all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, of course and young, to be informed in relevant places, so that they have relevant facts before they come out on Sunday to express their position on the referendum, that they are not working on social networks, because social networks can find that the referendum on Rio Tinta, which is absolutely not true, is a referendum on subsidies for farmers, which is also not true, therefore, a referendum on justice. The young want to see Serbia progress. Why does it matter? Because if young people look, if they remember in 2012, when the unemployment rate was 25.9%, and there were as many as 50% of unemployed young people among young people, what did they have then? What idea did they have whether to stay or not? What motivated them to stay? Now the unemployment rate is 10%, the unemployment rate among young people is double today. In spite of all this, the Republic of Serbia today gives tax reliefs and introduces dual education and today we are even talking about giving these 100 euros to all young people. This is why today the unemployment rate is much lower than in 2012 and generally among young people. What does that all mean? All that means is economic recovery, that we have bigger investments, because then we can build more. Here I am asking you, Minister, who today in Europe, perhaps in the world, is building 10 highways and fast traffic? Who was able to open over 250 factories where a large part of the factory was opened during the year when factories were closed everywhere? Well, it's President Vukic, President Vukic with his team. Minister, I believe the next policy by President Vukic that the government of the Republic of Serbia has set extremely high goals. Serbia has learned today to win in various fields, not just sports. She used to win both economics and Serbia today was not what it was in 2012, never will be. We live today in Serbia in which the people decide. For all of this, I will support this bill in the voting day, and I am confident that both colleagues and colleagues from the Electoral Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, because this shows how we follow the policy of President Aleksandar Vukic. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12048	Thank you. The word is from the MP Dr Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12049	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, to begin by congratulating everyone's New Year's and Christmas holidays, wish everything I want for my family, what I want for my whole Serbia as well. It is important that we simply have serious and responsible people on this journey, that we pass serious and responsible laws, and that these serious and responsible laws are applied. I am very glad that this new year we begin with one of these laws, a specific law, unique in Serbia ever. Of course, here's a suggestion that every New Year we start with an incentive for young people from 16 to 29 years, if it's possible for us to plan it, that we don't have to schedule a special session, that every new year we start with an incentive for young people. How much? As many states as possible, but it's a wonderful reason why we met today, and of course I expect everyone in their right mind to vote in favour of this law. When we talk about incentives, we finally, well, it's not a large amount, it can be interpreted in different ways, but it's certainly an indication that this country takes care of all its citizens, the youngest, the young and the oldest. What has been repeated and can be considered to be certainly the continuity of this ministry, but also these governments and above all the continuity of Alexander Vukic's policy, which is to help all those who need help and make this assistance more and more widely year after year and to literally embrace everything. Decisions for having a firstborn child are made 10 times more than they have ever been given, and the decision to help pensioners literally quarterlyly or several times over the year is a decision that shows that we care for our young and the youngest and the oldest. As far as this law is concerned, it is very simple for all those who will and who need to get help to register with their unique home number and ID card and will be paid to them literally within 15 days, i.e. as early as February 1st. It is an important and important measure, above all, because it is, I am sure, unique in this part of Europe and perhaps in the world. Everything that Alexander Vucic does seems to me to be very unique to this part of Europe, certainly, but when we consider the situation of the global economic crisis but also of the crisis, combined with one another, the simple response of Alexander Vukic and the state of Serbia will, I'm sure, be taught in colleges, because what Alexander Vukic did is indeed, it could be said, a miracle unseen. That at a time when everyone in other countries, especially in the surrounding countries, saw how to put an end to the end, how in general to obtain at least one type of vaccine or at the beginning of equipment and protective remedies to fight the herds, we at the same time had the first or among the first in Europe and equipment and vaccines, three or four and the first drugs to appear. So, in the best possible way, we've responded to a major crisis. On the other hand, never again construction sites, never again new buildings, new projects and new factories. When you look at it, you simply can't find a simple answer as to how a country managed to respond to such difficult opportunities and difficult conditions. The answer is very simple. It's Alexander Vukic. What is also important is that all those borders that Alexander Vukic has moved and the goals set and which at first seemed unattainable and impossible, these goals are achieved but the border literally rises from month to month each year to year to one scale higher, and each scale is more standard, greater security and stronger Serbia's state. It's very interesting and simple opposition, I wouldn't personally call them the opposition, because in order for an opposition, he must at least talk about wanting to help his fellow citizens, and this opposition is not working. This opposition has the only desire to come to power at all costs, no politics, no support and no choice. None of those three conditions can be met so that they can come into power, the only way is to have the support of the citizens, because when you have the support of the citizens then you can do anything. Right now, the SNS, Aleksandar Vucic, has the support of citizens, has absolute support and therefore makes decisions that are in the best interest of every citizen and state of Serbia. What's interesting is that's exactly the budget. A budget that, at the time of Alexander Vukic, but also in the time of this minister, of this government, can make decisions and we can help all who need help. One word, we have a budget from which we can do anything. When I say everything, it literally means new hospitals, new highways, new schools, new sports halls, new facilities. Among other things, social work centres have been forgotten, homes of culture, homes of health, everything others have closed down as a state we renovate, rebuild and return to life. Finally, people began to stay in the village and that thanks to the incentives for agriculture and for young people, for young couples, they found reasons and found motives and strengths and, of course, they needed resources. They've got someone to turn to. They have their own country. They have a ministry that will help them and have a National Assembly that will vote the laws that are also of interest to them. The same budget at the time of Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Tadic, the whole team of thieves, because they cannot be called otherwise, given what they were doing, at the time, nothing could be done from that budget, except that a dozen people become enormously rich, while Serbian citizens are left without their jobs, no factories, no future, and that is the worst without any chance of doing anything for themselves and their family. In 2012, they managed to choose the right option, the SNS and Alexander Vukic options, and this proved to be the right solution. So the basic difference between this budget in the last ten years and the budget of the last 12 years is that that budget has been spent in the interests of a small group of people, which was only used to draw money into private pockets, on the other hand, the budget of the last ten years serves exclusively in the interests of citizens and, as in every family and in every factory, in every society or association, it's important who leads, so is who runs this state of Serbia. She's being led by Alexander Vukic, she's being led in the right way. In this year, now January is the month, we expect again, as much as it seems impossible, growth greater than last year, and already next year growth is bigger than this year. So I started my presentation today, and I'm going to finish it the same way, here's a proposal for a finance minister, to start every new year by encouraging young people from 2016 to 2019. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12050	Thank you. The word is from the People's MP Nikola Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12051	We are today discussing the proposal for a law on the temporary register of citizens of the Republic of Serbia from 16 to 29 years of age who are paying financial assistance to mitigate the consequences of Kovid - 19, caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. This measure of assistance is just another proof of how much the state thinks of young people, that politics is turned to improving the position of young people. For SNS, the most important and urgent task is the country's demographic recovery through biological recovery, strategic, targeted and effective support for maternity, mothers and families with children, the care of young people and the creation of clear incentives for their stay in Serbia, because they are the young future of our country. No one has ever given this kind of support and encouragement to young people until President Alexander Vukic. In the last few years, since President Vukic led her, the state has been more and more responsible for the issue of monetary support to all categories, which is growing year after year. As President Aleksandar Vukic also promised from 1 January 2022, all parents with a firstborn child received 300,000, three times more than the current 100,000 dinars, and there are benefits for parents of students, who are not subject to test deadlines, grant support to parents, young married couples to buy an apartment of up to 20,000 euros. On the basis of all of this, it is clear and uncontestable to all today more than ever invest in youth. The unemployment rate today is around 10%, while in 2012, it was 25.9%, so every fourth Serbian citizen was unemployed. That's why it makes sense that young people from Serbia were leaving at the time, looking for a better future. But that's why young people stay in Serbia today and work in their country, because this government has made it possible for thousands of PhDs to be employed, because today we have four scientific and technological parks, in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Cačka, because of the government's programme "My first salary" and many more. Young people are one of the most important pillars of our country and that is why we will never stop investing in Serbia's better future. I am very proud and happy to see that young people have found refuge in young people’s offices, both urban and municipal, and today’s offices have never worked better and more efficiently. By 2012, they were practically undetected, no one even knew they existed. Our policy is also to achieve the fundamental equality of women, regardless of the years of life, on social, professional or family status. All this shows is that behind President Alexander Vukic and the SNS there are results, hard work and care for all our citizens. Then come any political fossils that left this country to bankruptcy, those with more than 619m euros in Serbian citizens in their pockets, those for which the young left our country, those who beat their wives, such as Marinike, such as Jeremici, Gilasovci, remain tycoons that Serbian citizens no longer want. Now, they give themselves the right to be criticized today. It is to be criticized without any cover or shame, but we're somewhat used to it, because their empty stories are the only things they can do. But I'm more interested in how without any shame they constantly deal with dirty lies, threats? How many times have we been able to see in the tycoon media the names of Alexander Vukic, his family, members of the SNS, in the most ugly context possible? That's the kind of guy who wants to go back to power. You better stay where your citizens sent you in 2012 in the dark and political past, because Serbia today is a strong and stable economic country, because Serbia will never kneel again, because Serbia will not withdraw from the worst and because it will not allow them to rob our country again. In three months, the citizens will show what the greatest victory is, victory for Serbia, victory for our children. The surrender was never an option. Long live Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12052	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12053	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the subject is certainly a fine and valuable consideration. As one of my colleagues said, and one good reason to start the year, the work of the National Assembly, regardless of what we expect soon, is the Republic elections. But, Mr. Minister, not everyone is happy about what we're doing today. And let's not be happy, I can understand that, but I can't understand anything else why they insult our youngest population. You know what they say about what we do today? We give 100 euros to our citizens who are 16 to 29 years old because we have the smallest number of supporters and voters there, so we want with those 100 euros to buy their votes and their trust in the future. If someone told me I was going to vote for someone for 100 euros, believe me, it would be dark on my eyes, I don't know how it would end. I'm no different than most Serbian citizens. There's something called honor, called cheek, dignity. Some things don't sell for 100 euros. Some things don't have a price. But the tabloids owned by Dragan Gilas and Solak keep trying to make dissatisfaction with the citizens because, well, the citizens will get something from the state and be less for them if and when they come to power. That's why they worry the most. Mr. Minister, every good thing towards the citizens of Serbia here has been greatly attacked by the former regime. Remember the stories everything was attacked and the project "Belgrade on Water". You started out as the current mayor, here they attacked that the whole project was made up, that we were giving some private investor something belonging to the city of Belgrade, which belongs to the Belgraders, as if someone were going to take it, put it on their backs and take it away. The reason was that any project, anything that could be a success, not by the authorities, but by the success of Serbia and Belgrade, because Belgrade is the capital of Serbia, is not, because whatever good is happening in Serbia is less likely to re-emerge two Dragans, one Solak and the other Gilas. Mr. Minister, here's one of my colleagues again said there's an increase in family assistance with children. Just remember how they attacked us for the hospitals we inherited in 2012, the events I'm talking about were in 2012 and 2013, when our hospitals were destroyed, when they weren't restored, renovated for decades, so they attacked us, even that website "Bebac", it seems to me, under what conditions our mother is giving birth to children. So it was who cared that we were only five or six months in power. Now that we have built hospitals, when we have built maternity homes, when we have improved the quality of life in the territory of the Republic of Serbia the first story was – for nothing, Serbian citizens leave Serbia. They were looking forward to it, and they looked forward to it. According to Eurostat, for the first time in 2018, more citizens of the Republic of Serbia have checked out of EU territory than they have reported. You've been hearing about it ever since. They made up another story. Now they say -- they're free of hospitals and maternity homes when there's no one to work here, because all doctors, all Serbian technicians, have left Serbia, and that's a huge failure. They won't say what's realistically true, let's just look at how much employment has taken place in the health sector in recent years, especially since the pandemic of Kovida. I know about my town of Firefighter, that close to 100 technicians have been employed in the last two years. So it's not true. But whatever you do, you have to be attacked. Whatever's good for Serbia, it's bad for them and their chances and perceptions to come to power. Remember, Mr. Minister, you were then the mayor of Belgrade, as we were attacked in 2014 for the famous programme of fiscal consolidation measures. We have been attacked by the former regime, led by Gilas and Solak, to take away their well-deserved and acquired pensions against the law and the Constitution. Here, Mr. Minister, the average pension in 2008, during their government, was 217 euros in 2009, 211 euros in 2010, 193 euros. Well, who took pensions from Serbian citizens, without laws, without anything, fraud? How is that a reduced pension of 25 euros on average? It's not that small, it's over 10%. Then they didn't care about the pensioners and the interests of Serbian citizens. In 2012, 204 euros was a pension, but it is not their credit, it would be much smaller, because it is on course in Euro 112, 113, 114. Just to remind the citizens of Serbia that on 5 August 2012, the euro rate was 119,80, so calculate the nominally 23,000 euros and the average pension on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, in 2021, the average pension was 250 euros, but that's something you can't say. That's the result you can't brag about, because you're going to get into a situation where someone accuses you of doing it for election and election and that it's the only policy that the SNS has. You can't say 10 highways are made. You can't say what you built. They invent functional campaigns because their presidential candidates only went to the stables. I don't mind that either, but they didn't have any capital investment to show the citizens of Serbia, so they had to caress and pet their bodies. I'm saying, I don't mind, but it can only be one part of the campaign for the president, not the campaign. It was their campaign. I guess they thought we were all in Serbia cattle, and they're the top shepherds and shepherds, so they're gonna lead us. That's what they're trying to do today. And whatever we do, they'll always invent something new and make new demands. Just remember this story about "Rio Tint". When all those justified reasons were removed, did the roadblocks stop? No, they're not. Will they radicalize themselves? It will. Why? The goal is neither the environment nor the goal nor the Rio Tinto, because their concern for the environment tells us that they cared about the citizens of Serbia, or they probably thought that if there were no factories, no jobs, no pollution. We can think about it, but how is it that citizens are getting poorer and they are getting richer? Look out, Dragan Gilas was the Minister for the National Investment Plan. The younger fellow MPs, and the ones we're discussing today when it comes to this aid, they don't know what it is. It was a kind of ministry that was responsible for domestic investment, i.e. public works, road construction, highways, bridges, railway reconstruction, airports. Did Gilas do any of that? Is there a highway open? Is there a hospital open? Is there a new school? It's not any of it. So I guess that's why he had amnesia that he was just the mayor of Belgrade. When we provided assistance to all citizens who were aged in 2020, I have to remind all of my colleagues, including you, Mr. Minister, what kind of debates were here in the National Assembly and what problems the former regime had made not to come to, because again, my God, they were talking about some kind of vote purchase. If you tell them today that GDP growth in Serbia in 2021 was over 7%, they will say that because we had a decline in 2020 of 0.95%. I just don't know, here's, let's say, one piece of information, if it was a 0.9% drop in 2020, so that's why we had a high growth in 2021, let's see what it looks like during their government. In 2009, they had a 2.7% drop. You know what their growth was? According to their theory, presented by self-proclaimed economic experts Dragan Gilas and Solak to Serbian citizens, growth is expected to be around 10% in 2010, following a 2.7% decline. Growth was, believe it or not, just 0.7%. Where are you going to lower base than it was in 2009? I could take hours of data and compare power between SNS and Alexander Vukic and the former DOS authorities gathered around DS and Dragan Gilas. At some point, however, they may have to do so themselves among their citizens and in some elections to bear these results. Here, you have one campaign today, which I think is very interesting, which is against a referendum that changes the way the judicial and prosecutor's office is elected. I've heard all kinds of nonsense about Kosovo, etc. Now, since the citizens of Serbia are neither stupid nor crazy, they had to invent something, so they invented that there was no public debate. That's not true. She's been around a lot, even here in the National Assembly. The public debate was attended by the professional public, and no one can dispute that. We've come up with some text of amendments that refer to citizens for a statement and a check. Then you have one situation to attack you because you want to increase the independence and independence of judicial and prosecutorial officials. You know why? Because they will never again be able to implement that judicial reform that was in 2009 and 2010. It will be much harder, they will have to ask the citizens again, and they all hope in some way, by some miracle, by some revolution, by some scenario such as the Ukrainian or northern Macedonia, or recently, in Kazakhstan to come to power. They forget that only the elections come to power in Serbia. Well, therefore, the citizens of Serbia should be calm. We'll pass the law, we'll pass the law for our youngest part of the population, give them incentives to fight the crown of the virus. Everyone's got that fight over their heads, but we have to hold out for public health. We must be prepared that when this monster passes, we continue to rebuild and build the Republic of Serbia, as we did in difficult times when it was a crown. I must remind the citizens of Serbia that during 2021 the level of foreign direct investment was almost four billion or more specifically 3.9 billion, so I would like someone to tell me whether there were more investments in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in recent or in some distant past than it was in 2021, which only shows us that Serbia is on the right path and that it no longer wants to return during the time of the thieves who led Serbia during Dragan Gilas and Solak?
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12054	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word is made by MP Mladen Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12055	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating all the citizens of our country on Christmas and New Year's holidays, and I must say that since the beginning of the pandemic of the Crown of the Virus, since March 2020, almost two years ago, the state of Serbia has singled out over 8.5 billion euros, which makes up 18% of GDP for our citizens and the economy, in order to mitigate the negative consequences of the virus's corona on our country. I have to say, that's what we did, and that's why we did it because our economy has strengthened. Foreign direct investment amounted to 3.1 billion euros in 2020, and in 2021, a record 3.9 billion euros. By this policy led by Aleksandar Vukic, we have built hospitals, to remind only the citizens of three coves of hospitals throughout the country, schools, kindergartens, road infrastructures, at this point over ten highways, factories, over 250 factories. We've increased wages by 7.4% and pensions by 5.5%. We have developed our country in just 10 years, since 2012, and we continue to do so. That's what Serbian citizens recognize. Serbian citizens recognize the work, industriousness, expertise, progress and they do not want to return in the yellow days, to say, the football tycoon octopus of Gilas, Solak, Jeremic, who destroyed and sold the country to us. A strong state like this never forgets its citizens and never will. At the time of this monster that has hit the whole world, Serbia is beside the vaccines, which it has provided in time, and four species so that citizens can choose, let's just remember that it has helped both citizens and the economy continue to help. In addition to the 100 euros that all full-aged citizens received last year, the state defined an additional 80 euros for all full-time citizens, 130 euros, and also for pensioners in early February 2022, more specifically on February 10th, according to Minister Mali, a one-time cash aid of 20,000 dinars will be paid. But that's not the end of it. We think of young people as well. In addition to the Financial Support Act for the family with children that we adopted at the end of last year and which will give effect, I am sure very quickly, because the goal, as it is said, is right in the target and helps young people to achieve themselves as parents, we also think of our citizens up to 16 to 29 years old, who are affected by the pandemic more and more. We want to help them until they're on the labour market and they're hired. Gentlemen of the former government, call that help as you wish, "helicopter money" or as you wish, it is important that we help our citizens, and I can ask you Dragan Gilasu, Solaku, why didn't you think of Serbian citizens while you were in power and helped them, but now you're buying football clubs in England from their couples? You Serbian citizens laugh directly at your face, but the same citizens will show you in the elections where you are. To all of this someone will say that the state leadership of our country is being granted to citizens before the April elections, which is actually not true, and I will only remind our citizens of the fact that in 2014 we have had extraordinary parliamentary elections as we are going to have them and now, and right before the elections were held, the state leadership has implemented fiscal consolidation measures, i.e. we have reduced pensions and salaries and we have received elections. In the end, I will be brief, just to recapture, last year's state leadership led by President Aleksandar Vukic, has directed Serbia's money, over 600m euros, to Serbian citizens. While the former regime of Dragan Gilas, over 600m euros, brought Serbia's citizens out of the country to exotic destinations to buy football clubs in the English prime minister's league, let the citizens themselves assess who works better and in whose interest. At the very end, I urge Serbian citizens to attend a referendum Sunday, January 16th and round "Yes" for an even more independent judiciary and justice that will never again be like that of the former government. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12056	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12057	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that Lincoln said, "The government of the people of the people for the people," so that in practice in Serbia, and when we compare 2012 and this one, we will see that the previous government had not shared anything with anyone, took everything from whom it could arrive, and during the division, it made sure that they shared it with themselves, or to share it with each other, proportionately with the functions and powers they had at that time. As far as I can tell, Dragan Gilas was the most skilled man in that department and they didn't know how money was made, they only knew how that money was shared between them. We didn't live on what was earned, we mostly lived on the sale of assets and borrowings. When they talk about the debts Serbia currently has, they forget that other than the 17 billion that they left behind, they left interest rates of 6%. They also forgot that the entire social property was sold for 6.7 billion and that the debt was somewhat less, so it was 17 billion. If we consider that they spent social property, if we take into account that the London Paris Club has written us over four billion euros, that they also filled it out very quickly, when we take the donor support that was also between four and five billion, to those 17 billion they left behind, they need to be sent these 15 billion from donor support, from the Paris London Club, and from the sale of almost complete social assets in the privatisations that were, as they call "buzzars" and in which they sold some factories, sugars for three euros. So, these revenues, em's social property was sold below the price, em's money was spent without creating new businesses and not creating a new economic environment. There were no factories that were supposed to make money. They only had one big yellow factory that spent money. Today the budget compared to 2012 is higher by 100%. So instead of 750 billion, I'm saying it by heart now is 1,500 billion, and the budget is charged from real sources and I'm going to try to explain how. So, relative to the pay fund that was then now has the salary fund increased by more than twice. If they spent as much as six to six and a half billion dollars in a salary fund over the year, it seems to me, at an annual level of about 14 billion. The pension fund is about six billion at this point. In their time pensions were down 48%, which means there was no payment of employees to the PIO fund, but it came from the budget with 48%. Currently, grants for pensions from the Republic of Serbia's budget are slightly below 20%, which says that the number of employees is far higher than it was in 2012 and that this is talking about that increased salary fund I was already talking about. Of course, when people have more money, and they need more, then they spend more, they see it in our stores, trade chains, roads, etc. Then incomes grow, and I believe that now that we share this with younger people, when we later divide the pensioners that in a certain way one fifth will automatically go through 20% of VAT back to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and many excise goods will contribute to making it more than 20%. So we came at a time when the government didn't just have to, the state, take, but can share. As we have already divided the money, I first appeal to the ministers and to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and voters to think a little bit more about the country's food security and food sovereignty, which is what the president of the Republic of Serbia does, and that at this point we must pay attention to the preparation of spring seeds, because money should not only be shared, but before and earned and agriculture is very important both at this time food and that the potential of this country and it guarantees, apart from the food security of the population, guarantees that we will also have excess food, i.e. to be a food sovereign country in relation to the CEFTA market, including some other markets. One who has excess food certainly has some kind of political power over those who do not have enough food in the environment. The sweetest fruits are their own gardens, and so I urge that money be found in the preparation of the seed and we further subsidize mineral fertilisers. At this point, farmers are delivering through the Stock Reserve Directorate, delivering flour to the people of 30 dinars, and at this point mineral fertilisers that are necessary for sowing and good yields, and to remind the people that we are a significant exporter and that we belong to the first 10 exporters of wheat and corn and that the spring sowing follows, production of sunflowers, olives, production of sugar tails, etc. follows us, in order to be rich, we also need the proper amount of mineral fertilizer. At this point the fertilizer is more expensive four times the flour, so four times the wheat, four times the flour that the state delivers to the bakers through the Stock Reserve Directorate. In order for our reserves to be full, we need to save the wheat in order to have good yields, and we need to keep it in the crop when we sow corn, sugar tails, crops, olives, etc. We need to insert a certain amount of nitrogen and it costs. At this point, mineral fertilisers with an unsustainable price of Eurokg, which, compared to the price of wheat, can be up to four kilograms, is why my appeal to the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to subsidize the supply of mineral fertilisers in a certain way, to provide funds because these are exceptional circumstances. So no one could have predicted that mineral fertilisers would probably be caused by gas, etc. To reach the price of one euro kilogram compared to that, a ton costs a thousand euros and if you need 500 kilograms of fertilizer for a fertile field, then it means that only a crop in mineral fertilisers costs you 500 euros per hectare and our agricultural producers cannot pay for it and will therefore resort to not saving wheat, will not throw mineral fertilizers into the seed layer or will drastically reduce the amount. We are at risk of losing only 10% of our contributions, wheat would lose 200,000 tonnes, corn would lose about 600,000 tonnes, and olives would be mostly damage around my budget between 800 000 and a million tonnes, which, by 250 euros, you'll get less in export, in sales you'll get less than 250m euros. My appeal is that this will certainly cost about 150m euros in payments to young people, I also welcome the payment to pensioners, but I believe that the money that would be given for agricultural production in order to return by, for example, the state part of the mineral fertilizer, the subsidized peasants in the summer, or in the autumn, a certain amount of wheat in exchange and a certain amount of corn, which would be in the direction that the President of the Republic and the holder of the electoral list of these majority, would be in the direction of its aspirations to provide maximum amounts of food, as much grain as possible, to ensure that the state has food security in such a way and that it has some kind of sovereignty, or that exports can satisfy the needs of regional markets. Let me remind you that if the yields are smaller because of the poor grain savings, if the yields are smaller in this quantity that I said, 10%, that means about 800,000 tonnes for wheat and corn, that we will lose some of the market because we will reduce exports, and when we reduce exports, we will lose some of the market that we currently hold and occupy and that is why my appeal to both the Minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to think that one six billion will be directed to subsidise mineral fertilisers in such a way that they participate with one third of the cost of that fertilizer. In this way, about 150 thousand tons of fertilizer would be used, and what would yield – usually one kilogram of fertilizer would bring between three and four kilograms of grain, and at this point it means that 150 thousand tons would have higher yields, 600 thousand tons, which goes in that balance not to lose 800 thousand tonnes. I think a kilo of fertilizer brings up three and a half to four kilos. That at the moment when the price of cereals is 250 euros, and the price of fertilizer is thousands of euros, farmers have no motive to do so. Even if they predict that there will be drought, they do not bring in four and a half kilograms more, and they can lose motive not to save agricultural crops, resulting in significant losses in exports and the loss of certain markets. I think I end up with Kissinger's saying that whoever controls food in a certain way controls people and I think that we have a chance in food production and that we need to find funds before spring sowing, to make the most of the natural, fertile land and a lot of valuable people, and that if it's possible, given that last year's drying and that last year's exports of corn that will happen until October and November of this year, that there will be something smaller and we need to make up for that loss, or we need to prepare ourselves for one, if God did, a year of birth and to take advantage of what I said, and the natural circumstances and fertile land and very valuable people who thank for everything they've done in wheat so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12058	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Zoran Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12059	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, we have before us a bill that many colleagues have already spoken about and who indeed, when it comes to public response, had absolutely no objection, because one example of how the state takes care of and in these difficult times, especially young people, especially when we talk about people 16 years of age and above, who are just beginning their lives, who are at the end of high school school education, who are planning their future, who are likely to enter colleges and who are certainly in the right sense of those words represent the future of our country. Certainly the help that is given is symbolic, but it will also have good results and effects, such as previous aid packages that have been given to both the economy and the population, as well as that famous helicopter money, as they say, have also given effects and results, because all that money goes later on in consumption and is returning to the economy, which helps and stimulates that our wheel of economics continues to spin. Unfortunately, we have had attacks of course, especially on social networks since this initiative, or legal solution that is before us today, which has been revealed by the same people who, while in power during the great crisis that took place in 2008, claimed that this economic crisis is a developmental opportunity for Serbia, who absolutely did not move with their finger to help the citizens in this difficult period, the period that is remembered by the catatenation of the factory, which is remembered by half a million inhabitants who have lost their jobs, who have been left out of work, not by their own fault, but simply by the guilt and flows that were happening in the world, but also by the incompetent authorities of the then factory, who absolutely did not perform their own function for whom the citizens chose it, but only saw them reselling seconds on RTS, who only saw that they would take a future step in their career so that they might be printed out of all their own policies, and were absolutely internationalised. We will not talk about the damage, the damage is still felt and the Serbian citizens remember the period well, and even the residents we are talking about today, aged 16 to 29, because unfortunately they have experienced, a good part of them for sure, to have their parents run out of work that they had to do, and also in the areas of the gray economy to feed their children. Certainly, the good news we have heard from young people is that they will take advantage of these 100 euros, so that some will propose their girls and thus form, i.e. they can use these 100 euros to start their own business, because the state has made every effort to help young people through the opening of scientific and technological parks, the business incubator of Serbia, generators who can actually help these young people create their own ideas and visions that they have in their heads, to translate into paper and to formulate through a legal face, through a certain company, business and thus to involve themselves in the flows of the economy and to create their own money, and to actually start these 100 euros in order to jargonically say that they are turning and to increase their wealth from 100 euros. I'm saying again, unfortunately, we had these same people who actually did nothing during the crisis period, they're criticizing that this aid is inconsequential, and then we have the genius stuff that they bring up, which is that they've defined the term biflation. Which, in general, I, as a future doctor of economic science, have never heard, and even when I tried to Google and find some work on the subject, certainly the concept – biflation I never came across. They actually define that in certain sectors you have inflation, and in other sectors you have the inability to say, these certain changes, they raise their prices for their products and services. I mean, what they're up to, that kind of politics, that kind of nebulous, doesn't lead any politics. That policy they run, the policy of beating up empty straw. Then they also said that apparently these 100 euros that these young people will get are not 100 euros, but 90 euros because those 10 euros ate inflation. They obviously have no idea what the concept is – inflation, obviously they don't follow statistics, because the real inflation they're talking about was just in their time, and I'm going to talk about it a little bit later, given that we already have some of their candidates for presidents or mayors of Belgrade, who have already shown themselves in certain positions how capable they are, or unable to perform such functions. Absolutely here, it is not about inflation eating 100 euros, but actually, as the legal solution says, on the date on which the application is completed, a list will be made of specifically young people who have applied and will be paid 100 euros in dinar versus the value on the day of payment on the bills they have reported or who, by law, will be open to them and will be able to use that money for what they need. Otherwise, in the previous period, not counting on these external shocks that occurred, especially in the area of energy, Serbia had never had a smaller inflation, because never more capable and better management in the National Bank of Serbia, starting with Governor Jorvanka Tabakovic and her team, we did not have, but one proof of excellent co-operation between monetary and fiscal policymakers had just enabled us to have such low inflation in the previous period, and today we are also struggling to cope with these external shocks that unfortunately are not our faults, we can fight and that already in the middle of this year, and this problem that has arised slowly stabilised and returned. So much for their ability, and as much as they themselves are capable and how serious the water policy tells us exactly how much they have announced before the new year that they will, as early as January, announce their candidate's name for the presidential election and candidate for mayoral office or mayor of Belgrade, because they are doing serious statistics. We saw this famous tycoon statistics of precision 120% what it looks like when it all comes together, because the engine brain, you heard, add 20%, plus 20%, so it takes 20%, and so it collected and resells seconds on RTS, so it took 619m euros from citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Yes, I'm talking about tycoon Dragan Gilas, who, with his friend Solak, bought Southampton from these people's couples, they've still found it appropriate to laugh at citizens with different tweets, statuses, and one of the last ones is to ask Solak to bring Gilas to Southampton to make some of them probably a funny joke to Serbian citizens, or to laugh at Serbian citizens in the face. In their media, he appeared as one of the most serious candidates, former Governor Dejan Soskic, and what is interesting is that he is just one of the last governors of their era, who was governor of the National Bank from 2010 to 2012, and as far as they are capable of seeing and by statistics, we know that during that period the average salary in Serbia was between 330 and 360 euros, and we heard today from distinguished counterpart Vuk Mircetić how much, or according to official statistics in November, was 561.8 euros. Also, the unemployment rate in that period was double-digit and ranged from 20.9 to 25.9% in 2012. We were able to bring her down to 10% during the greatest pandemic of the coronary virus, and today she's moving to about 10%. Just when I'm talking about inflation, so the biggest result achieved exactly that inflation that was two digits in 2010, when it took over the governor's 10.3, 2012 when it ended 12.2%, and I said that the inflation that was moving afterwards was below 3%, which is otherwise targeted inflation by the National Bank of Serbia, we had a much better result than it was achieved in the EU area, not counting this last period where due to external shocks, as I said, there is a slightly higher amount of inflation, but which will certainly stabilise and drop. They are also known for the growth of gross domestic product, which was negative in their time. We heard today from the esteemed Minister Sinisha Malia that according to this unofficial information, that information and data were processed, that we achieved a 7.5% growth, the real growth of the gross domestic product of 7.5%. This also tells us about the success of fiscal and monetary policy holders, because, if you remember, when we talked about budget rebalancing, it is this percentage and target, which actually tells us how seriously it has been approached, and how serious it has been to make the budget itself, and how effective it is to realise our country's development plan. What this period of Šoškovic being the governor is also known for is the incredible growth of the exchange rate. You know that one of the important segments to be a serious country and to attract foreign investment, so that your economy can develop, so that you can be competitive on the foreign market, is that you have in addition to the stability of the price and the stability of the exchange rate, so that businessmen can do the right thing, the right way to plan their activities and plan activities related to the export of the product. Literally, when you look at the National Bank site, in July 2010, when Soskić became governor, the course was 106,1458 dinars for the euro, middle course, and when he finished his job as governor in 2012, in a similar period, in early August, he was 118,0542 dinars per euro. There was spent a large amount of the National Bank of Serbia foreign reserves it had, and in 2011 it had 12.05 billion euros, to end in 2012 at 10.91 billion euros spent to prevent an even greater growth of the dinar course. Well, this growth course is certainly not random, because we know that this tycoon yellow regime worked in the interest of tycoon and individuals who were trying to monopolise Serbia and monopolise its economy, and it's no wonder that it's this kind of course movement. When you look at the period since Governor Jorvanka Tabakovic was respected at the head of the National Bank, that you do not have important oscillations when it comes to the exchange rate and that the National Bank of Serbia is firm and determined when it comes to the implementation of monetary policy, and according to the official statistics that we have today, and I am sure that the higher figure today, this is again older data, 16,453 billion euros in foreign currency reserves. Let's not talk about how we've increased the gold we have and that as a state we have the highest amount of gold reserves compared to any country in the region, when their reserves are added together. Not to mention that it will continue to work to raise gold reserves, i.e. it is an important segment for the guarantee and stability of the exchange rate and the strengthening of the dinars. We heard today from respected colleagues and other statistics that actually measured their policies, the policy criterion they would continue to implement, because, you know, the wolf changes the hair, but never. Why would they change something in this period while they're in opposition, even if they get citizens' confidence that something better will work? Because so far, we have not heard that those with concrete activities, measures, programmes, strategies have come out to say – well, that's how we're going to solve this problem. All we could hear was a wave of problems they created while they were in power in Serbia, where they blamed us and most of all to President Aleksandar Vukic. Their policy is just what they're based on - to complain. They don't know anything else. If you asked them how to solve their problems, they wouldn't know how to explain it. And if they did, they'd probably show it in the period when they were in power by 2012. They wouldn't build a bridge on Ada whose value is like half of the Moravia Corridor. It would not have been this Moravia corridor, which they would otherwise have during their reigns promised, i.e. Their coalition partner, people who are also of the genus Triestenik. The then investment minister is also of the genus Triestenik along with Aleksic, promised the Moravski Corridor and did nothing. All they knew was that they were setting up the gas business for the mates. They knew how to sign contract annexes to, behold, provide money to their partners, that projects allegedly ended in a period when votes needed to be secured, because they viewed citizens as just numbers, statistics, on a voting machine. Not to say it like a haircut sheep. That time is, fortunately, past. That time will never come back. It is they who at least have the arguments of any measure that has been adopted so far as to help Serbian citizens in the period of the crown's pandemic to criticise. Because, as I said, when it was that crisis, which they claimed was Serbia's developmental chance, they didn't move their fingers to help or to create anything to help citizens. I'll tell you one more thing. I read a very interesting paper claiming that the economic science allegedly failed to predict and prevent many crises. Well, it's not a problem in economic science, because in that period, you had authors who wrote papers, but problems with the moss in those mainstream economists and authorities who didn't take it seriously. That's what the furniture was during the yellow regime, not paying attention to the signals coming from their side. Unlike that period, today we have a leader, Alexander Vukic, we have his team who daily monitors the movement of these signals and therefore creates economic policy, creates instruments and measures that are being implemented that are precisely the effects that would be expected to ease us. It is enough to see that during the 2020 pandemic the forecasted decline in our economy was about 6%, and we managed to alleviate it and reduce it to a minus 0.9%, which no other country has succeeded. Just because we have people who take care of both these signals and indeed from the scientific principle, it's those who create policy and these measures that are being implemented. So, and this legal solution that we'll, I'm sure, unanimously support will give the results, give the effects. You know how, after the battle, everyone is generals, we can sit down very easily to analyze whether something could have been better or otherwise done. I'm sure he can always do better, but I'm absolutely sure without the help and measure we've taken and what we're going to do would be a lot worse for us, like in the yellow tycoons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12060	I thank Mr. Tomic. The next is MP Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12061	Ladies and gentlemen, if my record is correct, this is the tenth time that the state of Serbia has given direct financial assistance to citizens, institutions and businesses, to help them overcome the problems we all have due to the Corona epidemic. What this package will help, which will be set aside around 130m euros, is that it is intended for young people. When I talk about young people, I remind you that in December, the state has brought a few measures that will make it easier for young people, young married couples to settle the housing issue. Like most of the measures, similar measures that the state has taken over the past two years, the announcement that young people will receive 100 euros a piece of the opposition welcomed the knife, with a mockery, with comments that Vukic does not share his money, but shares his people's money, and with an explanation that the state is taking money from citizens and then paying them back the same money as a charity. First, in which country in the world does the president of the state give money to the citizens, gives his money to the citizens? It doesn't exist. It doesn't even exist in fairy tales. As for this second claim, the state takes money from citizens, then returns it to its citizens, it's nothing but cheap propaganda, a cheap attempt at manipulation. What defines the state as a concept, one of the basic attributes by which the state is recognised is that it takes money from citizens in various ways, through taxes, taxes and various other charges, and then uses and spends on the general good, in the interest of the state, in the interest of the citizens. Then we have choices in which citizens judge whether the state, or whether the people who run the state, have spent the civil money properly. While the DOS coalition was in power, it was ten years ago, the state was also taking money from citizens, but as one of my friends said, when we talked about this yesterday, he was taking, and you weren't giving, and you're taking, but you're giving. I remind myself that around 350,000 people in Serbia were out of work at the time. People were thrown out of their jobs on the street, literally some of them starved, had nothing to live on. However, that so-called. The national, caring, democratic government has not once realized it has granted them any financial assistance, at least 10, 20, 100 euros. They accuse us of being a dictatorial, not a people's government, of not taking care of the citizens' interest, but as seen from these discussions today, we've already given money to citizens of the Republic of Serbia for the tenth time, we're giving money to businesses, we're giving money to institutions, and we're giving it to the situation after we've hired hundreds of thousands of people in Serbia over the past few years. So they fired people from work, didn't give them any help. We hire people, and at the same time as the state is in a situation, we help these people financially. The truth is, they once promised to help Serbian citizens, if you remember, that was ten years ago before the elections, when they promised citizens that every full-time Serbian citizen would get 1,000, I don't remember whether it was 1,000 euros or dollars, provided that Boris Tadic and DS in the election of Tomislav Nikolic. Boris Tadic won the election, however, Serbia's citizens of the promised $1,000 have not seen a single dollar. So, in this proposed 100-euro award to young people in Serbia aged 16-29, there is nothing controversial, that is one good measure. That measure shows two things. The first thing is that the state takes care of its citizens, that it helps them whenever it is in a position to do so, and the second is that Serbia's economy has recovered from the sun at a time when Serbia was led by these parties that are now represented as the right opposition, which are represented as some kind of national hope that Serbian citizens will save from our fear, as they say. I will take this opportunity to inform young people in the Great Plan that these 100 euros will not be the only financial aid, the only funds they will receive during this winter. At the end of last year, we in the municipal leadership agreed to reward all primary and secondary school students in the Great Plan who finish their school year with excellent success, starting from the previous school year. So every student in the Great Plan that ended last school year with a great success will get 10,000 dinars, regardless of whether they are primary or secondary school students. Last year, in high school, economic and catering school, we had more than 200 students in high school who were great at the end of the year. In elementary schools, we had over 1,000 students, I say, all of them will receive 10,000 dinars in February, and we hope that in June after the end of this school year, that number will be even higher, because in June, after the end of this school year, we will divide 10,000 dinars more. All this would not have been possible if Serbia's economy had not developed, that the situation in Serbia's economy and the situation in the Great Plan's economy was not well. That the condition is good, that the condition improves to the better, tells the following data. When the responsibility for the management of the municipality in the Great Plan took over the SNS, the realisation of the budget was 850 million dinars. In the last year, we made a budget of over a billion and 300 million dinars, and at the pre-latest session of the Assembly of the Municipality, we adopted a budget for this year of billions and 400 million dinars. Finally, I want to congratulate our brothers in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska, from Zvornik to Kupres, from Prijedor to Trebinj 30 years from the founding of Republika Srpska. I want them to make Republika Srpska successful and longevity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12062	I thank Mr. Maric. Next up is MP Dejan Kesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12063	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the esteemed minister with associates, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is before us today the proposal for a law on the temporary register of citizens of the Republic of Serbia aged 16-29 who are paying for financial assistance to alleviate the effects of the pandemic of the coronary disease virus. This bill is a continuation of a serious and responsible policy aimed primarily at curbing the negative effects of the coronary virus pandemic that we have been facing since the end of 2019. This period has made it clear to all of us citizens of the Republic of Serbia that during the pandemic of the Coronal Virus, our country acted seriously, responsibly, and that it knew that it recognized all the negative effects and pandemics that affected both our citizenship and our entire economy. This is the only way we have managed to make our economic system sustainable, to create a space for economic growth, and in addition to that, our level of public debt does not cross that line established by the Mastricht Agreement. Since early 2020, our Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resort Ministry have provided assistance to both the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and our entire economy through three packages of assistance to the total value of just over eight billion euros. I must remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that this first aid package amounted to over 600 billion dinars, a second aid package of 66 billion dinars and a third total of 274 billion dinars. In addition to all these separations, we have succeeded, and I must say that we are one of the few countries in Europe, and especially in the region, which we have managed to allocate money to build infrastructure, to invest in increased wages and pensions, to build new clinical centres, new schools, new hospitals and new homes of health. We knew that only by investing in the economy could we create a healthy basis for further economic development and this had just shown in 2021 when, according to the flash estimates, we achieved a 7.5% growth of the economy sector, that in the previous 2020 growth of over 6%, which will be more than 6.5% in the cumulative pool, which puts us first in Europe at the rate of economic growth. But what has certainly set us aside from the countries in Europe, and I must say, in relation to countries in the region, is that we have systematically helped both the economy and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In 2020, we decided to send a one-time cash aid to all the full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia of 100 euros, and many of the opposition today attacked that measure by saying that it would weaken our budget of the Republic of Serbia and that we would achieve nothing. It just totally happened the other way around. They said that this one-time cash aid could also be called "the money helicopter" and that such financial assistance would go towards jeopardising the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and we therefore, two years later, can see, speed up consumption and a certain amount of money was returning to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and that is exactly what we could use for all investments in the previous year. We also helped all categories of our population. We helped both the employees and the unemployed, we helped our oldest citizens, we helped health workers, we helped the members of the army and the members of the Ministry of the Interior, but also young people. This bill, which today is in front of us, clearly defines ways and procedures in which young people from 16 to 29 years of age can exercise the right to one-off cash aid of 100 euros. Article 2 of this law clearly defines that the right to receive one-time cash assistance is granted to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia from 16 to 29 years of age who have residence or residence on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, who possess a valid ID card and who apply for payment of financial assistance. Also, the right to achieve this assistance is also given to social assistance users, as well as to persons in the institutions for the enforcement of criminal sanctions. The citizens' application process for one-time cash assistance is the same as in previous times, and all persons who meet these conditions can apply to the Treasury Office portal where it is necessary to enter the name and last name, the unique home number and the number of valid ID cards. Also, citizens can choose where money will be paid, where they want to have an account and if they don't have a bank, they will open a dedicated account on their behalf. Therefore, this time I call on all our young citizens to apply for this help and that this is the only way we can continue to conduct the policy led by Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party, which is faster, safer and stronger Serbia. Besides young people, we will also help healthcare professionals. Healthcare professionals can expect one-off aid of 10,000 dinars on January 14th and our oldest citizens from February 14th, a one-time cash aid of 20,000 dinars. Now, when I said those things that were repeated, that is, by my colleagues in the past few hours of this debate, we have to make a fundamental difference compared to the period before 2012. What is what makes us completely different from the time of the rule of the former tycoon regime? It is because today we have a strong budget, which we have a strong country, because we are independent in making our own decisions, and precisely the results of this serious and responsible policy are both growth of 7.5% and today we have 180 billion dinars in our budget, but what we can invest in complete infrastructure. Today, we can boast that Serbia attracted 3.9 billion euros of foreign investment in the previous year. We have almost attracted more investment than all the countries in the region combined, which is an extremely good result as it was in the year 2019. What are the parameters, or what parameters do we have to talk about today in order to make a complete distinction compared to the period from 2012? Well, that's wages and pensions. It's unemployment. Today unemployment is 10.5%, almost as record again in 2019. But we have to say that from the previous two years we have faced the pandemic of the Coronus virus and we have acted as a state in the best way to protect our citizens but also to protect our economic fluctuations. What's also important to say is that in those two years too, we've singled out the money to build the most modern vaccine factory, that we've built a new Nis Clinical Center, that, here, we're bringing to an end the reconstruction of KC Serbia, that we're going to be doing a reconstruction of the KC Vojvodina. We do health care homes, we work schools, we do hospitals. Today we can see how much we missed that before 2012. On this occasion, I would like to invite all citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be vaccinated, because it is extremely necessary to continue to lead a normal life and to have our economic activity at the highest possible level. The second question we've been facing for the past month is the matter of the referendum. An extremely significant question and all of us in just over five days expects to go to polling stations and that we can exercise our right to vote and round up one of the two options offered to us on that ballot, which is the answer "yes" or "no". It is very important that we invite citizens of the Republic of Serbia to go to the polls together on 16 January and round up "yes". Why is it vital that we round up the “yes ”? Because if this referendum fails, we are going back a few steps, as President Aleksandar Vukic said, and this turning two or three steps back is going back when we talk about the process of Eurointegration. We are on our way to the EU today, on our way to full EU membership and this is extremely important. One of the reasons why we can talk today about European values and when we talk about adopting some European values regarding our legislation, it is precisely an independent judiciary. I do not agree with certain representatives of the opposition when they say that if this referendum passes or fails we will not provide more independent justice. It certainly is more independent than it was in 2012, but what we give to citizens and what has not done to any government until 2021, that is, when the process is over, when we talk about an act that has been directed to citizens to decide it, that is, in early 2022, is that we want a full selection of judicial and prosecutorial functions to move here from the National Assembly. We are resented by opposition representatives because we are doing so now, telling us that this is done by an illegal assembly, which is not entirely true. The illegal, or illegal, and our legitimate assembly is because we have won the trust of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the elections held in 2020. The process was transparent, the process was inclusive, the process was fully open. Why do they have a problem with us doing this now? Because as the National Assembly, we have directed the Act of Change of the Constitution to be decided by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This is what the people who sat in this Parliament until 2012 in full capacity, and then in the coming years sat in half capacity because when they saw they had no support from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, they left this parliament, and received monthly fees, they advocated here every day on the European road. I must remind you, these people who are the great advocates of Europe, the European values, the European path of Serbia have not opened any negotiating chapters, have not opened any clusters. We have opened cluster 4 concerning environmental protection. We're preparing to open cluster three, but it's very important that we talk, and it's very important that we debate the independence of the judiciary. Certainly, the judiciary is more independent today than it was in 2012, and therefore the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are due to come out on 16 January and round up yes. Because by having full capacity, we will have a fully independent judiciary, we will have clearly defined ways of electing judges and prosecutors in the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, we will abolish a trial period of three years relating to the choice of judges, we will prevent any form of political influence on the holders of judicial and prosecutorial functions, but we will also say that we are on our way to the EU. What is certainly important and what I have to look at in the next few minutes, and I will leave enough time for my colleagues to take part in the debate, are certain delusions that opposition party representatives are pushing over their tycoon media, that is, that the change in the Constitution applies either to Rio Tinto, to refer to the preamble. No, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as you were deceived by 2012 use this exclusive right for the last two or three months to continue to deceive you. No Rio Tinto is mentioned, no change in the preamble of Kosovo and Metohija as our southern Serbian province is mentioned in order to change, it speaks exclusively of the independence of the judiciary and any other key issues related to our judicial and prosecutorial system. But these vile stories, about protecting the environment, we can best see the last two and a half months on the highway, on an international public road and other roads across Serbia. These people, the great environmental advocates, use these blockades to secure cheap political points. What if no one here in the National Assembly cares about healthy water, healthy air, healthy land. We all care, but they can't tell us that they're more permanent than we care about. What they care about most is that they are not, therefore, attacking Alexander Vukic and SNS, in a position to open a cluster of environmental protection projects, to manage environmental protection projects, and that this money that comes from Europe, which we will invest in healthier rivers, water streams, healthier countries, they can take and put in their pockets. Why didn't Minister Oliver Dulic, who came from the DS, who led the Ministry of Ecology, do it, but did the action "Let's Clean Serbia" and put millions of dinars in his pockets? We need to speak openly today, we need to speak transparently, which we do, almost a year here in the National Assembly. It's all open and clear. But it's obvious that in order for someone to get cheap political points, in order to get in touch with their own electoral body, they must constantly base their policies on lies and fiction. Therefore, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, once again I call on you to come together for a referendum on 16 January, to round up "yes", because this will show that we are acting as one serious and responsible state, as we have acted in the previous two years during the coronary pandemic of the virus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12064	I thank Mr. Kesar. The next is MP Serbian Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12065	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Serbian citizens, I wish you happy New Year's and Christmas holidays, all the best for you and your families this year and that we have many reasons to rejoice and celebrate this year, and above all to end this outbreak of the Coronal Virus. In this conference, I would say that we have had many historic and important decisions for our citizens and for the state, which the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have given us confidence in the previous elections to lead, led by the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic. When citizens give you confidence in that number in which they have given SNS and, above all, Alexander Vukic, you have a great responsibility to sincerely care for people, not demagogue, not by always talking to people just because they want to hear and what is pleasant to their ears, but sometimes hard things, sometimes what they do not like, sometimes and what is not popular, in order to ultimately strengthen their country, stabilised it and brought it to a situation that can truly, truly, truly, truly, be sustainable, to develop, to progress, but also when necessary, as in the previous year or two days, and significantly help their citizens because of the situation in which the whole world has been found, and therefore our country was no exception in this case during this coronary epidemic. As you know, the citizens of Serbia and our economy have felt it, Serbia has had and has enough money and helps and economics, but we are also helping our citizens. We helped, I'll start from the beginning, not just from these financial aids that are of course very important, but first of all, we helped our population through health care so that it can choose the vaccine that it will receive, by getting a large amount of all the resources necessary to fight the crown of the virus and thus preserve countless lives in our country, and there's nothing more important and more valuable than that than human life. And it's the greatest success we've ever made in the past. Then, through stable public finances, through the full budget, we managed to help our economy, not to be fired, but to hire new workers, to open new jobs, new factories, to make people decide to open their businesses, to keep those who work stable, to survive this very difficult time and to enter after the end of this epidemic, this terrible infection that the whole world has attacked, in a more peaceful period of growth that we all hope to be expected to be in an even more significant amount than it has ever been. We have come into this situation, here, on this topic I am now returning to, which is current, which we are talking about, such as financial assistance to young people aged 16 to 29, that we can help young people with one amount that I would say is symbolic, someone says is small, that it is nothing, that it is 90 euros because inflation has eaten 10 euros, they have no idea, they have no idea of their Luxembourg media, or their call analysts, nor has any idea of Dragan Gilas, nor have any idea of the Schools and others about it or what 100 euros is. It doesn't mean anything to them. They, I'd say, are even angry that we're making this decision today. I'd also say they're angry that we're giving the pensioners 20,000 dinars on February 14th. I'd say they're angry that we're giving health workers out of the budget money in this month 10,000 dinars on their accounts. Whenever citizens are given something, they get angry, when citizens get kidnapped, then it's the reason for fireworks, for celebrations, because it's simply the model by which they're used to, that part of the opposition to work, i.e. Kidnapping. Only when it's taken out of the budget and put into tycoon, criminal and theft pockets, when that money comes out of the country, when it's not used here to increase consumption, to fill the budget again, to have some means to turn around, to help the citizens, to invest, to invest in the economy, to invest in our growth, they don't like it. Let's remember what they liked. For them, growth was minus 3%. It was growth for Dragan Djilas, for Jeremic, for Obradovic, for Bork, for Tadic, for all others who were then members of the regime, in one way or another. For them, the minus was growth, because the minus in citizens' pockets, and that's the thick minus, was plus in Dragan Gilas' pocket, and because he can't even explain to us today how from the minus 3% in this country his companies managed to traffic 619 million. And that's why we're coming into this other situation today so his friend can buy one of the prime ministers. Then I wonder, isn't he the only owner really, maybe on paper alone, but whose money is that, that's not the money of each of us? If it wasn't for money and those who wonder, they say you're giving us our money. Well, of course, we're all paying taxes, paying some bills, filling the state's budget, so the state has the resources to invest in what's necessary to make it work. All of us, in a certain way, participate in filling that budget so that we can have money. Today, thanks to domestic business and work, the state has the opportunity to help young people today with 100 euros, and health workers with 10,000 dinars, and our pensioners over 1,800,000 to help with 20,000 dinars. These aren't small amounts. They're not small for someone, they're big for someone. But, you know, once you give a pensioner 20,000 dinars, it means a lot to him. That means health care professionals, too. In my opinion, it means in one symbolic sense that people feel that they have a state, that they have a state behind them, that they have a state that's not weak, that they have a state that's strong, and for the first time it's strong, after who knows how many decades that they can stand behind every man and tell people, you're not alone. When it's the hardest, when the biggest crises in the world, when many others can't and don't help their citizens, we have money and we want to help our people. What, couldn't this government of the Republic of Serbia have said – we won't, what we have to give. You have your wages. You have your pensions. We'll leave it alone or we'll spend on other things. No, I don't. We want every man to know and feel that the state is with him, that we are with every man in Serbia with all our hearts. They will say, "You do it for your choice." Well, because of the elections since the stabilised finances, salaries and years have been raised every year. Were there elections every year? It wasn't every year that there were elections, but it's normal for you to have more money to help your citizens and increase your wages and pensions as much as you can. Well, if we had a growth of over 7% to help people feel it, too, to feel it in their pocket. Now comes the Serbian New Year, that grandparents can plan on buying their grandchildren a gift, that they can plan their lives, that they can plan to buy medicines, that they can plan to eat, that they can plan to pay taxes and have some money and stay, that young people can have that money to buy themselves something, to see and say, I got this money. The state did something and created something. We've sacrificed ourselves for something over the past few years to have today. While some others were running this country, we had nothing. What were they giving? As I recall, they left us only the debts and the green interest we paid, so some of their debts are still due today. Imagine how much money we'd have today to help young people and pensioners and everyone else if we hadn't had that plague in power like Dragan Gilas. I'm going to call him - Mr. Macola, because I think of him as the man with the macho in his hand who goes and destroys everything that's been done in this country. Imagine, God forbid, that plague, in the form of Dragan Gilas, should return to power in Serbia, what it would look like. Those who tried to break into this home last year to burn it down, to tear it down, to steal the paintings again, to rob everything they arrive at, imagine that it would return to Serbia to power. What would Serbia look like then, and what would this society be like if those who have been robbed, kidnapped, skin-deposed Serbian citizens today bought football clubs across Europe, bought villas, yachts, planes, spent millions of dollars from Serbia, filling their foreign currency accounts across Europe and the world? Imagine that country. What would Serbia turn into if it was again poisoned by Dragan Gilas from the scene, God forbid, the mayor, the president, the prime minister, where he imagines himself? Fortunately for Serbia's citizens, it will only end up being imagined. We know how it's gonna end on April 3rd. I'm just inviting people to be responsible. We know what this man is saying today -- if I lose the election and if Serbian citizens don't vote for me on April 3rd, watch out, he's threatening Serbian citizens, you'll see that then the blood will flow through the streets of Serbia if I don't win the elections, because I'm very smart, because I have a machine brain, because I know I'm counting percentages, so I'm going to show you, stupid citizens, what happens if you don't give me a vote. Don't be afraid of that plague. Once he was in Serbia, he was once and never returned to where he wanted to return. It shows both his politics and what he is and as a man. It shows one more thing. We will have in Serbia a referendum on the amendment of the Constitution on 16 January. A very important day for this country. We all MPs of the SNS talk daily to citizens and I believe that other colleagues have faced countless times with certain objections to the work of the judiciary. It's something that's normal. Systemically, in previous decades, Serbia's judiciary has been destroyed, corruption has been introduced into it. Things were done when the judges were elected, when the judges were dismissed. Let us remember how the Democrats of the yellow company once did it, while Gilas, along with Tadic, was the supreme god in this country, how judges were elected, and how they were expelled from work. Let us remember that period, and then we can know and make it clear why they are in order not to go to the referendum, and even if it comes out, to circle – not and what does it mean to round – not in a referendum on the amendment of the Constitution? Don't make a mistake among the citizens, tell them anything in the Constitution will change except the area of justice, to prosecutors, in the way the judges choose. So, what do we have to do, leave the judges to be elected in parliament, so that there is how much – so much chance of politics affecting the judiciary? I guess we fought for the judiciary to be independent and independent far more than it was before 2012. That's not controversial. But isn't this a good solution? Don't they all say, constantly full of mouths about an independent judiciary, so when you get to the point where the judiciary becomes completely independent of politics, there's no more politics, no way to affect it in Serbia, then they say -- that's a bad solution. We don't want to talk about it. That's what you do before the election. What difference does it make when something changes if it's the right thing to do, whether it's before the election or after the election? It is better than later, but they are for it to never be done, never to change things in Serbia, never to change what they have done in Serbia. They imagine it so that they can come to this Assembly, of course by beating, destroying, burning, and then as one thieving, criminal majority can choose absolutely all their judges, all their prosecutors, to put that corrupt, mob system back in place and to completely manage this country until they turn off the last light in it. This is how by changing the Constitution we will prevent such a thing from happening in Serbia and happening again. No one else in Serbia will be able to influence the judiciary in the way he could have done it by 2012. The judiciary will be independent, the prosecution alone, judges will not be elected on the political line, by political decisions and directives, and Serbian citizens will be getting richer, Serbia will be happier and more advanced, and Dragan Gilas will and where we will not be interested with Solak after the election. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12066	I thank Mr Filipovic. The next is MP Alexander Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12067	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with an associate, respected fellow Members of Parliament and fellow Members of Parliament, certainly today's agenda is very interesting for each of us as MPs, but it also gives us a dose of pride that we will be able to pass one such law today and thus allow young people 16 to 29 years of age to receive these 100 euros as a small kind of help from our country. I think that fellow MPs in the past have made it clear in their presentations how important this is, but how much this act shows the economic stability and strength of our country. I think that as MPs today, we can be very proud of everything that has been done in the past two years since we've been in office, a little less than two years, but also, we as representatives of the SNS are extremely proud of the results that the SNS Government has, above all, president of our party Aleksandar Vukic, has created and posted since 2014, and the results that we all together as one great team with our citizens have created is exactly what politics are essentially and serve and why politics is important, and that is to fight every day for the better life of our country's citizens. I think that even as MPs, although this is the first session of this year, we must also look back at everything that has happened over the past period and clearly show the difference between the period between the SNS authorities and the people who are making up a new DS regime, again gathered around Dragan Dilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic and all those clicks, which offers no new solution, offers no other policy, nor wants to compete with how many new kilometers of highways they will make, how many factories they will open or how many new jobs they will provide. They do not want to participate in such a discussion and controversy, for the simple reason that they themselves are aware that when they were in power, when they were able to do something good for the citizens of Serbia, they did absolutely nothing but take care of themselves and their pockets and their associates' pockets. That all the truth that I am saying also confirms that the closest associate of Dragan Gilas, you must imagine, has become the owner of one team in the English Prime Minister's League of Southampton, a club that has a great reputation in England, but also in the world itself, but we must also stress that the English League and the most visible league in the world, so when you take only that information that man who was the closest associate of Belgrade Mayor, former minister, one of the most prominent officials of DS Dragan Gilas, has made it possible to buy one football club, the question is asked himself – what else can Dragan Gilas buy with all the money he has alienated from citizens and Belgrade and Serbia? What's more important, and based on what I'm talking about, is concrete data that shows how it lived until 2011, and what the situation is today. Unemployment in 2011 was above 23%, and this year, in fact in 2021, it was somewhere below 9%. If we're talking about the average salary, that's what my colleagues mentioned in their presentations, we must always point out that the average salary in that period, so when everyone collapsed, when the citizens were out of work, on the street, when everyone was just poorer, Dragan Gilas was creating his own empire along with this School, and the citizens were then working for an average salary of 330 euros. In 2021, the average salary will be over 600 euros in December. This only shows you how responsible policy, how smart financial management, but also responsible by planning each cost, investment comes to a drastic increase and improve the standard of living of all citizens in our country. If we want to talk about the minimum wage that these representatives of the former regime are often called upon, we cannot help but point out that the minimum earnings during that period were around 150 euros. Today it is over 300 euros and will continue to grow. All this data only clearly shows how much progress our country has made over a period of only 10 years. When I say only, I must stress it for a simple reason, if we had the responsibility of that decade when the DS regime ruled at all levels and ruined our country, we can only ask ourselves where our Serbia would be today. However, some politicians from that period, not all of them can say, but some politicians from that period, and yet all together in the DS team, and now again in different parties, but again in one front today want to deceive citizens to present themselves as some new option, all for a reason to get another chance to make themselves as rich as possible and to further increase their business empires. I am glad that we are able to witness historical data today, and they are looking at that last year, so in 2021, we ended up with as much as 3.9 billion euros in foreign direct investment. If you consider that in the last two years, the years of the coronary pandemic virus, that when the whole world has been hit by a major crisis and when EU member states are recording more unemployment and people are out of work, in our country, factories are also opening up, but stone foundations are being laid for some future factories. To tell the truth, in addition to that, it tells us that only last year through new factories and jobs we provided jobs for 12,490 people, so I just want to ask the representatives of the former regime -- how many jobs did they open while they were in power? They can't boast of this information because their government marked disaster, thousands of factories closed, more than half a million people left on the street and out of work. When we talk about young people today and this 100-euro aid, you know, I remember very well when that government promised us those famous 1,000 euros. Of course, like everything they said back then, they promised, there remained a naked lie and a lie. Now, with ridicule, they're looking at this 100-euro youth assistance and they say it's not a figure I don't know. Perhaps for them, not possibly, certainly for people who have millions scattered around the world and who drive cars and jeeps worth more than a hundred thousand euros, that's not some number. But it's not all about the material, it's not all about the 100 euros. There is something that clearly shows the commitment of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS policy headed by President Aleksandar Vukic to help young people at least in this way. All that we are doing today and the laws that we, as MPs, have adopted in the past are in the interests of the citizens of Serbia and in the interests of these young people, because it is the policy of the SNS that we want our people, our future, the generations that are coming and our children to stay in their country, to work here, and to make our country a further promotion. I know that in 2022, there will be challenges and I know that many people do not want to see our country either strong or stable. Strong and stable Serbia bothers many, but before that and above all, many are disturbed by an independent statesman like Aleksandar Vukic. The pressures he's put on are incredible. But as long as the people in our country support this responsible policy, I don't care about Serbia. That is why, as my fellow MPs before me, I will invite citizens to come to the referendum on Sunday and support the referendum, vote for "Yes", although many deceive them, even though today you have opposition parties who are also trying to sabotage this referendum by bringing out a bunch of lies and lies. I call on citizens to think for themselves and to believe in the facts and to be aware that the referendum has nothing to do with Rio Tint, or the change of preamble, has nothing to do with what the representatives of the former DS regime tell them on a daily basis, and, above all, Dragan Gilas. And to the very end, respected MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, on April 3rd is very close and I think that in the next few weeks an aggressive campaign that false environmentalists, the failed politicians, the overrich tycoons will be sharpened. I will also take this opportunity to call on the citizens to start thinking today about where our Serbia was seven or eight years ago and where it is today and to just consider what I was talking about and my colleagues about and how to handle it on the day they go to the elections. I am convinced that on April 3rd, we will once again show that most Serbia supports Serbia's progress and development, higher wages, higher pensions, a greater chance and a better perspective for all young people, but I am also convinced that people who only care about their own interests and their own pocket will try to reduce or undo the result. Therefore, respected citizens of Serbia, think already today and therefore lead to whom you will vote on April 3rd. If we take into account all the results achieved, all the promises fulfilled, as well as the vision that we have as SNS and which President Aleksandar Vukic has, I am convinced that you will then decide and give your vote to the SNS. With this, respected minister, as a representative of the government, I wish you many more good and such laws that will be in the interest of the citizens of Serbia and that in the coming period all together, as one great team, we create an even better place for all of our children and generations to come. Thank you and live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12068	Thank you, Mr. Mirkovic. The next MP, Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12069	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, a respected minister with an associate, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this bill provides assistance to our youth, as we see from 100 euros and between 16 and 29 years of age in these difficult pandemic times. This is not the only aid to our youth, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the states of Serbia in general, and on a proposal in the first order of the President of the Republic, gave to our youth. These are next to these 100 euros new jobs, 280 factories. That is what the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of Serbia and the state of Serbia have offered our youth. New highways, new homes of health, new schools, new institutes, new kilometers of sewerage and kilometers of water, new museums, "Belgrade on water", all given to our youth, made because of our youth and new kilometers of high-speed railways, etc. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have not during the past period during the former government had the opportunity to talk about the successes and government. On the contrary, what they touched, they destroyed everything. These days, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, when I read in the press that Dragan Gilas will run for mayor of Belgrade or president of the state, I remained shocked by the insolence of that man. Imagine he has the courage to run for mayor of Belgrade again? It is a man who will certainly, respected Belgrade citizens, remain recorded in the Belgrade city's annals as the worst mayor in Belgrade's history from ancient times to today. It is a man who, before entering political functions, was a common nudity, and when he left his political post, became a tycoon with hundreds of millions of euros in income. You, respected citizens, are witnesses to this. As mayor of Belgrade, Gilas only worked marketingly. This was an opportunity for you to see the respected Belgrade citizens, and not only you, but also the former US ambassador to Belgrade in 2009 Cameron Manter, who then said, I quote -- Gilas told me that his plan for Belgrade was only marketing, not reality, a quote. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia and respected Belgrade citizens, you are eyewitnesses that Dragan Gilas led only marketing and did not lead the construction of Belgrade. I will now list a few things in Belgrade, and you, respected Belgrade citizens, will testify whether it's true or not, I'll just remind you of that. Thus, Dragan Gilasu's construction of the National Museum in Belgrade was for him only marketing for no less than 13 years, and as you saw, the respected Belgraders, for Alexander Vukic, was a reality. So for Dragan Gilas the construction of the Museum of Contemporary Art in New Belgrade was just marketing for no less than 14 years, and for Alexander Vukic the reality. You are witnesses, respected Belgrade citizens and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So for Dragan Gilas, building Belgrade on water was just marketing for many years, and for Aleksandra Vukica the reality. You are witnesses, respected Belgrade citizens and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So for Dragan Gilas the construction of the temple of St. Sava on Vračar was only marketing and for Alexander Vukic the reality, the reality. You are witnesses, respected Belgrade citizens and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thus, building a fast track in Belgrade – Novi Sad was only marketing for Dragan Gilas, and for Alexander Vukic, as you can see, in a month's time it will be put on the market, is reality. Dear Belgraders, you are witnessing this. So for Dragan Gilas, the resuscitation of Jelizara Smederevo was just marketing, and for Alexander Vukic the complete reality. You are the witnesses of the respected Belgrade citizens. So for Dragan Gilas, the reconstruction of the Republic Square in Belgrade was just marketing for many years, and for Aleksandra Vukic, the complete reality. You are witnesses, respected Belgrade citizens. So for Dragan Gilas the construction of Belgrade Metro was just marketing for many years, and for Aleksandra Vukic the reality. You are witnesses, respected Belgrade citizens. So for Dragan Gilas, raising the monument to Stefan Nemanja was just marketing, and for Alexander Vukić the complete reality. You are witnesses, respected Belgrade citizens and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So for Dragan Gilas the construction of the House of Health in Borca, Belgrade, for years was just marketing, and for Alexander Vukic the reality. You are witnesses, respected citizens of Borce, Palilula and Belgrade and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So for Dragan Gilas the construction of the Clinical Centre in Belgrade was for years only marketing, and as you can see, Alexander Vukic's reality. You are witnesses, respected Belgrade citizens. I could list for another hour what Dragan Gilas was just marketing and for Alexander Vukic the reality, but this is also enough to see how much Dragan Gilas was, and today, a great pest for Belgrade and for the state of Serbia in general. Dragan Gilas is a man who was only designed to destroy and not build. So in December 2021, he said, quote, believe it or not, respected citizens, but these are his words, I quote -- when I win power, I will take 100 of the best lawyers and stop all the works done by this government in Belgrade and the Republic of Serbia, I will complete the quote. Can you, dear citizens, believe that this is Dragan Gilas, otherwise for Europe, Gilas utters these words? So it's not his intention to build, it's his intention to crash. This is what respected citizens mean, then, that there will be no "p" of our salaries or "p" pensions. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Dragan Gilas is not interested in the state of Serbia, he was never interested in it, and he would not mind intonating our anthem at the beginning of the school year. So his TV "New S" spat out the state of Serbia for deciding to intonate the national anthem at the start of the school year. That Gilas does not hold the citizens of the Republic of Serbia also shows that on 14 August 2021 he said, quote -- Serbian citizens who vote for Alexander Vukic and SNS are monkeys, finished quote. So, respected citizens, 70% of you for Dragan Gilas are monkeys. That's how Mr. Gilas honors you, and for Europe, Gilas. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Gilasov has failed to run for SANU candidate Goran Markovic has for years insulted and humiliated Alexander Vukic, the state of Serbia and you, respected citizens. I thought he might have calmed down these days, but I think he's got no intention, but he's still doing it. On July 4th 2019, Goran Markovic insulted President Vukic and citizens of the Republic of Serbia with the words of the village coachman. Markovic then said, quote – all those who praise Vukic and support him are worthy of contempt, he was also a commoner, for hygienic reasons I do not want to stay with him in the same room, finished quote. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, can you believe this failed candidate for SANA Goran Markovic said? In addition to insulting and humiliating the president and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Goran Markovic humiliates Serbia's own state, which he said on November 25th 2021, quote -- Serbia is bottom bottom, finished quote. And not only that, but Goran Markovic goes on to humiliate President Vukic unremembered in the history of poverty and says, quote -- if I had to make a movie about Alexander Vukic, I would have to throw up all the time, finished the quote. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, can you believe that this is pronounced by the failed candidate for SANU Goran Markovic? On 21 August 2020, the moral gromada Goran Markovic called on his colleagues to fence themselves from the rise of the monument to Stefan Nemanja, and that is not all, respected citizens. The moral gromada Goran Markovic did not stop, so President Vukic and the regime called terrorists by saying in 30.8.2019, I quote -- in this terrorist Vucic's regime there is no point in going to elections, a quote ended. That's what the failed candidate said about SANA. Goran Markovic, a moral gromada, threatened his colleagues on December 15th 2021 only because they co-operate with the authorities when he said, I quote -- many of my colleagues are common losers, they represent the occupiers, and they are known to pass the occupiers when freedom is won, finished the quote. Dear citizens, respected artists, you see how your colleague honors you and how your colleague threatens you, a failed candidate for the Serbian Academy, Goran Markovic, therefore threatens you with death. It is true that Goran Markovic also threatened Zoran Djindjic and claims he did not, and he did. Let him take a look at his statement from February 14, 2003, a month before the assassination of Zoran Djindjic when he said, quote - I would very much like to see a man who has a format that could stand up to Djindjic, finished a quote. Did you, sir, fail to run for the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, Goran Markovic or did you not? Only a month later, Goran Markovic's wish came true. Moral size, Goran Markovic continues to insult Alexander Vukic. So on July 4, 2019, he said, quote – Vukić was a primitive figure, he was and remained a commoner, the crowd was his natural environment, finished quote. We are all a crowd, all who support it and 70% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia for Goran Markovic. Goran Markovic, the moral size of the invitation to the murder of Aleksandar Vukic by saying on 16 December 2021, I am quoting – I hope, however, that Vučić has a Ceausevski in front of his eyes, finished quote. And look at the wonders, NGOs, news associations and so on. The elite instead of condemning the statements, Goran Markovic, put themselves in his defence and thus directly became his accomplices in the dishonest business. I once again recommend to Goran Markovic from the bottom of my heart that all the abominations he spoke about Alexander Vukic, his state of Serbia and his citizens of the Republic of Serbia watch and put in the living room to remind themselves of their high reach of civilization and democratic culture. Still, when he wakes up every morning, he'll look in the mirror. He will see in the mirror of a beady bumblebee, full of hatred for his President Vukic, for his country of Serbia and for its citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I'm afraid it will explode from hatred. God help him. Goran Markovic said, visiting Gilas TV "N1", that he had written philosophy, to quote -- to fill in the dark gaps he has on him, a finished quote. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Goran Markovic, a failed candidate for the Serbian Academy of Science and Art has so many dark gaps on him that he needs three lives and three colleges to fill them. I therefore strongly recommend to him, at the temple of St. Sava on Vračar for prayer, Gorana Marković. And I recommend that he enroll in the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade, and let him choose a subject that will be called "the educated function of a person" completed. Perhaps, respected citizens, Goran Markovic has changed. It's the wish of all of us. Goran Markovic, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic daily muds President Vukic, muds Serbia and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, until then Aleksandar Vukic leads a policy of peace, security policy, a policy of health for all of our citizens and in the environment, an open Balkans policy, a policy of economic progress and the construction of the Republic of Serbia and a policy of accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, all due to the future of our country. For that matter, Serbia has lived!
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12070	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. The word is by MP Viktor Jevtovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12071	Thank you, Chairman Dr. Orlic. Dear Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will talk about the proposal for a law on the temporary register of citizens of the Republic of Serbia from 16 to 29 years old, which pays financial assistance to alleviate the consequences of the Kovid 19 pandemic. The responsible policy led by Serbia's President, Aleksandar Vucic and the Serbian Government, where it is a fundamental postulate of concern for every citizen, primarily in the time of this monster, which has affected the whole world, where besides helping pensioners, citizens, maternity, constant productive measures, responsibility and work, we also think of our young people. With this support that will only be one in a series of next we show concern for our young people who are one of the fundamental foundations of society. Starting with the "My First Salary" project, we continue to work and fight for young people, not only to stay in Serbia, which thanks to responsible policy by Alexander Vukic now among the leading countries in the region, and also to direct foreign investments, which are now twice the size of the year 2019, amounting to 3.9 billion euros, which in the arena of the global economic market is an incredible success. This has been achieved thanks to the strong and responsible policy of Alexander Vukic. The fantastic results that we achieved in the previous year in the economy, infrastructure, to strengthen our health system, we have shown that we can compete with the biggest and most successful in many fields and win. Unlike the yellow tycoon company, which would love anything but for Serbia to advance and record successes, it is better and stronger in all fields, and young people, they were not even a letter on paper, but only a means of manipulation and for which they did nothing at all. Dragan Gilas, in this football match through his tycoon media, is constantly lying about auto goals, resenting every success of Serbia, because they would not want Serbia to be as strong as it is today, to advance and record successes so that tomorrow would be even better and stronger. They were used to those times, which we left far in the past when Serbia was weak, when their kabadiahs were able to blaspheme and waste people's money on white world accounts, thinking only of personal interest, and Serbia could be influenced by anyone. Of course, who they could benefit from and do whatever they wanted in it. The historic decision that Alexander Vukic made to cut the roots of such a devastating policy, and we are finally starting to take care of our own interests, and that is one of the most important things that we've learned in previous years, that we have to fight for what's important and that no one on the side will provide it, but not to give it to us, but rather to make their own efforts to stop, slow down, because it's more appropriate for them when we don't ask ourselves, when we don't decide for ourselves and when we're not as strong as we are today, to fight for our own personal interest both in the state and national spheres. And here we face incredible pressures. Sometimes they're absolutely amazing, but we have to count on it, aware of the fact that in the development and victory of Serbia in every field we're making wins, we're going forward thinking of young people who are going to lead this country tomorrow and decide on all of us and stay in the country where they see the future, not that they're attracted to football courts in England that the tycoon octopus boasts instead of being ashamed of, but we've seen that from them, because what they're smart about is they're proud of. As they pride themselves on unscrupulous attacks on President Aleksandar Vukic's family, because they have no other arguments, but only hatred and deception, as well as the sniper's aim for President Aleksandr Vukic. The target was directed by those who threw Serbia at the bottom of their madness. The target is also aimed at the majority of Serbian citizens who think differently and do not want to be any longer the trigger of their devastation of everything that is Serbian. For these thieves and pests, the insurmountable obstacle is Aleksandar Vukic and the people of Serbia, who will say no to them on December 3rd and send them into oblivion of the political past and that rot they left behind while they were in power and let them stay there. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12072	I thank Mr. Yevtovic. The word is Ilija Živocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12073	Dear citizens, he believes that the adoption of this law that we are talking about today is extremely justified and that it will have positive effects on the Republic of Serbia. An adequate category of population has been selected, which will likely affect the effects of this assistance. Such an opportunity to provide such an important help, when we look at the number of our citizens and receive it, it would not be possible for the state of Serbia not to lead a responsible policy. Serbia today is a country that is primarily responsible for its citizens, unlike the previous regime whose goal was exclusively to be rich at the expense of an ordinary man. During the last regime, the factory was sold for several euros, fired hundreds of thousands of workers, closed almost all factories in which a large number of our citizens worked, devalued the dinar by 50%, and their pockets existed more and more full. A few clicks around Dragan Gilas have become rich at the expense of Serbia's economic downturn. So while Gilas was rich and the citizens were poor, Vuk Jeremic boasted of national money traveling around the world, living in the most expensive hotels in the world. Today, this same wolf, Jeremic, calls for some rematchism. He wished American hotels with 10 stars and overpriced wine and cigars, so he would come to power with violence, eliminate anyone who remembered his boast about our expense, while hospitals and schools failed, and the only highway we had was from Tito's time. He calls for rematchism. A man who literally justified Kosovo Albanians for independence. He would judge us, ban us and ban us. By the way, it is very interesting that neither he nor anyone else in the opposition has publicly reported condemning new attacks on Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. They pretend that Kosovo and Metohija do not exist. I understand that we do not agree on certain political views, we do not agree on many things, but I really do not understand that there is someone in Serbia who wants to come to power, and that there are pretend that Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija do not exist, that there are no hundreds of our monasteries and churches, that they pretend that there are no graves of our ancestors. Gilasu, Marinika, Jeremic, they are not interested in churches, monasteries, or graves of ancestors, or our Serbian children in Kosovo and Metohija. They are only interested in how to reach the Serbian budget, to re-rectify the media, to rebuild the construction of how they dealt with the Revolution's Boulevard, so their co-workers ended up in court. Or to rebuild as they built a bridge on Ada, which turns out to be a gathering of two continents, not Banovo Brdo and New Belgrade. To come back to power and rob the state budget, they don't run away from anything. Nothing is sacred to them, not even what every Serb is, and that's family. We Serbs have always had the rule that the family is sacred and that the family is not touched. Whatever conflict you have with anyone, the Serbian rule applies to us – we don't touch family and children. That's how it's always been, but not for Gilas and his like-minded. They only care about their families, and everyone else is irrelevant and expendable. How else do you explain the daily attacks on President Vukic's family? What is the psychological profile of Dragan Gilas and Marinika and Tepic that exists in their head, when every day through their media they invent lies about the brother, father, son and daughter of the president? All day long, every day of the year, without one political, economic or any other programme and plan, Dragan Djilas and Marinika Tepic present the most disgusting lies about members of the country's family. This dehumanization, this spilling of media mud has become everyday. I really have to wonder what the point is. Is it their purpose to force Vukic to resign to bring down tensions, to save the family of the media lynch, and to leave Serbia to them for mercy and mercy? I don't think that's gonna happen. Is it the preparation of Serbian citizens to attempt a violent coup in which foreign services and the army of mercenaries would help them? What if it doesn't work? What if we, as a state of Serbia, stop such a scenario by operating measures and work? What's the next option? Something that their loved ones and brothers failed to do, as they called certain leaders of the Belivuk clan, Miljkovic, and what were the snipers prepared for? What's Belivuku gonna do when all the criminals come to his feet and get shot face to face? Why do they need a professional sniper? Is it a tactics that was applied directly before the murder of Zoran Djindjic, which preceded months of media mutilation? The matrix is the same literally, the letter in the letter. It is up to us to stay on our feet, solid and stable, and to be on the front line of the defence of the state of Serbia and President Alexander Vukic, to talk to the people and every drop of Gilas and Marinika's lies, because the time has come when there is no turning back. As the heroes from Koshara and Paštrik said – There is no going back, Serbia is back. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12074	Thank you. The word is Dr. Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12075	Dear President, Mr. Orlic, the Honorable Minister with her associate, distinguished fellow MPs, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is today only a confirmation that the state of Serbia cares for young people, that President Aleksandar Vukic cares for young people. This assistance to young people from one hundred euros aged 16 to 29 is a big deal. The big deal is not only about this financial value, but also one indicator of concern and attention for young people. During yesterday's day and afternoon, I was contacted by many parents who had children aged 16, 17 and 18, my older son was 16, and everyone who called me was delighted with the actions of the Serbian government and President Aleksandr Vukic. Not so much because of 100 euros, some who have called from more wealthy families, some from a little poorer, but are delighted with the attention of one human, with one confirmation of youth care. Today, it's 100 euros, and before New Year's, we passed a law regarding helping families for a firstborn child. Also, there was increased help for the second child born, as well as for the third child born. So, all that we discussed at the end of December and today just confirms that the state cares about young people, that we care about our future. When we say the slogan "Alexander Vukic - For Our Children", we confirm it every day as both the Serbian Progressive Party and we as MPs and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In the end, I want to look back on the upcoming referendum. I call on all citizens of the Republic of Serbia to round up, in a referendum on 16 January, to, to circle up, to change the Constitution from the judiciary, to circle around to continue strengthening the independent judiciary and the independent prosecutor's office, to round up that for Serbia, for the continuation of European integration. Because if the referendum succeeds, and I am convinced that it will succeed and that we will change the Constitution in the area of justice, there will never be another catastrophic situation from 2009 and 2010, when yellow, the Democratic Party and their satellites have created a chaos in the judiciary. Now the judiciary will be even more independent, the prosecution will be independent, foreign investors will invest in a legally regulated state and domestic investors will be carefree because they will know that even if there is ever a change in government, and the change in government is normal, that the judiciary will be independent, and the prosecution will be independent. It is just a confirmation that we do not want the politicised judiciary and the prosecution or the party, but we want it to be the way it should be, in the interest of the state of Serbia and its citizens, because the state of Serbia is today leading a responsible policy, and the best policy we have is that policy led and implemented by our President Aleksandar Vucic. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12076	Thank you. The last on the list to be reported is the People's MP, Miodrag Lint.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12077	I thank, honourable chairman, respected minister, ladies and gentlemen MPs, as well as previous speakers, for the adoption of a law aimed at helping young people from 16 to 30 years of age at the level of 100 euros justifiable by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as a number of other measures that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has taken in the previous period and will take in the next period. I remind you that soon there will be a payment of 10,000 dinars for health workers, and in February a payment of 20,000 dinars for pensioners is expected. What I would like to point out in my brief statement is that we have two target groups that have not been covered by the government of the Republic of Serbia since the beginning of the corona of the virus. One of them is pensioners who are related to and originating in the territory of the countries that originated in the former Yugoslavia. It is about 125,000 pensioners, of which 59,000 from today's Croatia, 41,000 from today's Bosnia and Herzegovina and about 25,000 from Slovenia, Macedonia and Montenegro. I would like to remind you that the vast majority of these pensioners who are related to and originating in the former Yugoslavia are not users of the PIO Serb Fund, an increasingly small part of them are not, and that was the reason for the government of the Republic of Serbia not to pay the group of citizens for financial assistance. I would like to remind you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia paid two times 9,000 dinars to help pensioners in 2020. This year it was 6,000 dinars, and as I said in February another 20,000 dinars are expected to be paid for pensioners' money. I have to say that in the previous period, I've been called by a large number of pensioners who are related and originating in the former Yugoslavia, these people are bitter, disappointed, dissatisfied. I think it's discrimination. The vast majority of these pensioners have very small pensions, lost protection benefits in countries where they made their pensions. They're very safe to meet their obligations. I would like to urge Ms. Matic to also transfer Prime Minister Brnabic and members of the government to find a mechanism and way to pay for monetary assistance and pensioners who are related and originating in the former Yugoslavia, and are not users of the PIO Serbia Fund. I think that these pensioners should also be helped to cope more easily with the consequences caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus. So it's a total of 35,000 dinars. So I repeat, 9,000 dinars in 2020, 6,000 dinars last year and 20,000 dinars will be paid in February this year. The second target group, which was not covered by these very useful measures, is about 26,000 Serbian citizens who still have the status of refugees and exiled persons, so they do not have a formal residence, a ID card, but have a registered residence and have refugee or exile tickets issued by the Serbian Ministry at the same place where personal tickets for Serbian citizens are issued. I remind you, in 2020, all full-time citizens received 100 euros in cash, last year the aid amounted to three tranches of 80 euros, so a total of 180 euros, with additional measures being paid to citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are full-time and who have residence. Only that 180-euro aid in 2020 and 2021 did not receive 26,000 exiled persons from the territory of Croatia and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I also urge Mrs Matic to transfer Prime Minister Brnabic to find a way to pay for these 26,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia who also have the status of refugees and exiled persons. These people also feel disappointed. I think it's discrimination. I think it would be fair and fair if these two target groups, 26,000 exiled persons from the territory of Croatia and the Federation of BiH, and about 25,000 pensioners from the former Yugoslavia were also covered, I repeat, by these very useful and responsible measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-01-11-0.u12078	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, I ask before concluding a principled search – whether the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who has not used his right under Article 96 want the word. Rules of Procedure? I conclude a principled search of the bill and thank all those who participated in today's work. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which determines Tuesday, January 11, 2022, starting at 1603 a.m. as the day for voting on the agenda of the 15th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda point, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask everyone to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 163 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the Proposal for a Law on the Interim Register of Citizens of the Republic of Serbia from 16 to 29 years of age which is being paid for monetary aid to mitigate the effects of the Kovid-19 disease pandemic caused by the SARS-KOV-2 virus, in principle. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote: total – 166, for – 163, did not vote – three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: total – 165, for – 163, did not vote – two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I am voting on the Proposal for a Law on the Temporary Register of Citizens of the Republic of Serbia from 16 to 29 years of age, which is being paid for financial assistance to mitigate the effects of the Kovid-19 disease pandemic caused by the SARS-KOV-2 virus in general. I conclude the vote: total – 165, for – 163, did not vote – two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal for a Law on the Interim Register of Citizens of the Republic of Serbia from 16 to 29 years old, which is paid for financial assistance to mitigate the effects of the Kovid-19 disease pandemic caused by the SARS-KOV-2 virus. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the single agenda item of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the 15th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly.
