ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12317	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 17th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the session is attended by 111 MPs. I remind you he's a member of 49. The Law on the National Assembly provides for a quorum for the work of the National Assembly when each decision is taken if a majority of all MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 147 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by Djordje Komlenski, Jelena Mihailovic and Dubravka Kralj. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the established agenda as soon as possible. You were presented with records of the 16th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2021 and the session of the 15th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. I would like to inform you that by verifying the tasks of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to those minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the list of the 16th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, held on 28 and 29 December 2021. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 156 for – 153, not three votes. I find that the National Assembly adopted the list of the 16th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2021. I am voting on the minutes of the 15th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th session, held on 11 January 2022. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 157 for – 155, not two. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Fifteenth Extraordinary National Assembly session in the 12th Assembly by majority. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the session of the 17th extraordinary session of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly, which was convened at the request of 237 Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure, you have been requested to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with a certain agenda contained in that request. For the session of the 17th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th session, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 10(1) Law on interoperability of the railway system; 2. Proposal for a decision on the termination of office for public prosecutors; 3. Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges who are first elected to the judicial office; 4. Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges who are first elected to the judicial office; 5. Proposal for a decision on the selection of a deputy public prosecutor; 6. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of the Republic Election Commission. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Articles 92, paragraphs 2, 192, paragraphs 3 and 195, and in accordance with Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on all these points of the agenda. Does Ambassador Aleksandar Martinovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 162, for – 159, the three voted. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. I just want to say that two meetings of the National Assembly will be held today before the debate begins. A special session dedicated to the declaration of amendments to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law will be held at 17.00 hours. Accordingly, the vote on these today's agenda points and the end of this session will be at 1600 hours, and without the usual break between 14:00 and 15.00 hours. In accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the sittings were invited to be attended by Marija Arangelović Juresh, Deputy Chairman of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, Tanja Vukicevic, election member of the State Council of Prosecutors and Aleksandar Malesevic, secretary of the state council of prosecutors. I'm asking MPs if they haven't already done it. to apply immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Articles 192, paragraph 3, Articles 195 and 201 and Article 157 paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on all points of the agenda. Does the Proposer, or representatives of the Proposer, want a word? First he has the word Marija Arangelovic Juresh, deputy president of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12318	Good afternoon. Dear Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, I would first of all like to thank you for putting the judge's election on the agenda today on a really short notice, which I assume required some additional effort. On the basis of Article 47. The Law on Judges, the High Council of the Judiciary, is in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" No. 53/21 of 28 May 2021 and in the daily list “Politika” of 1 June 2021 announced the choice of judges for the basic court in Vrbas. A total of 28 candidates from the court's assistants, lawyers and other persons filed for the election of judges for the Vrbas General Court. At a session held on 13 May 2021, the High Judicial Council adopted a Decision on the Education of the Commission of the High Council of the judiciary in the process of electing judges for the basic court in Vrbas. The expertise, competence and dignity of the candidates for the Vrbas General Court established on the basis of the provisions of the Law on Judges and the Rules of Procedure on the programme and the method of passing the examinations assessing the professionality and competence of the candidate for the judge to be elected for the first time. The High Council Commission has carried out a verification of the applications submitted by candidates for those courts and established their timeliness, eligibility and completeness. On 27 September 2021, the same was implemented for candidates for judges who were first elected, who applied for the election of judges at the Vrbas Court of Justice, candidates who were first elected to the Court of Justice for the first time, and who completed their initial training at the Judicial Academy. The final assessment shall be taken as a criterion of expertise and training in initial training at the Judicial Academy within the meaning of Article 45(a) of Article 3. The law on judges. On 9 December 2021, the High Council Commission of the judiciary also held talks with candidates for the first time who were elected and established a list of candidates for the Vrbas Basic Court, which was published on the website of the High Council of Justice. The full material from the examinations was delivered to the High Council of the judiciary by the Commission to the High Council. In accordance with the provisions of Article 49 of the Treaty, the Commission shall The Law on Judges, the High Council of the judiciary has obtained data and opinions on the expertise, skills and dignity of the candidates. Data and opinions were obtained from the authorities and organisations in which the candidate worked in the legal profession, and for the candidates coming from the courts an opinion was received from a session of all judges from which the candidate and the opinion of the session of all judges was given directly to the High Court. In accordance with Article 50(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law on judges, for candidates coming from the order of judicial assistants, has been provided an assessment of the work on the basis of Article 13(3). Law on the High Council of the Judiciary and Article 51(1). The Law on Judges, the High Council of the Judiciary at a session held on 23 December 2021, established a motion for a decision to elect judges and proposed the selection of three candidates for the Vrbas General Court to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The High Council of the Judiciary suggests candidate Daniel Rackov, a judicial assistant at the Vrbas Basic Court, Danil Ostojic, a judicial assistant at the Higher Court in Novi Sad and Milan Petrovic, a user of initial training at the Judiciary Academy. These three candidates, the High Council of the judiciary, are proposing to the National Assembly to elect a judge for the Vrbas General Court. You got the biographies of these candidates in the material, and if you're okay with me not reading, I don't think there's any need to keep you, I've kept you long enough. Also, if not a problem, I would move to the next item of the agenda, these are competitions published in Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia number 53/21 since 28 May 2021 and in the daily list "Politicals" from 1 June 2021 when the VSS is based on Article 47. The law on judges regarding the decision on the number of judges in courts announced the choice of judges for the basic court in Mladenov. Also, the VSS has announced in its "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" number 93/21 since 24 September 2021 and the daily "Politika" since 28 September 2021 the choice of judges for the First Basic Court in Belgrade and the Second Basic Court in Belgrade. Following the advertising procedure, the VSS on 13 May 2021 decided on the education of the VSS Commission in the process of electing judges for the basic court in Mladenov, and at a session held on 15 September 2021, it adopted a decision on the education of the VSS Commission in the process of electing judges for the First Basic Court in Belgrade and the Second Basic Court in Belgrade. The professionality, competence and dignity of the candidates for the basic court in Mladenovac, as well as the First Basic Court in Belgrade and the Second Basic Court in Belgrade, the VSS established on the basis of the provisions of the Law on Judges and Rules on the Programme and the method of laying down an examination assessing the professionality and competence of the candidate for the judge to be elected for the first time. The Commission has carried out a verification of the applications submitted by the applicants for those courts and established their well-being, eligibility and completeness. A total of 60 candidates from the court's assistants, lawyers and other persons submitted their applications for the election of judges for the basic court in Mladenov. In an ad to elect judges for Belgrade's First Basic Court, 207 candidates in the order of judicial assistants, lawyers and others filed the application. Advocating judges for the Second Basic Court in Belgrade, a total of 186 candidates from the order of judicial assistants, lawyers and others filed the application. So it's a very large number of candidates. On 27 September 2021, an exam was conducted for candidates for judges who were first elected, who applied for the election of judges at the Primary Court in Mladenov, and on 30 November 2021 an exam was conducted for candidates for judges who were first elected, who applied for the election of judges at the First Basic Court in Belgrade and the Second Basic Court in Belgrade. For the first time, candidates who have been elected to a judicial office in the basic court, who have completed initial training at the Judicial Academy, as a criterion of expertise and training, we have had a final assessment of the initial training at the Judicial Academy within the meaning of Article 45(a) of Article 3. The law on judges. The High Council Commission of the judiciary also held talks with this extremely large number of candidates for judges who were first elected and established a list of candidates for each court, published on the website of the High Council of Justice. The Commission sent VSS complete material with examinations and, in accordance with Article 49, in accordance with the provision of Article 49. The Law on Judges of the VSS has provided information and opinions on the expertise, competence and dignity of the candidates. Data and opinions were obtained from the authorities and organisations in which the candidate worked, i.e. in which the candidates worked in the legal profession, and for the candidates coming from the courts, an opinion was received from the sitting of all the judges of the court from which the candidate came, as well as the opinion of the session of all the judges of the Court of Justice. In accordance with Article 50(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law on judges for candidates coming from the order of judicial assistants also provided an assessment of the work. On the basis of Article 13(3), Law on the High Council of the judiciary and Article 51(1). The Law on Judges, the VSS at its session held on 20 January 2022 established a motion for a decision to elect judges and proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia the selection of 13 candidates for the first time in the Court of First Basic Court of First Instance in Belgrade of the VSS National Assembly, suggests the following candidates: Velibor Vojvodić, the user of initial training at the Judicial Academy; Bojan Žeželj, a judicial assistant at the First Basic Court in Belgrade; Bojan Jokic, a judicial assistant at the Court of Appeal in Belgrade; Danko Komnenović, judicial assistant in the Higher Court in Belgrade; Sonja Kusturic, judicial assistant in the Higher Court of Justice in Belgrade; Sanja Raco, judicial assistant in the Court of Appeal in Belgrade; Danko Simic, judicial assistant in the Higher Court in Belgrade; Ivana Stankovic, judicial assistance in Belgrade, justice in Belgrade, justice and justice in Belgrade. The personal and working biographies of these candidates were delivered to the National Assembly and are found in the material for the session. So if you don't mind, I wouldn't read them anymore, and if you want, I can. For candidates first elected in Belgrade's Second Basic Court, the VSS proposes the following candidates: Siniš Knezevic, a user of initial training at the Judicial Academy and Ivan Stevic, a judicial assistant at the Third Basic Court in Belgrade. As far as the Mladenovac Court is concerned, it proposes to Oliver Mircic, a judicial assistant at the Primary Court in Mladenova VSS to the National Assembly in Mladenova. Also, biography, personal and working, these candidates were delivered to the National Assembly, so I wouldn't read them in detail now. In the end, I might just like to point out that a really large number of candidates have applied to these competitions, especially for an ad relating to the First and Second Basic Court in Belgrade. We've done a whole competition procedure, we've put a lot of work into it and we've worked really hard, I think the VSS has been trying to propose the best candidates to the National Assembly. I ask the MPs to vote in the day of the vote, and that, as far as I hear it, will be supported today by proposals from the High Council of the Judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12319	Thank you. The word is made by the rapporteur of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, MP Djordje Dabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12320	I thank the chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable members of the VSS, and today we have proposals to elect judges and prosecutors. This was supported by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, all candidates who are before the MPs. I hope that the National Assembly in the voting day will support the vast majority of proposals and, in my personal name, congratulate them on this election and I hope that the work will be done in a committed and responsible manner. What is certainly after the referendum is certain that in the future, no more judges will be elected here in the National Assembly, and this is an indication that this government and this National Assembly assembly have understood the need to give an additional step towards ensuring that the simple judiciary is even more independent, the prosecution is even more independent and will remain recorded in history that we ourselves have limited our mandate in that part to make a better, greater legal certainty for all citizens and to give an additional impulse to our European path. That's what's certainly very important. It was a condition in the EU accession process, and it seems to me that after the referendum, and also in the referendum campaign, the only partner in Serbia, Alexander Vukic and the SNS, of course, were all of those in the opposition that declared themselves to join the EU, were ordinary hypocrites, I would say, and liars who simply represented their policy that they were entering the EU, and in fact they were all doing everything to prevent the referendum from going through, and such an important issue was brought down to one banal issue when it came to citizens coming to the referendum. They presented it as a vote-out for Alexander Vukic as well. You can imagine the amount of irresponsibility when it comes to people who plan to come to power again, to do what they did and with the shameful reform of the 2009 judiciary when directly politicians determined who could and who couldn't be a judge, who could and who couldn't judge and judge, and thus made up their minds for the later crimes they did, so that they would never be brought to justice. That's what they were doing, and that's what they wanted to do. That's why they were against the reform we've implemented, against the referendum itself. I say again that it is an EU indicator that knows who has a partner in Serbia. It is only the policy of President Alexander Vukic and the SNS who made such an effort to bring citizens to vote and confirm our European path through the referendum that was ahead of us. That's certainly what's very important. I think it's also important to keep a strong connection between the National Assembly and the VSS through a set of judicial laws. The relationship between the people and the choice of judges must not be lost. We have already elaborated this many times in the system of the three parity division of the government that Montescoje made two centuries ago. It is a system made so that one authority controls the other, and in this way I hope that through a set of judicial laws, we will define that a qualified majority is needed to make decisions in the VSS, namely what will be called the High Council of Prosecutors. I hope that it will be incorporated into the final text of the law when it comes to the agenda because it is important that there be no voting and that no one in this council can vote, but that decisions are made in agreement. It is very important that we maintain this strong bond between the National Assembly and the high bodies of judges and prosecutors. What I finally want to point out is that since the Assembly is disbanding in a few days, we have had a good, fair, responsible relationship with our citizens in the previous period. The fact that we have had the greatest cumulative growth in the past two years speaks enough for ourselves, speaks enough about the government's results, the results of the work and this is being called together by the National Assembly. With these results we go before our citizens, not to seek support on some topics such as the destruction of monuments, the transfer of the Makish cemetery, etc. We're going with concrete things. We have the results behind us. We have hundreds of miles of highways built. We have an announcement that we want to build so much more, that we want to make Serbia a better place to live so that our children stay here so that they don't seek happiness under another's sun. That's the message we want before the elections to send to our citizens. Responsibly to the April 3rd elections, we need to beat those who robbed this country, who have devastated this country, who continue to announce in their programmes that they have nothing new to offer Serbian citizens except robbery, devastion, the destruction of everything that is in this country today and that represents and personifies President Aleksandar Vukic's policy. I am quite sure that citizens will go to the polls largely and that in the April 3rd elections we will achieve a more convincing victory than ever. Thank you. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12321	Thank you. Tanja Vukicevic, an election member of the State Council of Prosecutors, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12322	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, you have before you a proposal by the State's Council of Prosecutors for the first election of 29 deputy public prosecutors in 17 basic public prosecutors in Serbia. In accordance with the provisions of Articles 78 and 79. The Public Prosecutor's Law, the State's Chief Prosecutors, published two ads for the election of deputy public prosecutors in the main public prosecutor's offices on 13 May 2021 and 23 June 2021. 205 candidates and all candidates registered who have complied with the conditions laid down by law for the selection of deputy public prosecutors have been subject to the procedure for determining the expertise, competence and dignity in accordance with the Programme Regulation and the way in which the examinations are to be carried out, in which the professionality and competence of the candidate first elected as deputy public prosecutor is to be checked, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 44 to 61. Rules of Procedure on the work of the State Council of Prosecutors. The State's senior prosecutors at meetings held on 31 May and 23 November 2021 have taken the decision on the education of the examination committee to conduct the exam, in accordance with the provisions of the Programme Regulation and the way in which the examinations are conducted to verify the professionality and competence of the candidate who is first elected as deputy public prosecutor. The examination committee conducted the examination on 24 June and 30 November 2021, in accordance with the provisions of the Programme Regulation and the method of passing examinations to check the professionality and training of candidates, after which the results were published on the Internet presentation of the State Council of Prosecutors. The state's major prosecutors at meetings held on 31 May, 16 September and 23 November 2021 also adopted a decision on the education of committees to conduct talks with candidates, who applied to the deputy public prosecutor's office in the main public prosecutors. A conversation was held with candidates who passed the exam for the assessment of expertise and skills and candidates who completed their initial training at the Judicial Academy. At a session held on January 25th, 2022, the state's chief prosecutor established a ranking of candidates for the election of deputy public prosecutors and published them on the Internet presentation of the Council. In accordance with the provisions of Article 56. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the State Council of Prosecutors, candidates had the right to object to the ranking list, and there were no objections to the published ranking list. After the adoption, the State's major prosecutors discussed the final ranking lists, as well as the information on candidates based on the attached application for advertising and the information submitted by the candidates and bodies in which the candidates worked or worked. Having primarily in mind the assessment of candidates, and then other information that the State's larger prosecutors had, the Council made a decision on a first election candidate proposal for deputy public prosecutors and so on. Zivkovic Biljana, deputy public prosecutor in Belgrade's First General Prosecutor, Milutinovic Ziljkic Jelena, prosecutor's assistant at the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, Miljkovic Gligorijević Jelena, senior adviser at the Appealal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, Mrdovic Aleksandra, is the beneficiary of initial training at the Judiciary Academy. A deputy public prosecutor in Belgrade's Second Basic Public Prosecutor, Simic Ivana, prosecutor's assistant at the Second General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade and Stojanovic Dejan, prosecutor's assistant at the First Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. A Deputy Public Prosecutor at the Third General Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade was proposed by Ilic Dunja, a source of initial training at the First Judicial Academy, Delic Maja, prosecutor's assistant at the Third General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade and Markovic Nikola, the prosecutor's assistant at the Third General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. Karac Stevan, judge's assistant at the Fair Court in Valjevo, was proposed as deputy public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Mionica. Sikimic Maja, prosecutor's assistant at the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Smederev, was proposed for the deputy public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in the Greater Plan. Podovac Rangelovic Ivana, prosecutor's assistant at the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Smederev, was proposed for the deputy public prosecutor at the General Prosecutor's Office in Smederev. Dejanovic Milos, prosecutor's assistant at the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Pancev and Lekic Aleksandra, the prosecutor's assistant at Vrsac's Main Public Prosecutor's Office, was proposed as deputy prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Pancev and Lekic Aleksandra. A deputy public prosecutor at the New Sad Public Prosecutor's Office was proposed by Damjanovic Olga, a prosecutor's assistant in the New Sad's Higher Public Prosecutor's Office, Eric Dragan, a prosecutor's assistant at the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad and Kostovski Damir, a prosecutor's assistant at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad. Krstekanic Marijana, prosecutor's assistant at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Subotica, was proposed. Petronijevic Stankovic Marija, prosecutor's assistant at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Krusevec, was proposed. For the deputy public prosecutor at the Royal Public Prosecutor's Office, Tipsarevic Dusan, prosecutor's assistant at the Royal Public Prosecutor's Office, was proposed. Ilic Maja, the prosecutor's assistant at Smederev's General Public Prosecutor's Office, was proposed for the deputy public prosecutor at the main public prosecutor's office in Pozarev. Mrljas Sanja, a user of initial training at the Judiciary Academy, was proposed as the deputy public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Pazar. Raicevic Marija, prosecutor's assistant at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Cacca, was proposed. For the deputy public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis, Aksic Mihajlo, the prosecutor's assistant in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis, Angelkovic Stefan, the beneficiary of the initial training at the Judicial Academy, Milenović Nina, the prosecutor's assistant at the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis, Mitrovica Ivana, the prosecutor's assistant at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis. Djurdjevic Đurdjic Đurdjica, the city's attorney for the city of Vranja, was proposed as deputy public prosecutor at the primary public prosecutor in Vranj. Marinkovic Cvetkovic Milena, prosecutor's assistant at the main public prosecutor's office in Leskovac, was proposed. How does the National Assembly, on the proposal of the State Council of Prosecutors, under Article 75(1)? The Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, elects a deputy public prosecutor to be elected to this post for the first time in three years, I propose that MPs adopt a proposal from the State Council of Prosecutors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12323	Thank you. We are moving on to the presidents, or authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12324	Thank you. I would like to refer to this Law on Railways and this authentic interpretation before I look back on the subject of the election of judges and prosecutors. I would like to point out that in the meantime we have become or become a country that has fast tracks and that is the Belgrade-Novi Sad railway and continues towards Budapest. That's something you should say hello anyway. It's a great success. Most people have a habit of saying things, and not so long ago, we had a situation where our trains go 10, 20 and 30 km per hour. It is rapidly working on the reconstruction of the railway, and I am saying this for a simple reason to commend the ministry and to encourage them to further work and rebuild the Belgrade-Bar railway that is very important to the end of our country, where I come from, primarily the municipality of Prepolje and the municipality of Priboj. It is very important that this railway is reconstructed to the end so that our business community and our businesses, but also our citizens and citizens can use more rail traffic which is the cheapest and when it comes to business, but also when it comes to us citizens who would travel through this kind of transport. I also want to point out that one part of the agreement is an important part between our party, the SPP and the SNS, and it is about building a railway to Novi Pazar. I mean, a lot of people have talked about it before, but no one's done any concrete work. First of all, the rickety president of Mufti Zukorlic worked on it, but so did all of us MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party. I'm saying that in collaboration with the Prime Minister's Office, part of the cabinet that works on the infrastructure, we've come to the realization that there really is no strategic document, that's how it was done before, that defines that railroad. It is now very important that both citizens and citizens of Novi Pazar, that the section of the railway from Raska to Novi Pazar is finally done, but also that the reconstruction of the railway from Kraljev to Raška happens. Simply, in order to have a complete development of the economy, it is necessary that we also have that kind of traffic very efficiently and that our goods can get from point A to point B as quickly as possible. As regards this part of today's debate, the election of judges and prosecutors, the Justice and Reconciliation Party, as the strongest Bosniak party, and our parliamentary club in the voting day will support your proposals. We believe that they are good and that colleagues from the Committee of Resolution have studied all of this in detail. We from the documents were able to see the quality of the candidates. However, I want to take this opportunity to remind myself that one of the main principles of this government of the Republic of Serbia is the fight against organised crime and corruption and that we have a permanent struggle. I would also like to congratulate the President of the State, Alexander Vukic, Prime Minister and Ministry, but also to us MPs who have adopted and voted in favour of these laws, that we have as a result of this struggle to break up an organized criminal group, perhaps by the cruelty of the most famous, which is the crime group Velja Belivuka. Their unholy actions and misdemeanors are known to citizens and citizens. But what we expect from the judges, the prosecutors, is that all that the police start to do until the end, not just end up in some kind of investigative or investigative action. What I particularly want to point out is that we expect this deep fight against crime and corruption and that it ends not only in Belgrade, but also on the edges of our country, in the interior, the periphery, etc. A colleague from the committee spoke of a referendum. If we look at where the referendum had the greatest support, where the citizen and citizen response was the biggest and where people voted massively for, we'll see that it was the Sanjak municipalities, among other things, the municipalities of Sjenica. Why? Several times, my colleagues from the Justice and Reconciliation Party, the MPs and I personally talked about the murder of rickets by Edin Hamidovic in August of last year at the promenade, in front of his wife, children and passersby. The man who committed this disgusting crime wasn't arrested, he didn't proceed from a dead end. I want to use your presence to say that we do not want to influence the work of the judiciary. Justice and prosecutors must be independent in their work, but must bear responsibility and submit, not just a report to the Assembly for their work, but primarily to the public, or citizens and citizens. So, acting prosecutor Radislav Filimonovic, who works at the Supreme Court in Novi Pazar, is obviously on some annual vacation, because the procedure is being tapped into place. I understand, and I have spoken here many times -- we will support the choice of judges and prosecutors, we need more judges and prosecutors to have a more effective judiciary, to have an effective fight against crime and corruption. But, you know, there are certain procedures that are more sensitive than others, in political, ethnic and any other sense. So, the citizens and the citizens were real, and today they're shaken, because they can't send a message that someone can kill someone in the middle of the street and that they're unpunished walking out of the country and now we're making it easy to forget the case. Also, I've pointed out several times, and today I want to point out the responsibility of Chief of Police Bojan Trncic's police station. I expect the authorities, of which I have been assured that they will be removed and will be prosecuted for clear evidence of failures in the service in which he worked. There's no organized crime and no corruption without inside support. So, no matter how successful a criminal you are, no matter how smart you are and how smart you are, someone inside you can't be so effective, smart, etc., so that all these possible investigations, traps and various police actions you can't possibly skip with your wisdom. It's also in the case of a criminal group of the Zemun clan and the Surcin clan and Veljko Belivuk and the criminals in the '90s, it turns out that we have rotten apples in the system that provide information, give badges, give radio stations where they can always be a step ahead of the law. Now, we can't let that happen, and that's why we're voting to elect new judges and prosecutors, and that's the problem when we talk about this local community in Sjenica. There can't be a man with a code name budo waving his badge and committing abuses, affecting law enforcement to try to cover up certain crimes or crimes like this murder. So please, I urge and request that the accent be placed primarily and especially and put on professional pressure that we have the epilogue of this case. I will also remind you that citizens and citizens of Novi Pazar and Sandzak are asking for special attention to the cases of Ernad Bakan, Scarep and Mavric. Because of the citizens and citizens of Sandzak and Novi Pazar, I want to say that more of these cases are hardly mentioned, except for the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, and for a time even protested and blocked the streets. Why? Because we don't do it for political points, we do it for the truth, fully respecting the pain of these people. We don't want any, God forbid, political points. It's just that we're asking you to establish all the circumstances and determine the truth. This one, Ernad Bakan, was killed on a foot crossing, on the street of Emperor Dushan in Zemun. So a number of political actors are trying to abuse the nationality of the victim and the perpetrator of the crime in their political struggle. We can't let that happen. In front of the court, they must all be the same. What I expect is that this procedure finally takes place, and that it is carried out in accordance with the requirements of the family, to determine the circumstances in the case of Scarep and Mavric, whether there have been any mounted cases, whether they have had any new skills that have given some new insight into the execution of the work, whether these people are guilty or not. What we cannot allow is that the accidents of these three families are being abused for daily political purposes. What we especially need to pay attention to, is that we had a case here, we were saying, that we had an advisor in one ministry who was accused of kidnapping a school director in Sjenica. With our action here in parliament, that man no longer works in the ministry, but we have other people from the Senate in high positions in the government and we must not allow these people to use their position to influence events or to give local politics or to give some logistics support. As far as the Republic Election Commission is concerned, I would like to say that it is very important that outside the parliamentary party they have their representatives. Why? We had the 2020 elections and, in my opinion, it is perfectly legitimate for political entities to participate in the elections or boycott the elections. It's your democratic right. Some political parties participated, so they entered parliament, some participated and did not receive citizens' support, and some simply decided to boycott. However, it is very important to make every argument to all political entities to boycott the elections. It is very important that for the first time we have non-parliamentary parties and the Republic Election Commission, so that after this election process, no one will be able to point a finger at the RIK and raise any doubts about the result of the elections. Our party participated in a dialogue between the authorities and the opposition and we believe that dialogue, the conversation has no alternative. As for the vote, I want to point out that when we entered, I address all citizens and citizens, but primarily my Bosniak people. When we entered this parliament we spoke very often, and especially the lyrical president of Mufti Zukorlic, about injustices, about injustice towards the Islamic community, about injustice towards the international university, about the return of vacuum property to the Islamic community, etc. I want to say that we do not live in an ideal society, but that we have found partners and that most of these injustices that are the product of the regime by 2012, have been corrected, that we have found partners that we can talk to, that we agree on, and perhaps some things that we disagree on, that we share civilised arguments. Citizens and citizens in Novi Pazar and Sandzak must never forget that in 2010, Boris Tadic sent a gendarme to deal with the Imams of the Islamic community. Instead of talking, instead of giving us a hand of reconciliation, instead of a dialogue to solve open issues, he was sending us a gendarme. Whenever any election comes, both these now and some next, we need to take a clear and clear look at who did and what the results of the policy and my parties and other parties are. What I would like to point out with pride is that Novi Pazar and Tutin will receive a pipeline this year, that within a year and a half Prepolje, Pryboj and Nova Varoš will receive a pipeline and that the construction of a highway will begin and part of the country where I come from, means that the Sanjak municipalities will connect Milos the Great highway and that we will thus create preconditions for the arrival of large investors. No big investors coming without gas pipelines, no highways, no good rail infrastructure. I think we have done a lot in this term together with our SNS partners and, of course, supported primarily by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic. In voting day, we will support your proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12325	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Shaip Kamberi.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12326	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. Today, among other things, we have a point on the agenda of the draft decision on the election of the deputy public prosecutor, which was filed by the State Major Prosecutors, on the basis of a previously declared competition for the selection of the deputy public prosecutor for the territory of the Vranj General Prosecutor's Office, the prosecution covered by the main court in Bujanovac, and therefore the territory of the Presevo municipality, the municipality with the majority Albanian population. The proposed candidate was selected from the ten candidates who applied for the contest, at least on the basis of the ranking list, which were evaluated in the previous procedure by an assessment of "five", i.e. "four". The ten candidates reported included two candidates from the Albanian national community, one was assessed by the assessment "five", while the second was assessed by the assessment "four". The choice of this candidate is due to the retirement of two deputy prosecutors from the Vranj General Prosecutor's Office, a unit in Bujanovac, who were members of the Albanian national community, who were retired last 2021. So, the prosecution was left without a single deputy prosecutor from the Albanian national community. I think all the criteria have been met for the state's senior prosecutors to propose an ATT deputy candidate for Albanian national membership, since they both met the required criteria. However, in its proposal, the state's chief prosecutor was defined as a Vranj candidate, who I believe does not know the Albanian language, who will likely be in charge of covering jobs that have already been carried out by the IJT deputies of the Albanian national community. With this proposal, I believe that the state's chief prosecutor has discriminated against two candidates of the Albanian community. Article 27. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia prohibits discrimination. He says that before the Constitution and the law, everyone is equal, that every kind of discrimination, directly or indirectly, is prohibited, on any basis, and especially based on race, gender, nationality and others. Article 77 The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which explicitly predicts that members of the national minorities are equal in the conduct of public affairs, says that employment in state authorities, public services, autonomous province bodies, local self-government units are also taken into account both the national composition of the population and the proper representation of members of national minorities. But besides this, I think it's the most drastically violated provision of article 60. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the State Council of Prosecutors, which stresses, will quote the whole provision, concerns specific rules of decision, Article 60. "Before making a decision on the election, or proposing candidates for a deputy public prosecutor in public prosecutors in the field of local self-government in which the language or letter of the national minority is officially used, more is providing information on the national composition of the local self-government population, as well as on the national composition of the public prosecutor's office in that prosecution. If the national composition of the public prosecutor’s office is not proportionate to the national composition of the population, and it is not, the public prosecutor’s office will, as a rule, select, or propose, a candidate of those nationalities whose choice, i.e. the proposal, would contribute to the proportionality of the national composition, and the highest-ranking candidate and national membership, if his assessment, or the number of points, are not below 90% of the assessment, or the number of points of the first-ranked candidate. The specific rules on decision-making referred to in Article 2 shall apply to those candidates who have declared their nationality in the competition documentation and who have agreed to apply the specific rules. “ As I was informed, both candidates wrote their ethnic, or national origins in the application. Therefore, since the above provisions of the Constitution, i.e. the key provision of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the State Council of Prosecutors, are not respected, I suggest that this item be withdrawn from the agenda and that the State Greater Prosecutors reconsider or that the National Assembly do not give consent to this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12327	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12328	Thank you, Chairman. Dear representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, we are most likely to round up the work of this House and to get the impression that in some past period for these year, the accent has been placed on strengthening institutions and at all on their independence in work, on functionality and ultimately on their legal tuning and regulation. The role of parliament in different countries is different and treated, i.e. the different parliaments in the surrounding countries, but each one has a common goal, which is that the real challenge for each of these parliaments is to change their position in terms of both the media and the public and the executive authorities, as well as international organisations, which was also the result of this Parliament's work. You will agree with me that the pillar of each state is made up of its institutions and of the degree of trust that citizens have in these institutions will depend and directly itself on the success of the functioning of a single state. In the months that we have behind us we have indeed had a very complex work, we have had a large number of public hearings on which we could hear numerous suggestions and objections, then a large number has been adopted and both significant laws in the area of finance and in the field of environmental protection, the Law on the Protector of Citizens, etc. and it can be said that each of these laws, as well as Parliament's proceedings in the previous period, was primarily aimed at strengthening citizens' confidence in institutions, above all at the institution of parliament. It is now clear that in the afternoon part of the session, we will join the Declaration of the Act on the Amendment of the Constitution and the Constitutional Law for the Implementation of the Act on the Amendment of the Constitution, and this is the last time that the Assembly decides on judges who are first elected to office. We had constitutional changes whose intention, or intensity, was to remove the choice of judges from the powers of the legislative authority or the influence of any other kind and I think that we did it, and time would show whether it was a good decision or not. I think so. You know that in the coming period, the amendments to the Constitution expect us to have a completely different approach and the principle of choice of judges and prosecutors, and in the whole of this process, I think the High Council of the judiciary must have, or also have a significant role to play, and now I will try to explain why. First of all, it must provide a strong support for both the integrity and the judges themselves, and I think that maybe we should give a slightly stronger response to the pressures that occur daily and to the judges at all. That's what I mean by media pressure. This would result in the fact that the High Council of the judiciary fully assumes the role of an independent and independent body fully providing and guaranteeing the independence and independence of judges and judges. On the other hand, the perception of the users of the justice system is not at the best, but it is not even unsatisfactory. According to a survey conducted by the civil society organisation, just over half of the respondents consider the integrity of judges to be high-level. Of that, even 85% of them think that judges are actually making an invitation in a satisfactory way. If we look at the situation regionally, it is most favourable in Vojvodina and least favourable in southern Serbia. Although it seems relatively easy to create positive and negative segments in terms of the judiciary itself, I would say that may not be such an easy task. On the one hand, you have a public who perceives the judiciary in one way, based on perhaps some of the personal experiences they have had, and on the other hand you have a professional community that knows what at a certain point is or is not possible to do. For this reason, wrong perceptions of the state of justice and potential problems that may even be predisposed to what they really are may arise in some segments. I think it's much harder to define the very concept of the quality of justice. I didn't notice that many people are trying to do it, and the reason for that is most likely lies in the fact that there is a very large spectrum of factors that can affect the very concept of the quality of justice. As the crown of all this, I think that attention should be paid to the expertise of the judges, prosecutors and staff themselves, which means that human resources are one of those factors that, although not seen, is really affecting the concept of the quality of justice. It may be necessary to pay attention to the fact that bringers and strategies, as well as managers, form an appropriate human resources strategy, which would include both employment and education, as well as the progress of the judges and other staff themselves, as they largely depend on the quality of the judiciary in the end. As you know, as you come from the judiciary, information is one of the most important things that all those involved in the judiciary are doing and it is very important for them to be coordinated, to exchange information, to perfect, among other things, using modern technologies, as it is done in some other countries, because it will also bring savings, but on the other hand, facilitate the exchange of information that is crucial for their work. Another segment I want to talk about today is enough access to justice. When I say - a sufficient degree of access to justice, I think it is very important to bring citizens closer to all alternative ways in which they can exercise their rights, so that they do not book, or that they do not overly burden judges and courts with certain cases that may be resolved by some alternative ways that would be more favourable to them, but probably both faster and more productive. All this again affects the public's trust, depending on your approach to justice and how much justice you are satisfied with, as well as the ways in which you come to them depends and the situation in the judiciary in general. Another of the things I noticed when we talk about the way we check the quality of justice in Serbia, although very often we hear that this system is also inefficient and that the courts are overloaded and that we have a large number of old cases, I have not noticed that there is some unique method or system that checks the effects of courts and judges. Perhaps it is the key to all the unresolved problems that exist in the judiciary and perhaps we should reward those courts, and I am sure there are more in Serbia than we can find out from the public, maybe we should reward those courts that have and how good practice in solving all these problems of the judiciary and maybe it will be an incentive for all other courts in Serbia. As for the second point that we are talking about today, about the members of the RIK, it is also important for us from the SDPS to be members of RIK to be people who are professional and professional. This body must function on the principle of balance and that all political parties will have their own representatives, i.e. be equally represented and have the opportunity to delegate their representatives to this body. It is very important that the candidates proposed by the parties are competent in doing their job, which means they must respect the laws as well as the procedure, because that is the only way we can talk about successful elections. The Republic Election Commission also plays an important and important role and it organises elections at all levels and republican, and local, and rural, but also elections for the advice of national minorities and in so far its role is more important, and thus this accent on the expertise of people sitting in it has more importance. Serbia has been working for three decades to improve electoral conditions to strengthen citizens' confidence in the electoral system in general. I think we've done a lot of it. I would like to remind you that representatives of the government and the opposition just over two and a half years ago have started talks on improving electoral conditions and it is then agreed that there are certain mechanisms that we need to implement as soon as possible, i.e. some solutions are short-term, but to implement them as soon as possible, in the first upcoming elections. In the end, the laws and procedures have been amended, so I think that the way we have now arranged this electoral system will really enable all political actors to reach their voters and participate in the elections and show their political strength. When we talk about RIK and the election process itself, our legislation does not know, unlike other countries, it does not know any stable, or professional electoral administration. So, that administration that would in one place cover all the procedures that are being taken in one electoral process. So it would also include voter records, and organisation and implementation of the election process itself and financial control, but also monitoring the role of the media and so on. In our case, this process has been achieved by the participation of various state authorities and our parliamentary group has spoken in one of the previous sessions about the idea of the Social Democratic Party when we talk about how this problem might be better solved, which is through the formation of a state electoral commission. When I say, the state electoral commission, first of all, I think of a professionally independent and permanent body that would consist of prominent experts in the area of the electoral system, i.e. electoral law. They would be elected for a period longer than the duration of the mandate of the MPs themselves, as this would enable their independence and would certainly strengthen mechanisms for the control of all participants in this process. It is indisputable that the Republic Election Commission has indeed worked in the past to improve its working conditions, as well as the way it has become more transparent compared to previous years. Scandicated records from each polling post can also be found on the site, which is one way to remove any doubt about the final results. I think by agreement we've managed to overcome certain problems in the functioning of the electoral system. These problems are overcome by the adoption of appropriate regulations, but also by the procedure. I expect they'll give good results. That is why the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support the decisions we are talking about today in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12329	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the Single Serbia parliamentary group, MP of Life Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12330	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the distinguished representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the State Council of Prosecutors, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today very likely for the last time on any subject, and certainly for the last time on the subject of the election of the holder of judicial functions, i.e. judges, prosecutors and deputy prosecutors, we are talking about this topic in this assembly session, of course. After this, we will have only the afternoon of this special session, and probably after that, the Assembly People will be disbanded and new parliamentary elections announced on February 15th. Since 3 August 2020, when this assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was established, and here until 9 February, the JS parliamentary group, which numbers eight MPs in this meeting, had only been presented and discussed in this room 351, was very active, not only in the plenarys, but also in the assembly committees and working bodies. We have tried, indeed, to make some of our contribution as JS, as a representative group of JS's work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, indeed, can say that it has done all the jobs set before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the previous year and a half, that there are no laws and other acts that we have not brought. What I can say is that there were some very important jobs among these jobs. That's where I'd say, let's say, that this assembly meeting brought out a whole procedure for constitutional changes in the domain of the judiciary, which is a very important job. This afternoon at the Special Session, we'll put an end to it, as well as its participation in the procedure. Of course, in another congregation, the necessary laws will be passed in order for these constitutional changes to be fully revived. What is even more important of these important congregation tasks, I think this is the first assembly assembly meeting to be brought by the Code of Conduct of People's MPs, which is also very important that this assembly meeting called out, negotiations between the parties and within the party, or interparty negotiations on electoral conditions, that we have adopted a completely new electoral legislation. So there were a lot of important jobs. Personally, to me, let's say that we passed two very important identity laws, such as the Law on the Conservation of the Cultural Heritage of the Holy monastery Hilandar or, for example, the Law on the Use of Cyrillic and the Protection of Cyrillic Letters and many others. However, to return to what this congregation assembly has done and what it is about to end today are these constitutional changes. This is the first legislative authority that devastates itself, so to speak. This shows our attitude towards both government and state and, of course, towards institutions and people and citizens. We have shown that citizens are first and foremost Serbia and that our goal is, above all, satisfied citizens and strong and unique Serbia. That's some goal we're looking for. Here, today, I say, for the last time, we are discussing the choice of a legal holder, because according to the still valid Constitution and under Article 99. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia discusses and elects the holders of judicial functions. Since we've talked about this so many times, I wouldn't add anything new to it from what we've already said. For example, Walter said that the best rule in which a man must obey is the laws alone. In this sense, we have completely removed the judiciary, made it independent from the executive and legislative authorities and Serbia will, when this judicial reform process is over, be the state with perhaps the most independent judiciary in Europe and in the world, of course, when and by following the laws brought along with these constitutional changes. We have created a completely independent judicial system, but every system, including justice, does not only make up rules, norms and laws, but every system is made up of people. In this regard, it is very important that the profession that will be chosen by the holders of judicial functions chooses the best among themselves as bearers of these functions. Only when the election of philanthropy appears is justice, Lao Ce said. What does that mean, transferred to the choice of judges, some future ones? This means that the holders of judicial functions, i.e. judges and prosecutors, must first of all be good, honorable, and moral people, and then good acquaintances of the profession, and only at the end of the day those who judge and sue. I've said here more than once that no system will work if the people who make that system don't work. That is why I draw attention here to those to whom we have transferred to the jurisdiction of further judicial reform to choose people carefully, above all, and then to the holders of judicial functions. Henry Bordeaux said there's always some danger in the judiciary, if it's not the law itself, then it's the judges and there's no greater injustice than when justice is late, or the judiciary has to be effective. It's very important, just so that this injustice doesn't happen if justice is late. We have the case, for example, that in the private lawsuit of Dragan Markovic Palma, only after a year and a half, the scheduled hearing against the blondeed, scribbled, "witnesses", in fact, criminal Branislav Radosavljevic, who has stolen cars and has been arrested and convicted several times. Only after a year and a half has been scheduled for the first hearing. Of course, at that first hearing, that criminal, not that he didn't show up, but he even gave some excuse to have a toothache, so he can't come to the hearing. Today we have a situation that everyone can say anything about anyone, with justice coming too late. We must make, in addition to effective laws, and other than effective legal solutions that will re-emerge responsibility for the spoken word somewhere in our legislation, we must also make an effective judicial system in order not to get to what Momcilo Nastasijevic said, and that is – there is no greater injustice, but when justice is late. A good judge, the one who has sworn an oath and who will judge by law and justice, the one who has sworn the oath and who respects the generally accepted values in society, such a judge has been and now is and will be independent in every judicial system. Those individuals, who, fortunately, are few, whose personal or perhaps political interests and goals are more important than professions, laws, rights and justice and morals, such individuals were not, today, and they will hardly be independent in any other system, a better system that we are trying to make in the judiciary. We of Unity Serbia believe that the principle of judicial independence is a central postulate of a democratic order based on the rule of law, but we believe that judicial independence is not a goal for itself, or is not worthy of itself and cannot be seen as a privilege of a branch of state authority or holders of a judicial function, but an institutional means to protect human rights and freedoms. In order to fully achieve this objective, an independent and impartial judiciary based on the foundations of respect and protection of human rights and freedoms, it is necessary that judges themselves contribute to this by means of their own expertise, training, commitment to work, and, as Rikofferi said, the laws are worth as much as the people who are invited to apply them. I mentioned that this afternoon we will confirm the results of the referendum on constitutional changes and we must say that the referendum is a kind of holiday of democracy. And the last referendum we organised was a kind of holiday of democracy, and the results of the referendum showed the clear will of citizens to go to judicial reform. Unique Serbia has always led a real policy, a policy of achieving concrete benefits for Serbian citizens and has never deceived citizens. However, we could see immediately after the referendum, on the day of the referendum and days after the referendum attempts to deceive the citizens' actions by the opposition. About how they tried to end the people's will best tells a recording on which one opposition representative explains that before the official results of the referendum should be announced that they, they say, spin the results of the referendum and then accuse the authorities of stealing in the referendum. Where will you get more concrete evidence for deception and how much is their policy in fact a policy of manipulation for the citizens of Serbia and that it is a policy of deception and obsession? This can be seen as a kind of demonstration exercise, as a kind of training for the upcoming parliamentary and presidential and in certain parts of the April 3rd local elections this year. Those who deceive men, and whose mouth is full of freedom and justice, these days we can see how far they are to freedom and justice. Employees at the company Dragan Gilas and he personally view freedom as the will of a man, i.e. as the will of Dragan Gilas, and they bypass justice in a broad circle, as we could see in the case of domestic violence that he has done in time. They're all the opposite of what they officially say or do. It's all a hoax or an obsession. Unique Serbia will go to next parliamentary elections in the coalition with its old coalition partner, the Socialist Party of Serbia. Our coalition has been going on for 14 years now, since 2008, and our coalition has a clear and recognizable programme. We have always worked for the benefit of the citizens and the state of Serbia. Our coalition has concrete and realistic results and therefore it is not questionable for our coalition and will never be a questionable support for the people, because we also have a real policy, a policy to preserve the basic state and national interests, a policy of economic development of the country, a policy of social justice, a policy of concern for young people and those older and the policy of improving the status of agricultural producers, but also real green policy, not environmental demagogy. Let me get this straight. There's no power without men. There is no prosperity of the state without justice and good politics. We are in favour of Serbia in which the will of the people and we are in favour of Serbia prosperity and justice, and in that sense, the Single Serbia parliamentary group will vote for these proposals, unless one of the fellow Members of the People's People's Parliament makes a comment on these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12331	Thank you. The word has the president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, MP Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12332	I thank you, distinguished vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Jevdzic. Dear representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, respected representatives of the State Council of Prosecutors, allow me to begin by saying that this is probably the last address, is that on Monday we will have another session, but I suppose this is the last address in this call of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that the Socialist Party of Serbia also takes a look at the previous almost year and a half of Parliament's work which has been challenged by a part of the opposition for a long time, not realizing that parliament is actually the voice of the people and that democracy is being held in elections and that only elections can change Serbia's political course. It can't be protested, and it can't be street. This parliament has also shown in the previous period of time that it is a symbol of democracy and efficiency and transparency, but also of the public in the work, which is of great importance and importance. Many important laws were passed in the previous period in this room, starting with the law concerning the very pandemic, which, unfortunately, is still going on, then laws concerning the standard of living of citizens and laws concerning the continuation of the construction of infrastructure projects, because there is no economic without infrastructure development. Then, we managed to improve parliamentaryism in Serbia. We managed to implement everything contained in the European Commission Report, and it was about the concrete work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So the scale was raised to a fractional higher level. A lot of important processes. The two are mentioned and I fully agree with my colleagues, the change of the Constitution as one of the most important state processes in Serbia and the other process is inter-party dialogue. It is from these two processes that the topic of today’s session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia arises. Let me start with what I last mentioned, which is an inter-party dialogue. I think that the initiative launched by the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that dialogue is being conducted not only with European parliamentarians this time, but also with non-parliamentary parties who do not want to talk to European parliamentarians, has yielded concrete results. The result is an agreement signed with, among other things, non-parliamentary parties that did not want to talk to European parliamentarians. Simply, it's a process from which you can't rule out any game. Our goal in the whole process, otherwise, is that we as a parliamentary club have defined ourselves to participate in the work on both tracks, to talk to both European parliamentarians and parties who do not want to talk to European parliamentarians, because we wanted to listen to all suggestions and suggestions, to see what is real and what we can implement, and to really improve electoral conditions in Serbia. Unfortunately, we've tried to come up with some sort of solution, with respect for diversity, find a compromise, and I think it worked out. Two things are of paramount importance to us when we talk about electoral conditions and when we talk about next elections that will be held on April 3rd. I mean the presidential, parliamentary and city elections. It's, first of all, a matter of responsibility and a question of seriousness. This ruling coalition has shown responsibility for actions, and not in words today, we are responsible for our last meeting with the European Parliamentarians and the first question that has been asked whether you will be able to implement all of this with the extraparliamentary opposition parties. We said - you can look at us as a reliable, stable and safe partner and of course we'll implement everything. And with this today and the session that we're going to have on Monday, we're going to round up that process. So, I don't know if one ruling coalition in Serbia has made this many concessions to representatives of extraparliamentary parties since the introduction of the multi-party system. We're talking about the RIK composition here right now. The Republic Election Commission has so far had 17 members. The RIK composition was chosen by a number of MPs who had the electoral lists after the parliamentary elections were held here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It has never happened that extraparliamentary parties have their representatives in RIK. At the request of the extraparliamentary parties, we have made another compromise, a few steps back, and I will explain why I say so, but another compromise and agreement that the extraparliamentary parties also have their six permanent members and six deputies, which has never happened in the history of parliamentaryism in Serbia, I repeat. The big question is whether those to whom we have made concessions would have done to us if we were a non-parliamentary opposition today, which, of course, would never have happened, but I know and I am sure that they would not, because if they wanted to change anything, they would have changed between 2008 and 2012, or at least remembered the electoral conditions in the period from 2008 to 2019, and not in 2019, when they realized that their call for extraordinary parliamentary elections probably meant their political past, which eventually proved to be. So we're aware of the fact that when you want to compromise, you simply can't all be satisfied. I want to speak openly again today, the ruling coalition has reason to be dissatisfied with what we have accepted when it comes to electoral conditions. Why? Well, in every polling post, if we talk about the election process itself, if we talk about RIK, if we talk about permanent composition, extended composition, in every polling post, the ruling coalition will have far fewer representatives than the opposition political parties, because it will only have a list led by SNS and Aleksandar Vukic, a list led by Ivica Dacic, with our pre-election coalition partners, when it comes to parliamentary elections, we have one common candidate, and that is that. All the others are lists of opposition and opposition lists will have their own representatives in polling stations, besides having six members in RIK, one member in constant composition, one plus one in constant composition and having two, what belongs to them in an extended composition in each polling post. Where do you see seriousness? Ours certainly is. We've proven ourselves to be someone who keeps his word and I've said a little bit, what we've also told the Europarliamentaries, they can always see in us a reliable, safe and stable partner. But what we've always insisted on is having a dialogue. The dialogue is healing. Only by dialogue can we come to compromise and legal solutions, but dialogue must be conducted in the institutions of the system, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not on the street, not in the park as a tribal alliance, but here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's what we insisted on. I think the seriousness of those who went out with certain demands all the time and were actually just looking for a reason not to go to the polls, not their goal now was not to go to the polls, they didn't go to the elections once, that goal went to waste, so the boycott went to waste. The script that was supposed to happen after the boycott also failed, and it wasn't an idea anymore. The idea was something else, to try through European parliamentarians in any way to put pressure on the ruling coalition's parties and to reach power and privilege without elections. Now, that's the only thing he can't do. Everything else about election conditions we were willing to talk about, but that's the only thing we can't do. I repeat, democracy in Serbia only comes true in the elections. We had a million and one request, I don't know how many representatives they were looking for in the polls. In the end, we came to everything, we accepted everything they asked for, so today they would show their seriousness by announcing a public competition to let people who would guard their ballot boxes and who would be in polling stations. So, are these serious political parties and organized political parties? So I'm saying, for us, it's a matter of choice, question and responsibility and a question of seriousness. As for the second topic, which is related to the choice of judges and prosecutors, Mr. Starcevic said for a little while, I think we are the only parliament that has disbursed itself. As the highest body of the legislative authority, we have disenfranchised ourselves, but with a clear goal - the depoliticalisation of the judiciary, so that we have a better judiciary in Serbia, to strengthen and strengthen the justice system in Serbia. That was the only goal. On the other hand, let's start over. First, it came from the Law on the People's Initiative and the Law on Referendum, but it was our constitutional obligation. The constitutional obligation had to be implemented by 2008, as a new constitution was adopted in 2006. And these stories that we've reduced, that we've abolished mandatory censorship, so no, the Constitution defines that there is no mandatory censorship. We have only observed this law with the Constitution that was adopted in 2006. And what we've done has absolutely nothing to do with Rio Tint, with the preamble, although it's been trying to artificially politically abuse itself all along. Ecology deals with those who work, say, at the Institute of Law and have been lawyers all their lives and suddenly become environmentalists. But, well, maybe that's possible if you have a higher purpose. The goals here are quite clear. We want, above all, the efficiency and independence of judges, the responsibility and independence of public prosecutors. When it comes to what the citizens have decided on 16 January, and we will today confirm, I am convinced, by a two-thirds majority, that we do not choose judges for the first time in a three-year period, but that they have a permanent function. We at the SPS think it's very important. Also, that judges will not elect parliament, but one expert body that will be composed of judges, which will be composed of prominent lawyers, from university professors. It was also decided that the presidents of the courts should be elected by the competent state authority, the High Council of the judiciary. So we set, as I would say, the foundations and a stable basis for a single rule of law and the rule of law in the right sense of that word, because, you know, for citizens, it's very important whether a procedure will last for a few decades or manage to be realised in a relatively short period of time. That's what citizens are interested in when we talk about justice and that's what they expect from justice. We've had some objections from one part of the opposition, but you're demystifying all these remarks with one fact, so why didn't they do this? There have been attempts from 2009 to 2011, so in 2011, it stopped because in 2012, there were elections, and they had to change the preamble. As you can see, we're not talking about preamble, we're talking about justice, and then they put it aside. The Working Group continued to work in 2017 and 2018. No consent has been reached with professional associations. It continued to work in 2019. A large number of public debates were held, full consent was reached with the Venice Commission, agreement was reached with the professional associations, we implemented what was a suggestion and the opposition of members of the Venice Commission. I had the pleasure of participating in several meetings, online meetings with representatives of the Venice Commission, but I know how difficult it was to convince the representatives of the Venice Commission in the several-hour talks held by the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Ivica Dacic and the minister of justice, precisely with representatives of the Venice Commission. When it comes to VSS, it's hard to find, I'd say, a universal approach and it's hard to find a universal model that's being applied everywhere in the world. The urgency is that the election from parliament is passed on to independent bodies. These are the VSS, the VST, with parliament playing its part, as out of 11 members, parliament elects four members and so on from the ranks of prominent lawyers. So these four members are actually representatives of parliament, and since parliament is the voice of the people, they are also representatives of the citizens and have a very important and important role - a control, supervisory role, and what is the importance of saying and the fact that these four VSS members would come to the election is not a simple majority enough. Therefore, there is no revote, a qualified majority is needed, which is a guarantee of quality and good debate in order to reach a certain consensus and to make certain arrangements. So far, they've blamed politics for everything. All the dilemmas we have heard have been brought forward in talks with the European institutions, but the basic postulate is clear and clear, there is no choice in parliament. The proposed variant is at least to the detriment of citizens because there is a mechanism, as I said, through the introduction of a qualified majority to vote and precisely that qualified majority for voting should choose four prominent lawyers who will be members of the VSS. On the other hand, our goal was to build a much better judiciary, because a number of research years ago says that Serbian citizens were not satisfied with the work of the judicial authorities. On the other hand, the referendum, true, was abused for political purposes in the context of the fact that the referendum was meant to change preambles, so they tied it to Rio Tinto in order to actually conceal the essence, and the essence was independence, depolitisation and independence of this branch of government. So, I repeat, all the acts of the European institutions we have received since 2006 listed objections, when it comes to the rule of law, with an emphasis on ensuring an independent judiciary. Wait, if we're talking about the rule of law, then it's perfectly logical to start from constitutional changes. We'll have a chance to gain independence and efficiency, and that's what we said both during and right before the referendum's plea. We have a chance to gain independence and efficiency...
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12333	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12334	I'm done. We have a chance to gain independence and efficiency, and if we don't take that chance, we stay in some status quo. I'm done, colleague. As far as prosecutors are concerned, there will be no surrogate of a top prosecutor, but public prosecutors will be on their own. As far as the judges are concerned, the waist has begun to edit that part, and it's going, I'd say, in the right direction. Whoever claims this issue would not affect the process of European integration in Serbia is seriously wrong. And so it would affect, because we could not repeat the referendum for four years. In that period we certainly couldn't open a single cluster, and thanks to this we opened a cluster of four, and in the first half of this year we're going to open a cluster of three, and then we're going to close a serious continent. Otherwise, legislative activity and further reform process would be disabled. In the end, as far as the names you suggested were concerned, I didn't speak of names on purpose. We will hear, of course, the other colleagues who speak today. You said what the rest of the postulates were before you suggested and what it was that you saw to get to the candidates. These are expertise, consistency and training. If there are no objections and objections, we will support the proposals we are talking about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12335	I thank the president of the SPS parliamentary group. The time above the scheduled 20 minutes will be subtracted from the time of the parliamentary group. For our children, the MP Dejan Kesar.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12336	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representatives of the VSS and the State Council of Prosecutors, respected citizens of Serbia, is today ahead of us with a proposal for a number of decisions, both for the election and for the termination of the holders of judicial functions and for the motion for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members of the RIK, as well as a proposal for authentic interpretation. The proposed decisions before us today, the MPs, show clear intention and intensity that we are considering the proposed decisions as quickly as possible and within a short time as possible in order to ensure the conditions for the more effective work of the competent state authorities, both the prosecutions and courts and the RIK as well. When we talk about the motion for a decision on the termination of the office of public prosecutors, I would say that, in accordance with the legal acts governing their jurisdiction, the State's Chief Prosecutors referred the decision to the National Assembly and determined that the conditions for the termination of the office of a number of senior and primary public prosecutors in the territory of the Republic of Serbia had been met and addressed to the National Assembly, i.e. to the Committee on Justice. Since several sessions ago, we had the opportunity to discuss certain prosecutors who were appointed to these functions, I believe that such a proposal for a decision addressed to the Committee on Justice and which today lies before us with the MPs here in plenary, the decision of the formal character and the parliamentary group "Alexander Vukic – To our children" will certainly vote in favour of this motion for a decision in the day of voting. We also have before us a proposal for a decision on the selection of deputy prosecutors in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and also, I would say that the State's chief prosecutors carried out a clearly defined procedure under the Prosecutor's Law, that they carried out the procedure in which they found that the proposed candidates, professional and qualified and worthy of performing such a function both after carrying out the examinations and after all other talks and all other necessary elements involving this process, such a proposal for a decision was submitted to the Justice Committee. The Justice Committee considered such a decision and directed it to the National Assembly. When we talk about the candidates themselves and what is very important after these formal things that you have said, as representatives of the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, at the very beginning. We have in a period of one year, as the most legislative body in many cases considered the proposals for decisions coming to us both from the High Council of the judiciary and from the State Council of Prosecutors. We have considered these decisions in a quick and efficient, transparent way, because we wanted the citizens of Serbia to know who we're going to choose for judges and prosecutorial functions, why these people deserved to get a recommendation, i.e. to be in the form of a proposal by the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of the Prosecutors, but in certain cases we also challenged certain candidates. Some of us resented why my colleagues and I challenged certain candidates for these functions, because we felt that we did not have to accept all candidates for certain, subjective, or objective reasons by automated means. We really want, as the National Assembly, as the most legislative body, to discuss here the holders, the future holders of judicial functions that have the best results, which are the most professional, most worthy, most capable of performing such a serious and responsible function, above all, so that the judicial authorities carry out their tasks, or to carry out the tasks entrusted to them by law and in order for Serbian citizens to reach justice quickly and to reach certain judicial decisions in order to protect their law-guaranteed rights. When we talk about the choice of judicial officials, we are also talking about the proposals for decisions sent to us by the High Council of the judiciary and we are talking about future holders of judicial functions, both in the territory of the city of Belgrade and the Court of Justice in Vrbas. Also in this procedure, as in earlier cases, it has been found that candidates and professionals are worthy and trained, that they are ranked by the High Council of the judiciary and are headed to the National Assembly for decision-making. I think we also showed for a period of one year a serious degree of democracy and a serious degree of transparency when we talk about the proposed candidates, because we spoke clearly of each individual candidate in the People's Assembly. We read their biographies. If we find certain candidates in some way unworthy, unworthy, or unworthy, and unprofessional, we have challenged such candidates, no one can blame us because it is in the jurisdiction of both the National Assembly and the MPs. What is a very important line is, these are three lines that will fully characterise this collection of the National Assembly, which is what, the first thing is that a large number of young people are, above all, in the parliamentary group "Alexander Vukic – For our children" gave the chance to represent the policy of prosperity, better standards, better lives, greater independence of the Republic of Serbia and all other things characterized by Alexander Vukic and SNS politics. Another thing my colleague also said, Djordje Milicevic, was that this plenary of the National Assembly in one of the previous sessions had adopted a set of electoral laws that were a positive result of an inter-party dialogue held in the last year with the presence of President Aleksandr Vukic and certain opposition parties, as well as with the intervention of MEPs, was conducted by representatives of opposition parties who did not want to come here to the National Assembly and to talk with their legitimately elected representatives. What is certainly related to today’s topic when we talk about judges and prosecutors, is that this congregational assembly will remain fully remembered because we as a congregational majority, or government as an authorized promoter and the current assembly assembly assembly, have fully ruled out when we talk about the choice of judges and prosecutors in the National Assembly. This is also shown by the results of a referendum held on 16 January, where 60% of the citizens who came to the referendum supported the proposed constitutional changes and, in the future, after one year or after a year of the amendment of the Constitution and the adoption of other laws, a set of laws, which we are obliged to adopt in the next assembly, the future election of judges and prosecutors will no longer be in the National Assembly, but will be in the VSS and the DVT. The chairman of the Justice Committee will not be a member of VSS and DVT in the future, the justice minister will remain only a DVT member and these are significant changes compared to the period before 2012 when representatives of opposition parties sat in this assembly hall, which completely destroyed the justice of the Republic of Serbia from 2009 to 2012. Indeed, whenever I am able, I will talk about this reform, about this shameful reform of the judiciary, which our judicial system has reversed and which we are trying to correct, certain stains, and ten years later by the people who were sitting in the then Ministry of Justice, the VSS and the DVT managed to do for a period less than six months. You know, we'd be in a much better position today if it wasn't for people like that who wanted to have reformed the Serbian judiciary in their biography, and then completely destroyed it and destroyed it. Not only when we talk about the issue of the judicial network, not only when we talk about the reputation and integrity of the Republic of Serbia in international institutions that monitor the work of the judiciary, but about human fates. A thousand and a hundred or over a thousand and a hundred holders of judicial functions and judges and prosecutors are due to the decision of a small number of people, who were directly instructed by the people who sat at the top of the DS were left on the street. I will always repeat this because these constitutional changes and the implemented referendum have been honoring us for the past year as representatives, political representatives from opposition parties and certain people from courts and prosecutors, who have illegally used their current functions to honor us with what we want to do in the domain of justice. We didn't want to do anything that was illegal and illegal, and what they did from 2006 to 2009. For a year, we have faced a clear hysteria of opposition party representatives that it is not good because we are working on constitutional changes. It is not good because the current congregation majority will be characterized as the congregation’s majority, who removed the choice of judges and prosecutors from the National Assembly. You had DS representatives, you had these representatives at Andric's wedding, and I'm talking about Boris Tadic, I'm talking about Nata Mesarevic, I'm talking about other members of the High Council of the Judiciary who acted like older men, who after applying to the general election, who at that time, not that it was illegal, but was also unconstitutional, took these applications and considered among themselves and then saw which judges and which prosecutors were close to the DS at the time. Don't lie to yourself that it wasn't like that, and don't lie about that judicial reform being good. No, she was no good at all. She was good to those who had closeness with DS representatives at the time, who could call someone and say, well, you know, I may not have been a member of the DS, but I made some decisions because I was asked by people from the municipal boards. When you say that these municipal committees didn't propose it's a lie because you have a paper on which the president of the municipality and the chairman of the DS municipal board say, yes, he's good, let's propose him for a judge or for a prosecutor because he's going to represent our interests and it's not a lie. Then in DS headquarters, two or three nights before the election, they cross the names of the judges. Imagine that dose of malacity that one of the unwritten rules was that if one spouse was a lawyer, and another judge couldn't pass, and then people, of course because of the family existence and existence of their children, went away and divorced their marriages. Why? That it would be written in the biography of Snezana Malovic that she is a reformer of the judiciary or Nate Mesarevic. Well, when we talk about these two personalities, it's enough to say that Nata Mesarevic at the trial of late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic said - I just got the verdict, so I'm going to read it either by Snezana Malovic who said that after the judicial reform, the work disputes would be over, that is to say, ended in a period of two years, that is, I apologize, the litigation of six, so to this day these disputes are being dragged. When we talk about the judicial network today, we are talking about candidates for the first, second and third basic court. To whom, for example, an earlier judicial network, in the territory of the city of Belgrade, which included five municipal courts, was meant to form one centralised court, so that all those courts that were clearly defined are transferred to one court. Well, it was appropriate for the DS people to have one president of the court coming out of their echelon. We need to talk about these things. We have to talk about these things so they never happen to us again. Today, you have a large number of investments in the area of justice to help judges and prosecutors do their own law of trust. You have a reconstructed Court of Justice, you have a new building in Katanic, soon we will have a general building, or a General Court building in Kragujevac. What was done by 2012? You have 1,100 judges who have fought for existence. You know what's worse? Which is why none of those judges who have passed have invited their colleagues to ask them if they are well, if they have anything to support their families. Because they weren't supposed to, because someone in court would probably say, well, you see this chosen one calling these unselected ones, and that doesn't like people sitting in DS. What happened in 2012, the red line was underlined, is what we as the SNS said – no, we don't want to interfere in court proceedings, we don't want to interfere in the work of the judicial authorities, we don't want to influence judges and prosecutors by putting the titles of certain tabloids in the time of DS, so that the judge should act in a particular case. In this process of changing the Constitution, you also had a judge of the Court of Appeal who went public every day and spoke, a man probably from 8:00 to 4:00 a.m. to 4:00 a.m., and from 4:00 p.m., then closed the door to the courtroom and went to the studio, or went to the shows of these opposition media and constantly attacked. He doesn't like the views of the Association of Judges, the Association of Prosecutors, and he doesn't like the attitudes when he comes to public hearings and when representatives of his association CEPRIS get arguments from MPs in the current assembly meeting, that these constitutional changes are good because they literally don't like anything and because they would leave everything in a state that was in 2012 so that they could command the judiciary. You have three years, as I have already said, of fighting judges and prosecutors to reach their Constitution of guaranteed rights, which is the right to work. But at that point, they're holding in their rakes and the Constitutional Court. Only when the Constitutional Court in 2012, when the Constitutional Court released the political ballast judges were returned to work, but it is not a problem that they were returned to work, but because this state's reform cost millions of euros, because some judges and prosecutors died because some have been seriously ill. You know what the worst thing is? The worst thing about a judge and prosecutor's profession is that someone characterises it as unworthy. You know who characterized them? They were characterized by people who today are divided into several political formations, which are actually a united DS. Those people who sat in the DS are sitting in those opposition parties today. These are the same people who want to move Stefan Nemanja to Borč today, i.e. people who don't choose words today, don't choose actions to attack Serbia's majority and cultural and decent in order to gain cheap political points. They'll do anything, believe me, they'll do anything, just to get a decree or paper from outside Serbia and to say, yes, you beat SNS and Alexander Vukic without a choice, without the will of Serbian citizens. That's what the inter-party dialogue has just shown you today when we talk about RIK. They called on European parliamentarians to probably, or expected, bring them paper in which they would say -- that, Your Majesty, Dragan Gilas could come to power without a choice, without the will of the citizens. That's not gonna work. And the citizens gave them a red card in 2012 because of all the affairs, all the corrupting actions, but one part and for judicial reform and for judges and prosecutors. That is why I hope that both in the future and in the next meeting of the National Assembly we will discuss these and similar decisions because in this way we provide a clear way for the work of judicial authorities in an independent and efficient way, but also for these decisions we will contribute to making our Serbia stronger and more modern in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12337	I thank the authorised representative of the Parliamentary Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. Since we no longer have registered presidents or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, we are moving on to the list of speakers. The first is the National MP, Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12338	I thank the Honorable Chairman. The honourable representatives of the proposings, the honourable MPs, are one of three key pillars of a whole society or state in legislative, executive power. The judiciary must have that role to play in keeping society in the sense in which it is certain that justice and the work under the laws and respect of the Constitution will be a key cornerstone of the development of that society. Of course, and that's why we here as MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party and all the other MPs have talked many times about the judiciary, the election of judges, prosecutors, etc. I don't agree every time with suggestions, some and supportive. We have also always sought and demanded that the constitution be respected in mixed environments, that those who propose to the prosecutorial and judicial positions be proposed in accordance with what means the reciprocity of the population of that place. Today, we also have one of these proposals, it seems to me to be a court in Novi Pazar, a public prosecutor. It is important to keep in mind that in these mixed environments, in addition to the reference, in addition to judicial honesty, the prosecution's congratulations, we must also respect the nationality of the citizens of that city in order for everyone to have what is called the Constitution and the laws guaranteed, i.e. to be equally represented in all parts of the state authorities, and in the judiciary, of course, as one of the pillars, as I said, of the whole of this system. Many times we talked about the fact that the judiciary must be independent, that parts of the criminal system, parts of the police and the prosecution should be freed. We haven't always had that in Sandzak space. This is something that we have talked about and we will constantly talk about in the next period with the aim of the judiciary, to clear the prosecution of those who are not well-intentioned and who do not work in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12339	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Daniela Veljovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12340	Thank you. Dear representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, colleagues and fellow MPs. This is the last time MPs choose judges in parliament. On the basis of the Law on Referendum and in accordance with Article 203. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was held a referendum in which citizens said positively about the change of the Constitution in the justice work. But what the referendum also showed is that citizens were not very aware of how significant these changes are and whether they are necessary. It is precisely the responsibility of those actors of political life who used the referendum for some kind of political struggle against the authorities, with a high dose of passion and politics. I particularly consider the irresponsible ones who called for a boycott of the referendum, because the referendum is precisely the most important instrument of direct democracy. The people should be the most important factor in social policy life that will affect its design by its decisions. Of course, the referendum is not a magic wand that will only solve all the accumulated problems with one touch, but it is certainly a significant step in the way of approaching the EU and European values. Citizens are not required to be familiar with the way the justice system works, but it is important to feel safe, protected and equal to the law. The judge must not be a political opponent, nor should their choice be political commitment. The rule of law depends on how our community works. It's important in our relationship, because we have obligations to each other. It is the role of the judge to protect everyone from the will of an individual whenever he violates his rights. All citizens of the Republic of Serbia must feel safe and protected regardless of religious, sexual, political commitment. This sends a message that there are no privileges and that the law is equal for all. These are priorities that should not have been questioned before the referendum, and certainly neither after nor the question of how the judges choose should be brought into contact with the essence of the rule of law of democratic principles. Like I said at the beginning. This is the last time the National Assembly has appointed judges and prosecutors, so I would like to remind you once again of the first member of the applicable Law on Judges. It states that the judge is independent in making decisions in the proceedings, that the judge judges and judges under the Constitution and the law and that he is obliged to maintain trust in his independence and impartiality on every occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12341	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12342	Thank you to the Honorable Chairman, representatives of the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. We of Unity Serbia support the selection of the best candidates you have proposed here today. This is also how my colleagues told me last time we chose them like this. We're not sorry, there's no set, we're all fighting for your independence, it's democratic fluids. The party to which I belong, the Unique Serbia is a state-of-the-art party, and we will certainly continue to fight in this direction as we have fought so far. In the campaign led by opposition party individuals, we had a situation in which, on several occasions, they caused direct damage to the party I belong to and the president of my party. We have had the opportunity to see how these lies are brought forward and thus the reputation of the president and the reputation of the party I belong to is violated. It's not just Dragan Markovic Palm, he's here, you have to understand that as a human being, now I'm talking to you as a man, I'm not talking to you as representatives of too serious institutions sitting across from us today. The damage has been done and the reputation of both the man and his family and all of us who support Dragan Markovic Palm has been violated. The public function by nature of things is that all of us who deal with such functions are always somehow on the wallpaper, that we are easily available to the public and that is quite normal. Not with us, but everywhere in the world, but when there seems to be an injustice to lies, as in this case done to Dragan Markovic Palmi, I am now asking you to make an effort with the positions where you find yourself to do something and to prevent what is happening to us, but also not to allow in the future to happen to anyone similar situations. You know, my colleague Starcevic today said that JS in this term, as the republican elections are being discussed, means that in this mandate we have now worked in, we have had over 380 exhibitions. Believe me, at the moment of this affair, we've had to spend a good time explaining what's really true, that the law is on our side, and that these are lies. Surely an even greater contribution and the impact of the laws would have been, when it comes to JS, if it hadn't been for such affairs. We know they're doing it to get cheap political points, it's not the first, not the last time, but you have to realize that their work is a large number of young people, and not just young people, all those people who want to get involved in politics, turn to the other side. Today I want to send a message that we JS always say that young people are the law. And today I call on all young people to get involved in politics, of course I will always say get involved in JS, although it is freedom for everyone to choose in the political skies of Serbia to whom the political party can trust, or to seek the opportunity to show its good ideas and impose some of its policies. So, what's going on, you may not have some mechanism, but if we take the fact that for a year and a half, we've been waiting for the first hearing, and that no one is showing up at that hearing today to do such media damage with their lies, I personally think there's something you can do. If judges or prosecutors don't have the opportunity to do so, so to speak, the instruments, to prevent such things, we can turn to doctors, psychologists, psychiatrists, because it's not normal for someone to lie to them for a year and a half, and for that, it's absolutely no consequence. I think it's time that even the con men, I'm using maybe some ugly terms for the home that I'm in, but believe me, they're not far from the truth, so neither the con men, nor the axes, nor the thieves, nor the people who don't tell the truth, have to start to answer for their actions. We become insecure as a state and as an institution unless we have the opportunity to get in the way of it. There are elections, there are elections on April 3rd, all have the right to run in these elections. Election conditions have been changed, everyone has been met to make different reliefs, to reduce censorship or whatever should be done and everyone has the opportunity to run for office on April 3rd. The citizens will vote the way they think it's best. They'll vote the way they've voted so far. We from the JS continue our 14-year co-operation with our coalition partners in the SPS, and I'm sure no matter what kind of injustice we do to the media, we'll do great results. What matters to you, I say once again, the JS parliamentary group will support candidates who have proposed both VSS and DVT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12343	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12344	Thank you, Vice President Kovac. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, the distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this is one of the last sessions in this assembly of the National Assembly, not counting on today's special session at which we will confirm constitutional changes relating to the judiciary, so that judges and deputy prosecutors who are elected today have the honour of being the last to be elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and who will swear an oath before the President of the National Assembly. Constitutional changes, we have talked about this often and for a long time, allow for greater independence of the judicial authority, and that was the aim and idea, as one of the three branches of the government, in terms of the choice of the legal holders, but it should be borne in mind that this fact implies an even greater responsibility of the judiciary, i.e. judges and prosecutors, for the preservation of the legal order, for the protection of the legality and security of citizens' rights in proceedings before judicial authorities. That means a fair trial, that means fighting crime, that means responsibility for the situation in the entire judiciary. Once again from here, except to say that the SPS parliamentary group will support the proposals with which you have come today, I ask you to first and foremost as responsible people, and no doubt that is, take seriously the role that the National Assembly has given you. We are the only council, I think, in history, and I can almost say that in the future there would be no one who would be willing to give up his powers in favour of Serbia's citizens first, which for all of you who are representatives of these branches of government means that you must be twice as responsible, more professional and least vain when you choose your colleagues in positions that depend on the quality of life of our citizens and citizens. It is the task of all of us together that we bear power under the Constitution and I have no dilemma that it will be so. As much as these constitutional changes were criticised, to a good extent one percent of people didn't understand them, and I sincerely hope and firmly believe that practice will show how right we were when we were so selflessly, fully aware of our responsibilities, left their rights to people who were trained to do so. I will take the opportunity today to look back on the work of this Parliament, fully consciously and motivated by all that we have as MPs in the past, we have been able to hear about ourselves, to see, to read, not because I need to defend or amnesty any of us, but because of what I want to say, first of all, to start with the conclusion that in this term we have had first of all one dynamic work, which means adoption, and I will tell you the figure, over 200 laws and other acts. Our work in this mandate has indeed taken place not only on committee and parliament sessions, but also on other activities. First of all, I am thinking about the activities of permanent delegations of the National Assembly in international institutions, the activities of political groups of friendships that are very important, the work of the Women's Parliamentary Network, the activities of GOPAK and all other forms of co-operation. This assembly of parliament has had several important activities and will remain remembered by extremely important acts. First these were constitutional changes, and I was already talking about it. But what should also be pointed out in particular is the huge contribution of the National Assembly President, Mr Ivica Dacic, to Parliament's reputation and role in two significant segments. One is parliamentary diplomacy, which President Dacic gave first of all a special value in his experience, using his diplomatic skills, his experiences, the international contacts he had built and achieved as foreign minister. There was almost no foreign diplomat, from ambassadors to high-ranking states, which the president of the National Assembly had not received and talked to, showing that parliamentary diplomacy and so on. soft diplomacy today is a major diplomatic asset, from a huge impact on improving Serbia's international reputation, especially in the fight to preserve the country's sovereignty and territorial integrity, as the most sensitive issue we have dealt with. Clearly, it is a struggle to protect, above all, our national and national interests in KIM, that is the continuity of our state policy, as well as the SPS policy that was part of the ruling majority. President Dacic has done it in the best possible way in this state office. Another significant segment of parliamentary activities is inter-party dialogue and we today have a agenda point - the choice of the new Republic Election Commission, the concession that has been made, the electoral laws that have been passed, which have come first from this dialogue. We have shown that dialogue has no alternative, that despite political differences we must discuss, and that agreement has made no small concessions as the ruling majority. It is another of the successes of this call for parliament, which we really did not primarily take care of our interests. Because if you look at the changes in the election laws, then anyone who intends to comment correctly will say that the most damaged are just the representatives of parties and parties that make up the ruling majority. We gave our hand, made it possible for the conditions to be sought. One serious percentage of the demand was completely unrealistic but we reduced it to a real scale, made concessions. The only thing we haven't been able to do and what's not up to us is that citizens give confidence to all those who will get a chance to definitely run and run for the parliament of the Republic of Serbia under favourable conditions. To get citizens' trust, I talked about it a few days ago, you have to explain to them what it is you're going to do for all of them. People's MPs, not only in the name but also in practice, are representatives of the people, and they should be. Any list that will be formed in a way that will run for people who understand the problems of their environments from which they come, the problems of their environment, not sharing people with whom ideologically belongs, I am convinced, will gain the highest confidence in Serbia. It is not forbidden to brutally criticize all those who do not feel the same way as you do, it is not forbidden to use the dirtyest methods in the political struggle, but it is immoral. We have the right to remind ourselves of immorality, because this call is also a call, the only one and the first, to bring the Code of Conduct to the Members of Parliament. I'm not sure anyone else would do that. If we're rested that we had to - no, we didn't. There was not a small number of people sitting in this office who had the privilege of being an MP in the past. We remember various performances that have permanently tried to destroy the integrity of an institution like this. It was a serious job to restore citizens' trust in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and in the MPs individually, because unfortunately we were often reduced to interpreting us through individuals. None of us are the same here, none of us are alike here. We all have our ideas and our flaws and our virtues and we're responsible for what we've done, or maybe even more for what we're not. Because he who works, he has the right to make mistakes. The one who doesn't work, he doesn't even have the right to speak. So, respected citizens of Serbia, the parliament of the Republic of Serbia in this meeting has been declared unilateral and a parliament that thinks the same, that there is a one-way government. No, this is the parliament that expressed confidence in the government of the Republic of Serbia that came with, as I said at the beginning, more than 200 laws and acts that we discussed and talked about. We didn't just adopt those acts by nodding our heads. If someone deals with statistics, they will realize that anyone who seriously wanted to be a MP tried to contribute in the way possible, which is in committee discussions, in the plenary room, in the submission of amendments, in pre-phase discussions when it comes to laws. So we came across working groups to the Ministry of Social Dialogue with which we had countless round tables topics. Why? In order to succeed first of all, and I am absolutely proud of it, to pass one of the laws that has also long been pending, which is the Law on Gender Equality, it may seem to me to be the most important thing for this call. The other thing that's very important is that after 10 years a few days ago, the Social Entrepreneurship Act was passed. So this parliament addressed issues that are important for every citizen and citizen of Serbia. I want to believe, and I am sure in fact, that citizens of Serbia who lack neither wisdom nor intelligence will be able to choose April 3rd for when parliamentary, presidential and local elections are announced in certain environments. The worst thing will be if the motive for going to the elections is stubborn because bad solutions come out of it. So, I ask the citizens of Serbia that when they think about who will do the future challenge, they will be aware that these people in this room, thanks to these units, will be able to say, do, help or help. Each individual has a biography, and it's not hard to judge what it's going to look like in the end. How many of those will hide behind strong names? Probably a lot, but that's why there are parliamentary elections, and that's why there are 250 representatives on each list. I don't have any dilemma that the SPS and JS list, it's a tradition, one coalition that seems to me, the longest time in the political sky of Serbia, will get trust, because I am convinced that people from this coalition and believe and have reason to believe. I really wish all the participants luck. The most important thing to say in the end and what I must stress is that, despite the criticisms we have encountered, as one of you, it has been a pleasure to do the work of the MP in the past year and a half, how long this mandate has lasted. The Honorable gentlemen of the judiciary, once again, you get one important historical role today. I firmly believe you will answer her. I am telling the citizens of Serbia that I am convinced that the parliament of the Republic of Serbia did not make a mistake when it transferred its powers to you, because you really need to be independent, but that absolutely means that you must be extremely objective and work exclusively in the interests of the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12345	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Bakarec, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12346	The Honorable Chairman, Mrs Kovac, the Honorable Representatives of the High Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, I will mainly talk about the elections, i.e. the importance of forming the Republic Election Commission, which we are doing today. This is another proof that the amendments to the electoral legislation, which we as SNS have implemented since 2019, have made Serbia the most attractive and fairest state in Europe, as far as election legislation is concerned. Just to remind me that the regimes that ruled Serbia during the multi-party era, i.e. from 1990 to 2012, have never offered any such attractive electoral conditions to the opposition. So, let me remind you of that famous folk saying, of milk. So we offered the opposition milk. Serbia really has the best electoral conditions in Europe. We have since 2019, in conclusion with the previous session, but here and now, adopted 36, 37 legislative changes concerning improving electoral conditions, not counting on the many really sublegal acts that have been linked to it. All that was asked for by the opposition. So we fulfilled all their, all opposition wishes, both from the left and from the right and from the center, which, of course, were in accordance with the law. And that speaks of our, among other things, confidence, because that's what we think is good for the state. During that time, while we are acting so constructively, that jilasian part of the opposition, its part of the opposition, otherwise they call themselves a united opposition, which they are not, otherwise, represented, they could be called the "United Group", or "United Group" and "Multigroup", since that part of the opposition is actually represented by these two companies, Gilasova and Šolakova, because at the same time the functionators of these parties are employed by these two companies, and at the same time, no one is counting, in conflict of interest. So they're Gilas' party officials, and at the same time they're employed by Gilas as an employer, which is amazing so far, the world hasn't heard that yet. Now in the last ten or seven days, that part of the opposition has managed to generate so much disunity, hopelessness, destruction and auto goals that they are already at the beginning of the election campaign, and the election has not yet been called, but soon, they have managed to bury about two metres underground. Simply, Gilas and the SAA, Jeremic and his People's Party, the DS and finally this Assembly of Independent Serbia, who came out of the Gilas coalition, managed to break up their coalition within a week, to launch uniting candidates Ponos and Jankovic, to insult one half of Belgrade by insulting the population of Marinkova Bara, which is Voždovac, the residents of Borce, which is Palilula, to insult Vrachar's residents with lies about fictitiously reported citizens at Vrakar and to insult all residents of Republika Srpska and their relatives in Serbia with identical lies about fictified citizens of Serbia. They announced more monument destruction to Stefan Nemanja, announced Belgrade's collapse on the water, announced they would not build a subway. And Dragan Gilas has personally been haunting us for five or six days now with his lies, trying, where he personally insults the citizens of Republika Srpska, and the other day he called the citizens of Republika Srpska an instant citizen. So, Dragan Gilas is making divisions in the Serbian people. I'll remind you that a few months ago, when he visited Washington, he also shared Serbs, when in Washington on a TV show, I suppose, he called himself 99% of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija criminals. And as for the short part, Gilas' candidates, the problem is that Zdravko Ponos is NATO and Croatia's candidate, it sounds strange to the president of Serbia. Be careful, Ponos did not defend Knin or the Republic of the Serbian Krajina at the time when all the officers who were born there were doing so. Zdravko Ponos was the chief of staff who was promoted by the extraordinary, hyperspeed DS, led by Tadic, however, who was disgracefully fired from the service and retired very quickly because even for the taste of Sutanovec, the minister then, and Tadic he was openly, and too openly, working for the interests of NATO and the United States, which was witnessed by the deputys of Wikilix. Zdravko Ponos has huge support in Croatia and Croatian media. They describe how he and how much he loves Croatia and Zagreb, etc. When we know all of this, it is reasonable to ask ourselves – and why is Zdravko Ponoš not running for president of Croatia, that would be much better? However, these days we learned that Zdravko, a disgrace to him, is the proud owner of two apartments in Vračar, in the suburbs and four garages, all worth approximately half a million euros. Then it's time to ask about 11 questions to the Health Care Officer, shame on him, Pride. The first question, how is it true, where and when he earned two luxury apartments and four garages on Wrath? Why and how did he avoid joining the RSK army as other Krajina officers from 1991 to 1995? Why did he make the decision to remove 63rd paratroopers and 72nd Special Brigades? Was that a NATO warrant? The fourth question, exactly how many tanks, planes, helicopters and other techniques did he spend, destroyed and cut for old iron all along his military leadership? Did Zdravko Ponos go to Knin in late July 1995 and secretly transfer his family to Serbia? Was he then informed of whom to prepare the Storm? The sixth question, where was he and what exactly was Zdravko, ashamed of him, was Pride worked during NATO aggression in 1999? Did he become a member of the Atlantic NATO Council in 2001, although it was explicitly forbidden for officers at the time? The eighth question, did the Croatian service know from 2001 to 2005, which of our officers was being investigated for alleged war crimes? Is that what he told his superiors? No, of course not. When it was true, where and how Zdravko Ponoš, shamed him, submitted a request for a Croatian passport and did he inform his superiors about it? The 10th question – How much money, Zdravka, was he ashamed of him, Pogoša, transferred to his private accounts by Jeremic's NGO CIRST, and by what basis? Eleventh and final question – Where is Zdenko Franjo Ponoša, his wife, and where does his wife get hundreds of thousands of euros from to be a co-investor in the construction of residential buildings in the return pastures? The other Gilas candidate, and I'll talk about it briefly, has even bigger problems. Having become Gilas' puppet, Vladeta Jankovic performed a political salto mortal. Jankovic is otherwise, we have been convinced in these 10 days, the man of gaff, champion of hypocrisy and example of inconsistencies. He, by the way, has been repeating for the fifth time that he is not qualified to run the city. Well, then why is he running? Then why are they running him? To remind you of the following examples of inconsistencies. Vladeta Jankovic, hides that in 2013, as DSS, part of the presidency that decided to replace Gilas, which was conducted in the city assembly, participated in the shift of Dragan Gilas, and then criticised Dragan Djilas and named Gilas's rule in Belgrade as a robbery in 2013. On the show "Caprist" a few months later in February 2014, Jankovic called Đilasa a furniture. Today is Jankovic, part of Gilas's furniture in Belgrade. Otherwise, until 10 days ago, Vladeta Jankovic represented the view that Serbia did not commit genocide in BiH, which is the right position. But by accepting the candidacy today, Jankovic has that view of Marinik, both blaming Serbia and the Serb people for committing genocide, which has never happened. What an inconsistencies. Otherwise, the government programme of Jankovic in Belgrade, be careful, it should be a candidate for mayor, and it is, is the destruction of the monument to Stefan Nemanja, or the transfer to Marinkov's bar. So it's racism towards the Roma, which mostly also resides in this leprechaun, nothing disputed Marinko's bar, which is today practically located in the city centre. The government's Jankovic programme is to bring Belgrade down on water. Government Jankovic's program is not to build a subway. Be careful, Belgrade needs rejuvenation, and Serbia at all, not a man who is 82 years old. It's an honor for old people, and they have their own, of course, place in this society, but the mayor has to jump, jump, deal with social, school, kindergartens, every day that he's somewhere, it's actually harder than being a candidate for Serbia's president. Belgrade needs a mayor to build Belgrade, and monuments, not to tear them down. Otherwise, apart from insulting the Roma, I cited one opportunity, Jankovic reviled the citizens of Serbia and 750 thousand members of the SNS yesterday, calling us all, quoting Vladeta Jankovic, he says – this is a gang of bots and pastures released from the chain, near the quote. Be careful how any normal man can direct such insults to all members of the SNS and citizens of Serbia, and critics of its stance that monuments should not be destroyed. As they call it, that fine uncle and retired professor, under the pretenses, can call unthinkers a gang and pastures, whether it's a dictionary of a university professor, or perhaps it's not just a nice uncle and a gentleman, but a Gilasovec blinded by hatred. To mention, in that interview the day before yesterday, Vladeta Jankovic finally said a sentence very thoughtlessly that had been peeled and striped by Gilasovci and their non-existent programme. He said, "It is more important for me that all vote against the Wolf, that is what is important, to be against. Be careful, all marketing election experts, eventually all normal people, will tell you that the most important thing in the election is a constructive relationship, that the most important vote is for, that you have for someone or for some programme, that voting against is not constructive, but destructive. So neither Jankovic nor Ponoš nor Gilas have a programme, they have nothing to offer citizens, they have no choice but to offer citizens what to vote for, so they're against it. On the other hand, the SNS published its programme a week ago, on a fantastic site, talks, is an interactive map of Serbia showing what was achieved in the previous period in Serbia, in the past ten years, and that is also on the phenomenal brochure, we have done together, in which the results of the rise, construction and progress of Serbia are presented. President Vukic visited China the other day to announce an even better co-operation with China, and most importantly, he announced the signing of an extraordinary free trade agreement with China that would represent a huge opportunity for Serbia's economy and will be signed this year. Yesterday, President Vukic announced that Serbia is currently negotiating with as many as 92 investors who will definitely come to work in Serbia, that they are also operating the total value of these investments is 7.3 billion euros, which is 35,000 new jobs. I'm going to say, because again, as I said, better to be constructive, I have some criticism to express, but here's what's been done in the previous period, I'm going to say. Unemployment was 25.5% in 2012, now reduced to a historical minimum of 9% in 2020, inflation is the lowest in the last 50 years, pensions have increased by 30% since 2012, average earnings are doubled compared to 2012 and is now almost 610 euros. Serbia is the first in the number of foreign direct investments and we have attracted 21 billion euros since 2012. The Balkan Stream, a gas pipeline, built the Milos highway large, is under way to build ten more highways. The two famous giant bridges were built, one by Vlad's Han, and the other by the Jell-O Bridge. A railway is being built from Belgrade to Budapest, and during which day will be the opening of a share of Belgrade – Novi now where trains will go at 200km, that is what old Serbia could dream, and now it is coming true. In five years, Serbia has invested one billion euros in health care. Now I'm not going to mention it, be careful, there are three hoofs of hospitals built, dozens of hospitals still built or reconstructed. And, in a few days, I mean in March, it will be open to a renovated, reconstructed, new Serbian Clinical Centre. Serbia, for example, has financially supported over the past two years, anchors and citizens and the economy. Let's remember, 100 euros to help all full-time citizens. One hundred euros to help all young people. In a few months, the young will get another 100 euros to help. Soon they will or have already received pensioners, 27. 1,000 aids, the unemployed got help, the free artists got financial assistance and all the citizens got another 60 euros, the pensioners got 50 euros once again, all the citizens, watch out all the citizens, seven million Serbian citizens got 3,000 euros in support. Let us remember, in these few years back, that for the first time, there were necessary population measures and help for mothers to be born, and this is also very well known for the birth of the first and second and third and fourth children. This concludes, today we will announce the afternoon Act of Amendment to the Constitution, and in connection with a successful referendum concerning the exclusive judiciary. And this referendum was an opportunity for the entire, careful, repeat, entire opposition to show its destruction, but also of the NGOs. Look out, everybody. They were all united in the opposition, the development of the judiciary, or the opposition to the referendum. In a referendum at that time, they saw an opportunity to try to break President Vukic's spine before the elections. Of course, they failed, but they all got together, it was interesting, the whole opposition, left and right, and patriotic, and other Serbian, and centrifugal, and all the NGOs that had participated in the referendum for a year. They all retreated, but failed, the people said theirs. By the way, most opponents of the referendum said they advocated pro-European orientation. The European Union supported the referendum, and these opponents of the referendum then made it clear in the referendum that they are anti-European. And then who should the citizens only trust in this election? Well, all they have to do is trust President Vukic and the SNS. Finally, SNS and President Vucic will win this election because of fantastic results in the last ten years and the best programme so far has been what President Vukic and SNS have done in the past ten years, raising Serbia, building Serbia, injecting Serbia and treating Serbia. An even better programme will be what President Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party will do over the next four years raising Serbia, building Serbia, injecting Serbia, treating Serbia, treating the past in the present for the future. The surrender, we all know that, is not an option, the only option is victory. Long live Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12347	The word has a folk letter from Dr. Amela Lukač Zoranic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12348	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives of the High Council of the judiciary, we have today several very important points on the agenda, and it is primarily a very important proposal that you have presented to us, about the members, about the judges who are rightly elected to this post. I am very pleased that the large number of candidates you have proposed are young people, are people who have the right skills, compete with all the obligations that are prescribed, and thus speak foreign languages. So these facts make me very happy. I also look forward to the fact that finally in our democratic state, we will, indeed, seek to join European integrations fully have an independent judiciary, an independent prosecutor's office, an independent judiciary, which will thus also confirm this act on the approval of the Constitution or amendments to the decisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This is a significant step, and therefore candidates should work to ensure that any possible conflict of interest in the context of the fight against any link between crime and the judiciary should be fully prevented. I hope that these young people who come to such significant functions will behave in accordance with the legal regulations in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and protect the principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We will in this way have a balance between the legislative and executive authorities and, above all, it will be very important for us to have all the legislation that we have at the level of the Republic, that those in practice are fully implemented, which in some cases does not come about, so I hope that all the rights guaranteed by the Constitution will be able to draw all together, meaning, all citizens equally, that they have equal rights and thus, the choice of these judges will confirm that these young people who applied in September today already after this day can exercise their functions. We also have the election of RIK members, which is also another responsible function for each individual in RIK. They also require the task of holding April elections. I hope that the elections will pass in the best order, that everyone will have the opportunity to show what they did, how they did in the previous period and how they will work in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12349	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12350	Thank you. Chairman. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, before us and in this call and, let me say, in the present way of electing judges and prosecutors, the last time that we MPs have done this, since the citizens clearly supported in the referendum the proposal to amend the Constitution in the domain of the judiciary and supported the reform of the judiciary that we are carrying out to make the judiciary an even more independent prosecutor's office, which is not only important because of our further path to the EU, but as we have said, it is also important to further progress Serbia itself and to improve the conditions for development. You can see that the effects also yield results in addition to that and that we have a truly successful leader, President Vukic, who uses every opportunity to promote Serbia in the best light. He did so by attending the opening of the winter Olympic Games in China, where he also supported our athletes to take advantage of the opportunity to talk to world leaders and new joint projects, improve bilateral co-operation between these countries and Serbia and the way to bring new investors. We had the opportunity to see, when it comes to China, that in the coming period, we will be working on this agreement on opening the Chinese market and on our products and producers, which will certainly contribute to further growth and development of our economy. Of course, such news that would be celebrated in every country, because we all know how big the Chinese market is and how important it is that our producers also use their products, with their innovation they participate in what they will give, I say, a boost to the development of the economy. The tycoon opposition immediately attacked and immediately their quasi economists, people who were state secretaries and ministerial assistants, and also ministers gave their interpretations that this was harmful to Serbia, and in fact only by confirming their ignorance that they otherwise represented while they were in those positions, because during that period 2008, the global economic crisis was a developmental opportunity for them. And during that period, they showed how many statesmen they were and how willing they were to help the citizens and how much they looked at themselves. In the end, the result we saw in 2012, the citizens clearly said in the elections that such people are never again the place and should not be the head of the state. Then you have a campaign they're running. Their campaign is based on saying everything the opposite of what the government is doing, criticizing what the government is doing, not making any arguments. Here's the latest news we've heard about, which my colleague Bakarec was talking about, which is, continuing to help citizens, i.e., young people from 16 to 30 years of age, which will be 100 euros in May or June of the month, immediately criticized and immediately associate that it is one of the new ways, the instruments President Vukic uses to buy the elections. Of course, they entered this election race immediately with the view that the elections were stolen in advance, which is never in history, and politics, and democracy in this world has not happened, it is in fact only their strategy to justify themselves for their failure, which they know to follow on April 3rd, because they know that they will then have another big slap by the citizens, because they will punish them because they are trying once again to deceive the citizens, as they, as well as some new faces, new hopes, people who will advance Serbia, in fact, except for the parties they have now formed from that yellow democratic party, the tycoon parties, and have formed fewer tycoon parties, have done nothing else, have not offered anything new to the Serbian citizens. A colleague, Bakarec, mentioned that Gilasov's candidate for mayor of Belgrade, was the only thing he cared about was moving monuments and moving monuments to Stefan Nemanja, who was the founder of the Serbian state, i.e., to say the countries under the German dynasty, which is one great statesman and military leader, in his period he managed to make elections for a higher degree of independence compared to the Byzantine empire of our country then, Raška, and provided and created conditions for Serbia to later become one of the more powerful states in our region, and we remember the excellently Dusan Empire, and what Serbia was then. So, he's engaged in moving monuments, and by the way, he says, that's what his colleagues can confirm, and the citizens saw that he's admitted to being incapable of running the city of Belgrade, that he doesn't know he's dealing with municipal issues, that he doesn't know he's dealing with infrastructure issues, but you know what he'll know he's dealing with? To make way for Dragan Gilas' claws in the city's register and continue robbing Belgrade's citizens. It's his only goal he wants to achieve. Then, you have all the efforts and resources and the "Multicom" empire and production benefits, in order to provide new lies and spins to these candidates, both for the President of the Republic, the prime minister's place where he put Marinik Kokoda Tepic, and for the mayor, the incompetent Jankovic, he is doing his best to invent some new affairs, and what they were only dealing with is filling his pocket. Also, you have an interesting story. So, if they're already dealing with moving monuments, as it says -- that monument is a problem, well, we go back to that period before 2012, what they were doing. To them, Kosovo and Metohija were a problem, so they worked hard to remove the problem, i.e. to separate the territory from Serbia, so we remember what Borislav was doing, i.e. Borko Stefanovic, was working to negotiate the formation of the border between Serbs and Serbs, which is what Gilas did with a statement on the issue of Republika Srpska citizens, who have the right to seek the passport of the Republic of Serbia, who have the right to be citizens of the Republic of Serbia and he is trying, likely to separate them from his queen, and what the Dayton Agreement guaranteed, that he should step up. That's how the Vojvodina bothered them, so they gave wind to the autonomists' backs. That's how other parts of Serbia bother them, because Serbia wants to make a simple circle of the two they will rule, which will privatise and execute the acquisition, or attach it to the "Multi" empire. That's how they solve problems. I say, in the period of crisis 2008/2009, we saw how much they cared about the people - nothing. One big nothing. The only thing they cared about was their own pocket, the only thing they cared about was that they were satisfied, satiated, and we know that the factory was shut down, the cataclysm of them. Half a million and more people were out of work, so add their families who had no way of eating, so in 2009, the shameful reform of the judiciary, which is what counterpart Kesar was talking about, where more than 1,100 judges and prosecutors were left out of work overnight just because they were unsuitable, just because they didn't want to listen to them, the great bosses and that they're judging, and then they're doing the same thing today, of course via Twitter, because they're the only heroes on Twitter, and the non-humans are like this in practice when they show up, weak and petty people, where they're both prosecutors and judges and executioners and that way of treating them, as they did in 2009, I say again, through Twitter are trying to implement. When we talk about justice, I am glad, and my colleague, Kesar, mentioned, but I will certainly mention when it comes to Kruševac, the city from which I come, that this budget also provides for the realisation of an important project for the town of Kruševac, which is the construction of a new Palace of Justice, a facility where all the courts in Kruševec, and the Basic and District, will be housed, and the Criminal Court, too, where they will now work together under one roof for the benefit of citizens, and in that part of the town of Kruševac, a settlement called the Old Airport, which at the time of the yellow tycoon, was nothing more than a plain meadow for horse pasture, because in their time they didn't even think about the development of the town of Kruševac, nor of Serbia. They've been thinking about how to build themselves into jobs they're doing, even a little bit of what they've done for the citizens, like the reconstruction of only plateaus in front of the Union's House, they haven't been able to finish, but the whole story and the financial part had to end at the time the SNS came to power, when we had to fill a huge hole in the budget they've made and, fortunately, not only have we filled it out, but since 2018, Kruševac has been a city that no longer owes a dinar to loans, nor plans, nor has he had the need to be credited for the realisation of his infrastructure projects. Last year, during the marking 650 years of Kruševec's existence, the entire square was reconstructed and is now truly a beautiful space for the realization of events and for a place where citizens can spend their free time. Like I said, they don't have a plan, they don't have a program. They're talking about some plan for the day after. This plan for the day after we see clearly, it is a desire to continue the crying woman for which they are bitter, angry, because the citizens prevented them from doing it in 2012, so they stopped them in 2014, 2016, 2017, 2020 and stopped them in 2022, April 3, because they will not allow them to implement their own hellish plan. And then, you see, when they're aware of it themselves, and they won't admit they're aware of it, they go with the strategy, i.e. plan B, and plan B is this April 4th that they mention, the desire to cause unrest, the desire to take people to the streets, and for that they do not hesitate to use the maximum funds and all the instruments their "Multi" empire provides, so that even in the statements their candidates say clearly we can see that they look back already on April 4th, not thinking about April 3rd at all. What's interesting is that the research that they're trying to place, so the boss of tycoon Gilas places a study in which he's himself, probably by polling people in the "Multicom" environment, has found that he has 18.5% of citizens' support, and then the other day comes out an interesting study of people from the Faculty of Political Sciences who say that, based on field research they've been doing, a coalition called "United Serbia," and we know how they came to that solution, by plagiarizing and stealing other people's names and campaigns, and by stealing the name of the Citizens' Association, what should certainly be a shame, but of course, they don't know, because their face is a sole, they've come to statistics that it's about 13.5%, and then if you deepen and read the text, it turns out that some 23.5 percent of them have been added to have been said about the polls, and they've decided that they've decided that when they'd come. When we add to this research by Gjorge Vlah, who is known, of course, for his research, who is known for the way he came into this parliament, by misleading the citizens, he evaluated Dragan Gilas himself, or his party at 7.6%, and so for Dragan Gilas and in this strategy of trying to spin and lie, the citizens went all wrong. As it started, the question is whether or not it will come after some research and up to 3%, or whether it could raise 3% of citizens' support on its own. And then you have another study today, i.e. an extension of this research when it comes to candidates, where it is clear that all other candidates who may have been considered by the citizens who, therefore, are against this authority, have much better support than his NATO General Zdravko Ponos, so I am honestly wondering if this machine brain seems to have overshadowed the moment he was doing his research, so that he may not have been able to read that statistic, although we know that accuracy of 120% in reading the results, so he decided to be Zdravko Ponos, who, as my distinguished colleague Milica Nikolic has determined, actually in relation to him and his properties that he owns, Gilas's brother Gojko turns out homeless. That's your candidate, that's the kind of people this so-called. "United Serbia," rather, I would say a united tycoon Serbia offers, and it only offers you those persons, i.e. the coverts that Dragan Gilas will use to continue his robbery, and Vuk Jeremic to implement his plan of rematchism, i.e. simply, peoplely -- revenge against all those who have prevented them from carrying out their idea of robbing and destroying Serbia. I am pleased that in the referendum we saw the citizens that they realized how important it is that Serbia goes forward, that further reforms are being carried out and that they did not allow that idea, which they advocated, the judiciary to return to the period of 2009, that is to say to allow it, and that we have succeeded in the period from 2012 to today, and the negative results and effects of the reform to correct as much as we could, and later at the session, when the citizens' will at the referendum is confirmed, and when it comes to implementing these acts, later changes in electoral laws, we will go even faster and better towards improving our environment and economic environment, although their machine brains cannot understand why independent justice and the independent prosecution is important for the development of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12351	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12352	I thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, respected representatives of the High Council of Justice, fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia, I will, as so far, support these proposals, which are now on the agenda, related to the election of prosecutors, deputy prosecutors, judges who are first elected, related to the Republic Election Commission, proposals. Here, this will be the final session here where judges and prosecutors are elected and resolved, which from the next call of the Assembly, after the election, will be different. We have thus shown that as people here in the Assembly, as MPs, as citizens of Serbia, we want to give maximum support for the judicial and prosecutorial function to be... that everything is done in the name of the law, in the name of the people, to be tried in the name of the people and that we too have confidence in what it is, and that every one who has been elected as judge, to be the deputy prosecutor, or prosecutor, will do so only by law, as it should be. It is a sign that this assembly supports, which is important, that the people of Serbia gave and confirmed the same in the referendum. Once again, I will vote in favour of these proposals because I believe they are quality suggestions. Regarding the members of the RIK, there is one amendment, and I will support it. It's a representative who was proposed in front of the Justice and Reconciliation Party-USS. Once again, distinguished colleagues, Serbian citizens, we will enter from this place from 16 February to 17 February, where we expect the support of the people, where we expect that the candidate for president will certainly be our current President Aleksandar Vukic, that the list he will lead, i.e. SNS and us as coalition partners, will all work together and continue to work for the benefit of every man, whether he lives in Svrlig, Beli Palanca, Gajino Han, will live in Tutin, Prepolje, whether he lives in Subotica and Belgrade. We are all for each man to live from his work, to live, to attract, to behave in the same way, and it will be a real indicator, because Serbian citizens certainly know and see what it means to have a Serbian president like Aleksandar Vukic, who showed that the country should be run, together with the government. I can tell you from the president of the assembly, Ivica Dacic, that as president of the assembly, he was a great president of the assembly. Once again, great support for all those who support and think for our country Serbia, so whether Serbia is in Srljig, Piroth, White Palanca or Tutin, does not matter, we are all citizens of Serbia. Long live Serbia! Happy birthday.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12353	Thank you. The time foreseen for your parliamentary group has been spent. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12354	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, the honourable representatives of the High Council of the judiciary, the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are now very important points of the agenda. My colleagues, especially the representative of the parliamentary group, spoke about it in detail. Let me say, however, that today, as my esteemed colleagues have said, for the last time this assembly is choosing judges and discussing them for the first time, to say that it is very important who the judge is, therefore, that it has not only expertise and training but also dignity. I especially appeal to this third category of dignity. I'm not saying that most judges aren't worthy, although they're extremely decent, but we have a part of what we have amongst us professors unworthy, and often they raise their heads and sort of disturb the order in these actions. So it's an extremely important skill, training, and dignity. All these candidates you've proposed, I've examined their biographies, they own, for me, and the expertise, the training and dignity of at least when it comes to biography, they'll probably prove it more in practice since they first choose a part of the judge's office. Right away, did we have that in the past until 2012? We didn't. No, no. Dear representatives of the High Council of the judiciary, we did not stick to professionalism in the majority of the election, nor training, nor dignity. Here, I'm going to give you a direct example, when it comes to expertise, it wasn't about expertise, it wasn't about training, it was about dignity, it was about no criteria, it was about DS membership. We've considered here in the past summation of individual cases, so that was the basic criterion. Next, what do you say? When the SNS took power and proposed its minister of justice, believe it or not, the minister of justice was found by an assistant minister of justice, and we only have medium-sized expertise. What was important? Bag, bow, tie, cars and terrain. So, not in the past, the party to the former regime, Boris Tadic, Dragan Dilas and Vuk Jeremic, did not adhere to these criteria, nor to the criteria prescribed by the laws, but only to this one criterion, which is the belonging of the DS. That is why, gentlemen of the High Council of the judiciary, at that time the judiciary was the worst in Europe. That's not my grade. This is the evaluation of European officials. The judiciary during Gilas' reign was in a desperate state, moving, in one sentence to say, from unremembered scandals in the conduct and exorcision of judges to unbalanced crimes. To be more specific, five judges during Dragan Dilas, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic committed suicide. At least 20 judges got sick and died because of re-election. There are 837 judges and 200 deputy prosecutors left out of office. That's 1037 of you. You can see the situation that the SNS has come into and what our judiciary has been, and there have been estimates of European officials the worst in Europe. Some judges, as I said, died of injustice, and some committed suicide. That's what I've been talking about since the last session. Gilas's judiciary in the election of judges has made one of the greatest scandals in the history of the world's judiciary. Do you know what this is about? By choosing, believe it or not, but it's true, the dead Judge Ljubisha Djuric of Požega is a judge. And miraculously, Gilas's VSS president, then, Mrs. Nata Mesarovic, who has been "lifting her head" these days, said she spoke to all the judges in good time and spent 200 hours talking. Who knows which time I ask her? How could she speak to the dead Judge Ljubisha Djuric? She didn't explain it to us until today. How Mr. Gilas and his associates, who are scattered in many parties, can explain the choice of Judge Sonja Brkić, who you know well as the representatives of the VSS, who violated the Law on Judges, because at the same time she served as judge of the Supreme Court and the duty of President of RIK, and under the then applicable Law on Judges was explicitly prohibited. Now let the wise Gilas answer that question, and the Wolf of Jeremiah. Sonja Brkic took two million and 673 thousand dinars in the RIK thus unlawfully, behold, miracles. She refused to pay that money back. However, the European Commission's 2010 report said, I will quote, because I do not like to speak, quote - reforms produced by the government in Serbia are a special concern. The final quote, from the book "Court Reform in Serbia 2008-2012", page 96. And the European Commission continues, I quote -- the judges' re-election process was non-transparent and risking the principle of judicial independence. It's a finished quote. You see, honourable MPs and respected citizens. What's worse, I quote from that book, from the wonderful reform that Dragan Gilas carried out, quote - the reforms that the government is carrying out were like the worst possible thing. It's a finished quote. And this is not only in the book "Court Reform 2008-2012", but also published by Belgrade's "Politika" on July 7th 2012. Not to speak further, to be brief, the judiciary today in Serbia is still at a certain envious level, but there will be plenty of water and Sava in Vienna until it's at that stage we really want. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, since this is pre-election time, you have seen who has run for president of Serbia, none other than Zdravko Ponos. Allow me a few sentences, quite responsible for what I'm about to say. As chief of Serbia's Army General Staff, he was executed for Serbia's Army, the most devastating in the history of the military. He was so executed that his commander-in-chief, Boris Tadic, gave him up, and now he's being won over by Vuk Jeremic. Mr Boris Tadic also spoke of him best these days. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today every Serbian Army officer is red with shame, especially in recent days, every day, when they see that Serbia's Army rating is given by Zdravko Ponos. As a general of the army, he stood calm in front of NATO lieutenants while the brave Serb army handed over to The Hague tribunal. Zdravko Ponos promised the US senator that Serbia's Army would reduce from 62,000 to 20,000 and, respected citizens, it did. Anyone who thought as a patriot was expelled from the Serbian Army during Zdravko Ponos. Let me just say he retired, besides, the 28 best generals. He destroyed Serbia's Army, brought it down to the fire unit. Not only that, he destroyed all the PV systems. Believe it or not, but it's true, Zdravko Ponos destroyed 9,218 missiles called "Strela" and about 240 launchers for those missiles. You know why Zdravko Ponoš destroyed them? Exactly because they proved very effective during our country's criminal NATO bombing. And not only that, Zdravko Ponoš destroyed over 200 tanks. And not only that, he destroyed over 120 armored transmitters. And not only that, Zdravko Ponoš destroyed 90 hoodies. And not only that, Zdravko Ponoš destroyed 36 thresholds. What he did, when he was Chief of Staff, was buy eight, believe it or not, a MiG-29 rocket, and this MiG-29 flew only on Saturdays, and behold, miracles, carried only hay for horses. Zdravko Ponoš worked at the Centre for Sustainable Development of Vuk Jeremic. I am now asking him in front of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia -- does Zdravko Ponos know who Mrs. Rais is from Switzerland? At Jeremic's Centre for Sustainable Development, she worked as an adviser. I don't know if it's working right now, but respected citizens, let me tell you who this lady is. This Mrs. Rais has been lobbying for decades for Kosovo's independence, look at the wonders, and then you don't find it strange that our people's pogrom happened during the time the Chief of Staff was Zdravko Ponos. What is the relationship between Zdravko Ponos and Vuk Jeremic and this lady from Switzerland? What's very, very strange, true, is that Zdravko Ponos wasn't defending his house as a soldier. Army General Ratko Mladic once said, I quote: "The man who gives life for his homeland is not dead, the soldier who did not defend his house threshold is dead," the quote concluded. Mr. Ponosh, take this quote put it as a soldier, if you're a soldier, in the living room to remind yourself daily of what you've done. Let me say two more three sentences about Dragan Gilas, who was proposed by Professor Vladet Jankovic as mayor of Belgrade. I'm not going to talk about it specifically, because Mr. Bakarec said it very well, but I think Mr. Jankovic said it for himself. He said he didn't understand the mayor's business. I, as a professor, am also giving him a suggestion, which was the president of the municipality, so it's about me in 1998, the one who didn't run the municipality let's not run for mayor. So much for Mr. Dr. Vladeti Jankovic. He said himself he didn't know these jobs. Where would it lead us to? As for Gilas, Gilas never, but never, never, is, Gilas for Hungarians and Europe, but for Serbs, Gilas, it is known from his passports, never took care of the development of Belgrade. The best one was described in 2009 by Cameron Marter, who said, quote: "I was told by Gilas - I am not interested in the development of Belgrade, but only in marketing and not in fact," finished the quote. Let me just say a few more sentences. So for Dragan Gilas the construction of the National Museum in Belgrade for 13 years was just marketing, is it true, respected citizens, you are witnesses, and for Alexander Vukic the reality. Today it is one of the most modern museums. So for Dragan Gilas the construction of the Contemporary Art Museum in Belgrade was just a false promise for 16 years, and for Alexander Vukic the reality. You, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are witnessing this. So for Dragan Gilas the reconstruction of the Republic Square in Belgrade was a false promise, and for Alexander Vukic the reality. You are witnesses, respected Belgrade citizens and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thus, the revitalisation of "Zelezare Smederevo" for Dragan Gilas for 10 years was a false promise and marketing, and for Alexander Vukic, one of the most modern ironworks in this part of the Balkans, etc., which stands extremely today. So for Dragan Gilas the construction of the fast track Belgrade-Novi Sad was only marketing for years, and for Alexander Vukic, respected citizens you have seen these days, reality. You're witnesses, respected citizens about it. So for Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic for years the construction of the modern House of Health in Borca was just marketing, i.e. a false promise, and for Aleksandr Vukic, as you saw respected Belgraders, especially respected citizens of Borca, Kotez and the surrounding places, you saw that we received one of the most modern homes of health. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I could list by tomorrow what these false promises were for Dragan Djilas, for Vuk Jeremic, for Boris Tadic, and for Alexander Vukic. It's enough to see this, too. Finally, while Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, is working daily against the interests of our country, and this is viewed in the first row, when Gilas said back eight days if he received power, first thing he would do, take the 100 most capable lawyers and stop all the construction that is currently happening in Serbia. I ask him how we're gonna raise our salaries, pensions? Not "p", respected citizens from wages, or "p" from pensions. While they lie daily, muddying the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you have heard them both these days and filled their pockets, until Alexander Vukic daily leads a fight for the prosperity of our country, a struggle for the health of all our citizens, not only in the country, but also abroad, a struggle for peace that we desperately need, a fight for the security of our country. What's most important is economic prosperity. Finally, respected citizens, remember well, Serbia in 2021 and 2025 enters accelerated modernisation. If we stop this now, we will arrive at the level of 2012, which is the time when the government still had Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic. They then, until then, destroyed our past, destroyed our present, destroyed the future of our children. If they had only stayed a year in power, they would have destroyed our past. You, respected citizens of Serbia and Belgrade, did not give it to them and do not give it to them on 3 April. Thank you. Long live Serbia! Long live our president!
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12355	Before I give you my word, just to point out, dear People's Messenger, that the person who threw it to you is not Hungarian, but sitting behind Hungarians, that there is no ill interpretation, it is well-intentioned. Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12356	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to ask the question again, what is the name of the Serb tank killer? Cornet. What's the name of the Croatian tank killer? Zdravko Ponos, who, unfortunately, is far more efficient and likely to be prosecuted by the prosecution, Mr Martinovic, for crimes against the state because they are likely to be committed by destroying the weapons. Ladies and gentlemen, I will continue to wish to present the crimes committed by Borko Stefanovic to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I heard a song that reads roughly like this, it says, it's like "Goji band", since mine are instigating over the Drina, it's the most famous group that sings in Republika Srpska. The song reads: "With Gar, Rističević Savo goes to Vrakar according to the electoral right, now Gara walks on the doorman, for Gilas she will not vote." It'll probably be lyrics embedded in the song. As for the crime, Mr. Martinovic, you certainly know that the spread of racial, religious hatred, national and impatience, that it is punishable by law and that there is a criminal act that Borko Stefanovic, and to remind you that the person who changed his name because of the election has changed because of the election several parties, has changed his residence, only the gender has not changed yet, and that is not excluded, to be elected. To remind me that before the Belgrade elections from Novi Sad, he moved to Belgrade only to be elected a councilman. So, the one who has changed his residence, who has become a chosen person by changing his residence, challenges someone that only has an election right, although the one who wants to, who takes citizenship and possibly wants to gain electoral rights, the electoral right, wants it just for the sake of the vote, and for the sake of office. The one who did it because of his post, now resents someone on citizenship, which is only a prerequisite for the right to vote through the residence or to vote somewhere in the consulate or embassy on BiH territory. In doing so, I know that some of our citizens living in Sandzak both vote in Sarajevo and, say, Novi Pazar, Tutin, Sjenica, etc. And nobody's asking that question, we don't really want to count ourselves. There are many who live in Macedonia so they also vote in Kosovo, vote in Medvedja, Bujanovac and Presevo, and we do not ask the question, but there is Borko Stefanovic, who, in my opinion, has done a criminal act of spreading impatience. Of course, the D.A. didn't do anything. Now, we who voted for the prosecution to be completely independent are wondering why it isn't that Manojlović Sava, is that right, Chute, why aren't they sanctioned? I was taught that when a public prosecutor finds out that some crime has been committed, he's running a formal procedure. I have not seen, gentlemen of the D.A.'s office, that you have filed any procedure, that you have launched against Sava Manojlovic and against Tzuta, and I do not know of all the organisers, the inspirers, the various undeclared gatherings, which is a violation, which prevents freedom of movement, which is punishable, since the prosecutors probably do not read the Criminal Code, so we have something that we want to comment on, which is a violation of the Constitution, and it is punishable under the Criminal Code, Article 133. No prosecutor or deputy has conducted any procedure in connection with the conduct of these crimes, and there have been violence during the blockade of more international roads, there have been violence, so some have protected the village of Nedeljica by shouting and beating up drivers, with the cry of "mother peasant". So that's what happened, too, but I don't see the D.A.'s office running these procedures to get some punishment under the law. He says a saying, "He who does not prevent evil, does this new evil." So unless evil is punished, it is in a certain way encouraged and encouraged to commit a new evil. So, I didn't see the D.A.'s office, let alone the judiciary, react and no matter how much I don't think we're going to get the rule of law first, we're going to get the rule of justice. We'll get full lawns of various embassies all over Belgrade, full of judicial officials, at least that's what I think, so I guess I have a right to say. We'll get in some smaller areas honors maybe more than 60% of judges and prosecutors are probably honorable people, but there's a certain group that will and how this freedom will be misused and I think we'll get the rule of judges in some areas, that we'll get a collection of independent trades, bigger or smaller and that certain verdicts through some law offices will be ordered like a drink order, etc. Now we have some similar experiences with this, as before in the judiciary we do not have the court of ruling parties right now, we have the court of the former regime party, so with that famous reform, the deformity in 2009, 2010 made the court of their own party, which they typed in the explanation "is honorable, is a member of DS etc", it was their main choice to choose their judges not to respond when they lost power as it happened. Thanks to this reform, none of them have spent the entire social property, stolen, no one has responded because they had the court of their party, and of course crows do not take their eyes out, their flesh is not eaten and there has been no punishment for various crimes and wealth on the back of the people. Gilas is the best example, escaped by that director, Drinic, I guess that's what he's called, no one in the judiciary mentions him, let alone try to bring this prince to justice from Mauritius, or bring this Duke of Schools of Southampton to justice because by breaking the law on advertising and breaking media laws, he has crushed a great deal of wealth and only on illegal commercials annually takes about 150m euros against the law. No one falls into the prosecution's mind to initiate proceedings against the Duke of Southampton and then he buys us some of the first-line English clubs there for 120m euros and takes on more commitments, that's what people need to know, the debts of Southampton, another 120m euros. So the 240m-euro transaction was illegally acquired in Serbia. Let him try there to publicly break the laws and re-emission the programs in Great Britain and re-emitting illegal advertising, so he'll see how it goes in that England. It was easy for them to steal Serbia in yellow times and invest it like those Russian oligarchs who take it from Russia. It exists only in Russia and Serbia, those unfortunate, stealing money, taking it out and buying it and gardening in England. But England won't let them steal it and bring it to Serbia. It was only Sasa Radulovic who managed to rip off the Americans and come to Serbia, and I have to mention that positive example, if it is positive, that Sasa Radulovic managed to steal Americans and probably bring them to Serbia. For example, he is far more honorable than Gilas and Solak, who stole money in Serbia and carried it out to England, even laughing at us in a certain way. I invite everyone from Republika Srpska, all citizens of the former Yugoslav republics, regardless of nationality, to take advantage of the opportunity and to take advantage of their right to vote for whoever they really want, in accordance with all the laws, regardless of nationality, and especially the Serbs from Republika Srpska, that if they need a residence eventually or otherwise, without any problem, we can regulate it. Because it is their right that if they meet all the legal assumptions, they come to the polling post to vote, as well as take advantage of the embassy and consulates in BiH. They're kind of my father's and grandfather's favorites. That is why I believe that in a negative light Mr. Gilas and Mr. Borko Stefanovic will be sung in that song I have already recited. Ladies and gentlemen, about the Republic Election Commission, to say that our citizens should know that Alexander Vukic has donated six members of RIK to the extraparliamentary parties at his request, and for so many members of the RIK, you would need about 90 MPs. So, despite the lack of 90 MPs in the Assembly, he assigned six members of the RIK to them in a certain way, through a request to us. With 20 opposition electoral lists sure, it means that the opposition will have an absolute majority in RIK, in local electoral commissions and in election committees, where it is in constant composition, out-of-parliament parties, also donated 16,000 members and deputy members of the election committees. I want our citizens to know, given that these unfortunate people who have sold everything alive, including the national interest of the Serbian state, I want to tell them that the government cannot steal the elections and that it will, because the elections are conducted by RIK, local election committees and election committees, and not by the government, and in all of these bodies there is no government of the Republic of Serbia, opposition parties will do most, and if someone can theoretically steal the elections, I believe it will not happen, they can only do so by opposition parties, because they have a majority, as they did last time, regardless of what some political parties did not go to the elections. So, the opposition had a majority in 2020, had a majority and 2016, especially since it had 22 representatives in the RIK. Someone who wants to steal the election can only steal it if he's a member and has most of the organs to conduct the election. The government or government of the Republic of Serbia provides only technical, financial and material preconditions, space, funding for the election campaign, funding for the conduct of the elections and for the determination of results. Everything else is being done by the electoral authorities, and therefore they should not fall for the stories of Dragan Gilas and the unfortunate around him. I'm surprised, for example, that the marines, carrying the list, hit the dick of the Vlach, I'm almost surprised. I thought she was gonna hit Duke, and she hit Dick Vlach. It's a surprise to me, and that says they're ready to eat among themselves, just to prove that there's supposed to be some kind of abuse and theft, so they can raise the uprising, and Mr. Independent Prosecutors and Judges won't be independent of the laws of the divine and any kind of rebellion or calls for rebellion should be treated by the Criminal Code. Finally, to say that I am not satisfied, as are the citizens, that Solak and Gilas have not been processed in a serious way and that the evidence has not been collected in a serious way. Valtazar Bogisic says that the biggest accident when one of his evil deeds is still benefiting, and this clearly refers to Solak and Gilas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12357	Thank you. The word has been given by the honourable MP Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12358	Ladies and gentlemen, our courts and prosecutors are buried with pending cases. Court proceedings take too long and citizens wait too long for justice. This is because we as a people like to sue and report when and when there is no need for courts and prosecutors to be around the couture with the staff, they never have enough judges and prosecutors to do what is necessary in accordance with the number of cases and the third reason is that courts and prosecutors do not do their job well. That is why I always look forward to the choice of new judges and prosecutors on the agenda because I expect the Serbian judiciary to be more effective afterwards, that Serbian citizens will wait shorter. Today we are considering 16 judges who are first elected to the duty and selection of 29 prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors. Among them are Maja Sikimic, an expert associate at the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Smederevo, who was proposed as deputy public prosecutor in the Great Plan. When I heard about this proposal, I contacted the Public Prosecutor in the Great Plan, Slavica Ivanovic, interested in what kind of personnel solution it is and here's her answer, she says – it's a very good child, I've worked with her on several cases, I don't know if she's better as a person or as an expert, we in the prosecution in the Great Plan are all looking forward to her coming. Her statement concludes that the people of the High Prosecutor's Council in the Great Plane case have done their job well. What is important is that after the election, Maja Sikimic, the Public Prosecutor's Office in the Great Plan, will be staffed. A public prosecutor and five deputies are scheduled to work there according to the system. I remind you that a month and a half ago, on December 15th, we elected five new judges who are in the Main Court in the Great Plan. There's supposed to be 18 judges, now there's 17. So, there's still one judge left to choose in the Main Court in the Great Plan, and then we can say that the institutions, the judicial institutions in the Great Plan, are staffed. This means that the High Council of the Judiciary and the D.A., but this Assembly has done their job well. Now it's up to the judges and prosecutors to get to work, to work better than before, to make sure the court proceedings don't last four, five, six years, and even more years, and that the prosecution's cases aren't scheduled until after four, five months for some serious crime. We today need to choose the Republic Election Commission and thus implement another, last in a series of agreements reached in the inter-party dialogue between the parties of the government and the opposition. The agreement implies that opposition parties which do not have parliamentary status have their representatives in the permanent composition of the Republic Election Commission. It's six members and six deputies. I repeat what I said four days ago, that it was a precedent. So, it doesn't exist anywhere in Europe, it doesn't exist anywhere in these countries either, they say, Western democracies that the government gives to an opposition that doesn't have parliamentary status to have its own representatives in the state commission that conducts the elections. The fact that we from the ruling coalition, above all from the SNS and the SPS, have agreed to do to the opposition and this concession is the best confirmation that there are much more democracies in Serbia than the opposition claims and that there is much more democracy than there can be when the texts are read, when contributions to the media are heard, on the portals controlled by the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12359	Thank you. The word has an important folk MP, Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12360	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable members of the High Council of the Judiciary, the D.A., I'm sure you've chosen the best candidates. There must be over 95% of extremely honest, honest people among you, and I'm sure even that percent is higher. But it happened that some people weren't exactly like that. I don't want to name names, I've talked about it a hundred times, but it's not normal for someone who calls themselves a judge to tell a 13-year-old girl that it's a folklore among the Roma. It's not normal for the same person on the state's manger to have an NGO, you'll agree. It's not normal to run for president from that position. If he wants to run, he can leave the judiciary and run for office. It's not normal for him to play "The Gjilan Group" that killed women, children, Serbs. It's not normal. I'm sure from now on, as of tomorrow, it will change from today, and that you're really choosing the best between you, which makes me very happy. You're hanging out with an independent state body, and that's how it's supposed to stay. The election's coming, so somehow the opposition people are pretty nervous. We get such an insult that I just don't know whether to answer that or not to answer that. Of course, I'm not going to do it their way, because from a respected professor who I thought was a great gentleman, Mr. Vladeta Jankovic said we were bots, that we were pastures released from the chain. Imagine the term pastures released from the chain. For these people here, educated, normal, dear, who are chosen by the people here to be said to be pastures. The doctor, a professor of the University, when he would come, as I hear, a candidate for the president of Belgrade, said he would tear down "Belgrade on Water". The gentleman in question was our ambassador to London, so he saw that parliament had entered the Thames, two meters in the Thames, that Scotland Yard was on the promenade, that the most profitable quarters were on the promenade. "Belgrade on Water" is one of the most beautiful promenades in this part of the world. I'm not sure what he's gonna take down. That's where people bought apartments, people from these places, strangers and everyone else. Who's he gonna take down? Then he says -- a monument to Stefan Nemanja, the progeny of the Nemmanic dynasty that we are proud of, that it should be moved to Marinko's bar. I'm sorry, I live on the Leader, don't insult my Leader. I'm a patriot's place. And not only that, he insults Palilu, but then he doesn't need Marinko's bar. There live wonderful people, Roma, my friends. When I was working at the City Hall of the Leaders, I helped them as much as I could and how I could. They're very grateful, they're wonderful, they're kind, whatever you ask them for. All the same ones who spit on that Marink bar and my Vozdovac are going to the mall of the Stadium that was newly created, from a few years ago. Why didn't they remember saying that Ripanj didn't have water until 2010, he didn't have city water, hundreds of families didn't have city water, but a well, so he went 500 meters to get water? About the sewers so I don't talk. What didn't he and his buddies talk about, build a water line, make a sewer, build a infrastructure in Belgrade, which we've been building since 2012, but the story of the collapse, the story of how the monument isn't good here, but should go to Marinkov's bar or Borch? It's a beautiful community. It's beautiful. Each part of Belgrade, 17 municipalities have, is divine. My community is urbanly rural, beautiful people live there. Belgrade is a beautiful city, Serbia is the most beautiful country in the world. If you don't love this government and the President of the Wolf, don't don't love your country, people! Well, you're the one who went to the ambassador for an opinion. We have an opinion. Let's just remember what he was doing, I didn't mention Mr. Vuk Jeremic, who ruled Serbia at the time of the robbery privatisation. You remember then they sold 300,000 of the most fertile countries for 50m euros. Do you know what they're worth now? It's worth 70 times that, three and a half billion. That's what they did. Well Agrobanka, they were taking loans without cover, which, of course, when we came to power we had to return. They've done a lot of things. The machine's brain has done 619 million. Well, how does a machine's brain not create 619m euros now? The bridge on Ada costs 400m euros. The same in France, twice as long, twice as wide, cost 200 million. Where did that $200 million go? That's not what I'm saying. That's what the Anti-Corruption Agency is talking about. Listen up, people, 35 apartments! How is that possible? How? The machine's brain. Here, I'm a sociologist. I'm probably not intelligent enough to make 35 apartments. Well, if I had, I'd give these people nothing. In their time, in 2008, 1,000 judges and prosecutors were fired, so when we came to power, I mean the Serbian Progressive Party, we had to pay people back and get them back to work in 2013. We paid more than 45m euros in compensation. Of course, it's going downhill. That's not the kind of thing you do. Well, this is the most wonderful country in the world. Once he gets to Serbia, he comes back all the time. The hospitality, the hospitality, the food, all the good. We're still a healthy environment. I don't understand these impulses – it's no good, it's no good, it's no good, it's no good. So, how's it going? This is the greatest patriot since I've known about myself since I've studied history, Mr. Wolf. Look what he's done, 400 kilometers of highways, and there's a hundred miles of highways in the projection. There's 10 highways built and two fast cars, people! Revitalizing the tracks, 750 kilometers revitalized the railroad. My colleague Milanka, who lives in Priboj, traveled for eight and a half hours, and now travels two and a half hours shorter. When it's revitalized and everything else, it's going to travel like the whole normal world. We've been traveling like divers, when we leave, we don't know when we'll be there. We're building fast tracks, 200 kilometers will be speed. Here, it was already a rehearsal from Belgrade to Novi Sad, will be ready by March. So it'll take us half an hour to get to New Now. Then we will build to the border, and from the border to Budapest will build of course Hungarians. Extraordinary! I don't know what he didn't do anymore. It's building a subway. Hospitals have been renovated. Schools have been renovated. We've made new kindergartens. I'm not saying it's enough, but we'll keep working. We've never had a bigger budget for the city in our life. We set aside a billion and 358.8m euros for the city of Belgrade for this year, so that the city of Belgrade looks what it should look like, as a world metropolis, to build sacks, to make facades that are down. If the SNS hadn't come, Belgrade was so dark. No wonder we've been bombed over 45 times, but people love it, it has some specific energy. Whoever comes once comes back a hundred times, they all say it, from politicians, through Hollywood actors, and through all the people I've met, the ordinary people who come, the Americans, the Russians, whoever wants to be here again. You only remember how many people came to live with us, just because we have extraordinary conditions for life, not standard, but good people, good food and still healthy environment. I would now return to the other day, when President Vukic was at the opening of the Chinese Olympic Games, to honor this one of the greatest statesmen of the world of Mr. Si Jinping and came with extraordinary news, first of all, that a free trade contract will soon be signed. I have to say, I was thrilled, and not just me, but the whole normal world. You know what that means, soft for investors, because there will be minimum taxes, not only for the Republic of Serbia, but also for the environment, under one. Under two, direct flights between Belgrade and China, i.e. Shanghai and Beijing, have been discussed and will certainly be opened, which would be remarkable for both business and tourism, absolutely for everyone. Also, a new investment has been announced to go south to Serbia, specifically going to Nis, will be next in Kragujevac. It's divine. Let's just remember what our strategic partners and occupied friends did for Jellyzar Smederevo. They hired 5,000 people, which means now 15,000 people can live because they have families. Also, they revitalised RTB Bor. They invest in our infrastructure, build the Fruskogorski corridor, build bridges, tunnels, railways, build a fast traffic station in Ruma-Shabac-Loznica. That's the way it's done, people. If you don't like the president, say, "Give me something better." There's no better, he's never been born a bigger patriot. Mr. Vukic lives for this Serbia, so you can see it at every turn. The World Economic Forum for the Fourth Industrial Revolution in the Republic of Serbia will also be built. Do you know what that means? Sixteen are in the world, only in Europe are made both in Russia and now in Serbia. Well, that's an improvement for Serbia, that's an amazing thing. So the digitization of advanced technology will be done here, will be directly linked to the government's office, but also to the organisation of civil society. It's going to be biotechnology, biomedicine, artificial intelligence. That's the way it's done, people. Serbia today and Serbia 12 years ago, 10 years ago, here, so we came to power at the republican level in 2012, we came to the Voždovac municipality in 2010, like the sky and the country. In 2008, 26% of the unemployed were unemployed, today 9% of the unemployed, just because we had a covid, and how we did the hoof, thanks to the smartness, speed and connections, the foreign policy led by our President, Mr. Vukic, is fascinating. We first had respirators, first we got vaccines, in the beginning of four species, now we have five types of vaccines. We've got the meds now. Guys, we've built three hoofs of hospitals. And I could talk for hours, and I'll probably talk Monday, because we've done so much. I'm only saying this because the election is April 3rd and people are supposed to vote for the results, just for the results. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12361	Thank you. The word has the esteemed Dr. Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12362	The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the Greater Prosecutor's Office, respected citizens of Serbia, today's session may be called, not to be a big word, but certainly a historic session, given that today at this session for the last time, in accordance with the current Constitution and law, we will vote on judges who are first elected to the office and deputy public prosecutors, of course, in accordance with the current constitution. But at the session scheduled right after today's vote, we will declare the amendment of the Constitution, which is certainly due to the referendum decision, of course, in accordance with the law, or in accordance with the interests and decisions of our citizens. This is how one rule of law works, where the state stands first, right next to the state, and everything else is less important. If we remember, not so long ago, judicial reform at the time of those who are in parties that no one in this Serbia can count, because they don't know exactly what they're called either, at this point stealing the names of some smaller organisations, but no one, absolutely no one is sure who the opposition party is in. I am sure that certain members of their members must invite Marinika Tepic, Djilas, Zelenovic in the morning, not to skip out of that thieving team, and check out which foreigners they are on today, as they are today. But these people have reformed the judiciary and, from that reform, 1,037 judges and public prosecutors, the deputy public prosecutors have lost their post. Then what happened? It took two years, three years for these people to get back to work, big losses for the state, but, above all, great losses for the judiciary, they took years and years to make it right. On the other hand, there are other people and different decisions and justice decided by this assembly majority, this government and this president, and that judiciary, when it does reform, is also going to change the Constitution. And why is that? With only one goal, to have an absolute independence and independence and the judiciary and the prosecution. Now, that's the difference between this thieving team and the country led by Alexander Vukic. Each normal is enough to look at what was in their reform of the judiciary, what reform of the judiciary is being conducted by the state led by Aleksandar Vukic. I'd just ask and take the opportunity, ask the judiciary, the judiciary to just protect us from the arrogant people, from people who think they can buy everything, from people who think money is bought by people, to buy money, to buy elections, to buy money for victory. Well, Dragan Gilas, that's not so. Perhaps you can buy a new one, one, two, three, five, ten, twelve, maybe you can buy a Marinika Tepic, Vuk Jeremic, Nebojsa Zelenovica, again I will forget someone, I apologize, you may be able to buy a football club Southampton in England, you may be able to buy some that are for sale, but you can't buy voters in Serbia, you can't buy a victory and you can't buy a seat or president of the Republic of Serbia, and you can't buy a sufficient number of votes to enter the National Assembly. What is also a message, it is that they will not be able to buy either people living in Belgrade, but neither people living in Shappac, nor people living in any part of Serbia, because simple victory is won on results, is given honor, honesty and all that has been done in the past ten years. Where anyone is at this point clearly shows how much support the citizens have. So who's going to be president of America, whether it's Trump or Biden, they've decided to be citizens of America. And Trump could do whatever he was doing, but it wasn't enough. People wanted another president, so they got it. Who is President of Russia is decided by the citizens of Russia and it is clear support for Putin and it is simple. And who will be and who the Serbian president decides Serbian citizens. Gilas can make as much money as he wants, he can lobby on foreign embassies, he can threaten, he can blackmail, he can invent and lie, he has, brother, a couple of TVs he bought and paid and those people talk for all the money. He can also buy a candidate for mayor of Belgrade. If one respected professor and a doctor says he's not capable of that place and he's smart enough to say, well, people I can't be mayor, it's just not a place for me, I can't fulfill that function, although I would get it, I can't, I can't run, and then what happens? Does he take any pills and become a great candidate for mayor or does something else happen? It may also be a question for the people of the judicial authorities, but there's some Gilasu and his candidate serving honor as a man who claims he can't be mayor overnight suddenly become a perfect candidate, so let him explain it to his potential voters, because people are simply aware of who Dragan Gilas is and who are at all the people he finances and who are the people who are willing to sell their name and honor for trying to be in a position. We also have a former mayor of Capca who, it seems, seems to me, called his association "We must and we must". Imagine if they called, I don't know if they're a group of what they are, I'm just telling you, no one in Serbia can name who they are or where they are members of that former yellow octopus, but I think we have to. I understand that he has to, people have to, they're paid by Dragan Gilas, they're paid by criminals, they're paid by tycoons, they have to. Well, they have to, but they don't have Serbian citizens. Serbian citizens vote whoever they want, and they want someone who works honestly, who works exclusively in their interest. And, never, in recent or distant history, has anyone worked as hard as Alexander Wolfich. And no one has ever done as much for 10 years as Alexander Vukic has done, but in order for everyone to be satisfied, satisfied in the sense that no one can say – well, people have been through this election by someone stealing the election. Who can steal the election? Well, nobody can. And there's always the one who's lost. And, in order for it not to be stolen, he stole the one, and the only ones who stole the election were the ones who were talking about the theft. The only person accused and convicted of buying votes in Sapac, as far as I know, was the activist Nebojsa Zelenovic, who bought votes for Nebojsa Zelenovic. He was accused and Nebojsa Zelenovic, so the gentleman accepted that he himself bought votes for his boss, that he did not blame Nebojsa Zelenovic, but we know who was to blame. And not only Nebojsa Zelenovic, but also his mentor Dusan Petrovic, of course. Then what do people do? Simply, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia should know that at today's session, we will have the last law, or proposal to vote on the new agenda, is the proposal for a decision on resolution, appointing to the RIK. Six members and deputy RIK will receive people who have never entered this assembly, have not received support from citizens. It has always been and will always be that whoever enters this Assembly is decided by citizens, but that there would be no minority, if someone had stolen votes, never in recent history has anyone given up most of the city's electoral commission, the RIK, municipal election commissions and polling stations. Well, for the record, the citizens of Serbia, the theft of which Đilas, Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic and Marinika Tepic are talking about, etc., is a theft organised by those who are calling for theft. The Serbian Progressive Party, which has an absolute majority in the assembly, which has an absolute majority of 95 municipal and city halls, precisely in the city's election commissions, will not have a majority. Here, most of you and the election committees. Here, most of you and RIK. Not when the count is finished on April 3rd to talk about stealing votes, because you were the only one who could arrange it, but you were the only one who could do it. The Serbian Progressive Party has never, and since 2012, arrived until 2022, never been charged, nor participated, nor tried to steal her votes, and that will be the case. There is no need for someone who has absolute support for Serbian citizens to talk about it at all. And those who steal votes can never even get the support of Serbian citizens. Sixteen thousand members of city and municipal election commissions will be representatives of the opposition. Six members and vice-members of the RIK have given the opposition, those who talk about the electoral theft they're preparing for, and when they lose their organisation again on April 3rd, someone stole from us. No one has stolen you from the opposition, no one will baptize you, the citizens of Serbia know who they will support, as they knew in previous years and those who must, such as Nebojsa Zelenovic, let them, let them war what they must, he does not even know who will be the candidate because he has not yet received instructions from those who give him money. But these days he'll probably tell him who has to, what he has to do. We don't have to do anything, we just need to follow the path of the future for our children, the way of new jobs, new investments, the path of even more successful Serbia, and the scale that literally, the days, thanks to Alexander Vukic, is rising more and more, will certainly be moved for the future of our Serbia, for the future of our children. We're voting for Alexander Vukic, and we know we're on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12363	Thank you. There is a word, honourable MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12364	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia, I think we're making some historic decisions from session to session, and that's how it is today. Today after this session, we will confirm that we have changed the Constitution in a referendum where most citizens voted for a change in the Constitution, that politicians will never again choose judges, prosecutors, never in party circles, assembly benches, anywhere about politics, to decide who will judge on behalf of the people and who will be prosecutors in Serbia. Today we are doing it for the last time, but I believe that the decision that the Serbian citizens made for the vast majority in the referendum is exactly what we have been waiting for for for decades in this country and for what we are, and I thought so until the referendum by January 16th, everyone is at the political stage. However, a well-intentioned man sometimes cheats, so I cheated on him on January 16th expecting most political entities or perhaps all political entities to support a change, though to support a change in the constitution when it comes to the choice of judges in the country's prosecutor. However, the majority led by the SNS, President Alexander Vukic and our coalition partners did invite citizens to come forward with a referendum, but one part of the political scene, the tycoon one, the criminal one, was against it. It is clear to me why, but we need to discuss this a little more because of citizens who are watching this and for all those who have dealt with us in previous years, with everyone we have talked to throughout Serbia and who have come to the MPs, to their representatives, presented their problems that they have faced for decades back. Generally, these problems referred to the work of the judiciary, judges, corruption, prosecutors, various forms of political influence, direct or indirect. This change in the Constitution is the result of our long-term view of this area that I speak of and of what the people wanted. The people's wish is to have an independent judiciary and an independent prosecution. For judges to choose who are the most competent, those who are the most professional and those who are invited to do so also refer to prosecutors. Why doesn't it fit one part of the political scene, the one that has everything she's got, the one she's got in stealing, the thief, so simply, just that, everything they've acquired, the way they've acquired doesn't fit them, because this country's used to running absolutely at all levels, all the judges being party-set, all the prosecutors, everyone ever employed, anywhere in the judiciary, had to be hand-marked and had a book of the yellow tycoon enterprise, so that he could work there. And you couldn't be a judge or prosecutor or any function responsible for being elected in this country if you weren't party-colored, i.e. If you're not defined to support tycoons and mobsters in power. This will never happen again in Serbia for the first reason, because never again in Serbia will there be tycoons and mobsters in the image and the Sunday of Dragan Gilas and his associates, and for the second reason we bring a final amendment to the Constitution by which they will not be able to do so formally. So this country will finally be in this sense the choice of a judge, prosecutors freed from party and political influence. What is waiting for us in the next two months for all the decisions we've made in this conference and the previous one? We are awaiting that the threats continue, that they will continue, above all, a threat to President Aleksandr Vukic, that the withdrawal of SNS officials will continue, that they will continue to threaten and dispel officials close to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that they will continue threats to all citizens who do not want to vote for what Dragan Dilas represents, what she represents Serbia's dark, accident, crime led by Djilas, led by both Tadic and Jeremic, and Obradovic and everyone else on the other side. All of them left this country only debts and misfortunes, all of them left only closed factories, left chains, locks, everything Alexander Vukic had to open, build and build after they left power. My colleague Malušić said – we built hundreds of kilometers of highways, building 1,200 kilometers of highways, new ones. No government, before SNS and before President Aleksandar Vukic, has done so much for the infrastructure in Serbia as this authority, none at all. No government in the past 50 years, as long as citizens in Serbia were promised the metro didn't run anything about the subway, absolutely nothing. This government in Belgrade, of course, with the huge support of President Aleksandar Vukic, began to build Belgrade Metro and a parallel work will be done on the first and second subway lines. I wanted to say something about that, too. They say that when the subway is built, it'll be completely useless. I believe Gilas is useless. You know, those who have private planes, yachts, cars of hundreds of thousands of euros, accounts around the world, they don't need a subway at all. They only needed the subway as a pre-election promise to make citizens, so to speak, "put them to vote for them and support further robbery of their own country". This authority has decided to do what is best for the citizens, especially when it comes to the metro, in the interests of the citizens of Belgrade, and to finally solve both issues and crowds and to modernise this city at last, to bring it to the level at which the world's largest metropolis are, to finally have the metro. After half a century of promise, and it used to be said, a promise, a mad joy, they thought this people was crazy, so they promised from the cycle of election to the cycle -- there will be a metro, there will be bridges, there will be wonders. We remember that bridge they took 500m euros from, colleague Ugleish, right? We have today these parallel two subway lines that will be built. What does that mean for the city of Belgrade? It will also pass through the city centre, through populated parts of the city of Belgrade. They don't care. It's important to lie. To say that we're going to destroy the springs, that I don't know what to ruin, that we're going to mutilate in the city of Belgrade. Remember the clothed terraces in New Belgrade, remember the city's "Tazl" on Vozdovac, which was built without any building permits, and which cost hundreds of millions of dinars to the citizens of Voždovac and Belgrade, in which a child, had ever been released from the work of this "Pazl City" could have lost a child's life. Now, these are the misdemeanors left by Dragan Gilas and Belgrade and Serbia. Let's get back on the road. Which is why no roads are needed. He says, "Why do we need highways?" That's not necessary. You've had enough of two highways, and that's the end of the story. That's enough for him. Of course, when he does not build, when they build responsible and honest people, when Serbian citizens will use it, not tycoons and mobsters, then the highway is not needed. Of course, all this needs Serbia, and over 300 factories. Well, here's Aleksandar Vukic, the other day, said he was negotiating with over 92, if I'm not mistaken, a new investor who wants to invest his money in the Republic of Serbia. More than 7.3 billion euros in new investments that are on the verge of entering the Republic of Serbia, precisely thanks to the stability that we have in Serbia President Alexander Vukic, in the responsible policy of the Government of Serbia, in all those laws that are passed in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am free to say, and this referendum on the amendment of the Constitution that says that Serbia is a free country, responsible for having a free, independent prosecutor's office, the judiciary, in which citizens, finally, will be able to say – we finally have the legal system that should be regulated, to be similar to the most developed European countries, and that we can say that we are also thanks to that train that goes over 200km per hour and fast tracks, tomorrow and to Budapest, we have entered this fast train that leads us into the future, all along with Aleksanda Vukica. I call on citizens, once again, on April 3rd in a huge number, everyone to the polls, come out, circle the list of the Serbian Progressive Party and President Aleksandr Vukic for the future of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12365	I thank the honourable MP, Serbia's Filipovic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12366	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one of the points of the agenda that we are now discussing is the Republic Election Commission, its personal changes that it will have if we adopt the proposal. The reason is the alleged desire of the former regime to get fair electoral conditions. You know, when you don't have results while you're in power or you have results that are devastating, when the former regime has exercised power over 600,000 people are out of work. During the former regime, no roads were made, no hospitals were built, no factories were opened and no electoral conditions were required that the former regime in the elections held in 2012... Power. Honestly, as a folk MP who participated and as an opposition MP in many elections, I wish we had had such electoral conditions as the opposition at the time. For the first time since the elections in Serbia have been held, parties that do not participate in the work of parliament will have their representatives in the Republic Election Commission. You know, if the current regime led by Aleksandar Vucic has a stable dinar, a low inflation rate, for a short time employs over 600,000 people, when ten or twelve highways are built, when Serbia is one big construction site, when the minimum earnings are much higher than during the former regime, then someone has to be guilty of the former regime why he can't beat Alexander Vukic in the election. Then they'll always get hold of something. These human rights, these dictatorships, cannot access the media, which of course is not true, have even the media that they control, where they are also owners, up to the very electoral conditions they signed and set up while they were in power. All the time since the 2020 elections, there has been talk of some alleged theft for the 2022 presidential elections and these parliamentary emergency that should be held on the same day. Our citizens don't know that, and that's why someone might believe that story. But in addition to the six members of the Republic Election Commission who come from the order of opposition representatives who are not parliamentary right now, I must tell the citizens that all election bodies are formed according to the following principle. We have a permanent composition, it's now what we choose, and an extended composition. How do you get into an extended composition? Be careful, the Republic Election Commission also has the same principle as the local electoral commissions and election committees. The moment the Republic Election Commission declares a list to you, you have the right to another member of that same commission, another member of the electoral committee and their deputies. Now you can imagine when 20 representatives of the former regime list, if it is possible to collect a sufficient number of signatures, confirm their lists and have their 20 members in the Republic Election Commission and 20 members in election bodies such as election committees, can someone show me how you can abuse this and allegedly steal the election? That's almost impossible. The former regime knows very well that they are losing the election primarily because of how they acted while they were in power. If they were good in power, we would never beat them. If they were opening factories, they'd never beat them. If they built highways, they'd never beat them. If they were building hospitals, they'd never beat them, schools. Now let them think, they have all the time in this world, why they will never again get the chance to rule over Serbia and no organs to conduct elections, bodies, whatever they call them, will help them, because neither the authorities nor the bodies decide, but the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia know best what they were when they were in power. Then comes one next story: dictatorship. What are the markings of dictatorship? A ban on freedom of movement. It can move across Serbia and out of Serbia as anyone wants. The ban on freedom of assembly. Here, we had situations to gather in front of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, now at this point in front of the National Assembly, blocked the highways at undeclared assemblies against the law and no one prevented them from doing so. Nobody. What dictatorship are we talking about then? About the fact that we want young people, who do not have enough life experience and knowledge, to cheat that there is a dictatorship in Serbia, because it is natural, a young man is always full of energy, full of desire for change and that his lack of life experience is used to support the most common thieves who ruled Serbia until 2012. Here, now we have one situation to attack the president of the Republic of Serbia, even plan to write him criminal charges because he promised on a TV show that the state would also help young people because of the removal of the consequences caused by the coronal virus. He says he doesn't have the right to do that, it's a vote buy. We don't buy any votes. The state doesn't exist for itself. The state exists for the sake of its citizens and part of the revenue the state has can also return to its citizens in accordance with the law on which the National Assembly will plead. By assessing Gilas, if by some miracle he comes to power, there will be less than 100m euros in the government's register for him, which he planned to take for himself, as he took for himself while he was in power, that is his problem, but the state exists for the sake of its citizens, to improve the quality of life on a particular territory, to create economic assumptions for its citizens and their businesses that they are developing and progressing. Let's remember what it was like until 2012. A lock lock, a closed factory for a closed factory. The people of Serbia were running away. We are now accused of why young people fled Serbia by 2012. What does the Serbian Progressive Party have to do with it? Also, in the desire to show that there was a dictatorship in Serbia, they kept saying that independence and independence of judicial officials were compromised. Remember only that Majic judge who kept saying that Serbia's judiciary was brought to the brink of destruction, that judges lose their independence and independence in decision making, that the rulings are made from only one centre of power in Serbia, etc., etc. Now I have to ask if any judges have been removed since 2012. It's not one. Is there a judge who's been cleared, unless he's made a condition for retirement or at his own request? It's not one. What kind of dictatorship are we talking about? Does anyone mean that all holders of judicial functions in Serbia are cowards who must not resist this single centre of power? That's not possible. Those who talk about the independence and independence of the judges, just to remind me what kind of reform was carried out in 2010 and 2011. A thousand judges have been relieved by the National Assembly. Thousands of prosecutors were cleared by the National Assembly. Is that judicial reform? The municipal committees of political parties made decisions on who should be elected judge, who should be re-elected. Who is such a political attitude that the party was sympathetic to the candidate for a hearing from the judge or the prosecutor, so they decided. Well, my fellow MPs have read here the decisions of these municipal committees of the Democratic Party. What was the Supreme Cassation Court in? The High Council of the Judiciary in what composition did he work? That is what the Constitutional Court has declared. Imagine that those who talk about the independence and independence of the judges and claim that they are at risk today have chosen as President of the Supreme Cassation Court a person who at that time did not meet the assumptions for the election, without the opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Court and such President of the Supreme Cassation Court passes to the Supreme Council of the judiciary and he decides who will be elected or re-elected as judge or who will be resolved. Well, these are the right features of dictatorship – suspended constitution, suspended independence and independence of the holders of judicial functions. Absolutely then, not from a single centre of power, it was decided what verdicts would be written, because the judges knew that if they did not listen, they could again be hit by Nate Mesarevic, Homena, Nenad Konstantinovic and Bosko Ristic. It was those who ordered the verdicts and who took part in the joke about who would be re-elected and who would be allowed for the judge or prosecutor. Lakrdya. Bosko Ristic planted paper here for the selection of Nate Mesarevic. The paper was planted. It's not in the original of the National Assembly. Try to find him a proposal from the Supreme Cassation Court and the High Council of the judiciary to elect Nate Mesarevic. Try to find him here in the National Assembly. He's gone. He's out of his mind. Nata Mesarevic was elected on a direct proposal through the direct application of the constitution, disrespecting the legal procedure for the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. And it didn't bother Majic, it didn't bother Gilas, it didn't bother Bosca Ristic, it didn't bother Nenad Konstantinovic, it didn't bother Home, it didn't bother the Minister of Justice at the time. No one was bothered because they had an impact on the judiciary and you could write as many criminal charges as you wanted, none of them would be prosecuted. You could have filed lawsuits against companies that were close to the regime in power, or the procedure would stand in some drawer or never be executed on the basis of some claim, ever. Come on, tell me, did anyone get the Delta Company in court at the time? Just give me one example, just one verdict, and you don't think there was any fulfillment of the conditions for the initiation of these proceedings and of the verdicts that would require Miskovic to pay his obligations to the suppliers? They did. But every serious man knew it was a lost battle in advance, because he had his own private judges, he had his own private prosecutors, he had his own private politicians. They have the Supreme Cassation Court, they control the VSS. And now I see this professor talking about, I can't remember, from Law School, who's been a member of the VSS since 2007, 2008 talking about how constitutional changes aren't good, like our judiciary is in chaos, and he's been involved in the making of chaos, and he needs to be embarrassed and covered in ears. To whom does he have any more right to teach and complain? Nothing to anyone. Here, there's also a problem with the fact that the referendum and the change of the Constitution is not good. He says it's not democratic enough. The procedure for selecting judges is not what the former regime would want. What would you like? Well, the same power he had in 2008, 2009, 2010, to play ping-pong with judges and prosecutors. That's why the reform, which the SNS is now conducting, is not good, and their reforms, which the Constitutional Court has assessed as unconstitutional, they are great. Or if you mention them, you get them to the wall, which our people would say, and then somehow they're looking to get away from that subject with no matter what. When a man has no results, no politics, no vision, no denial, one citizen can cheat, just once, and it seems to me to be the biggest problem of Dragan Gilas. He can't fool anyone anymore, absolutely no one. And that is why he is most concerned with the reforms carried out by SNS and Alexander Vukic. Let him run his politics, we'll do ours. Let it be clear to him, only the elections come to power in Serbia. No more burning the assembly. No more breaking into state institutions. With that story, Serbia ended. When someone has more votes than the SNS, we will admit the result, but make sure that every election will be preserved by the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12367	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12368	Thank you. The honourable representatives of the promoters, the honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow MPs, certainly that the proposals and the staff solutions concerning judicial and judicial functions have been discussed here many times and discussed. I do not want to repeat myself and to re-expose my discussions here from before, for the simple reason that I think that in the previous presentations of fellow Members of the People's Parliament, you could hear what is the essence and what are about somewhere the demands of not the Members of the People, but the citizens of Serbia. For many years now, we have a situation where people who have made enormous wealth at the expense of Serbian citizens have not been responsible for it. We have a situation where people who have entered politics with 70,000 euros, the wife's house and the used car "Saab", such as the example of Dragan Gilas, today have only in real estate over 20m euros. It is very difficult for Serbian citizens to explain how all this is achieved in about 10 years, as many as they were able to lead both Belgrade and Serbia in the DS regime. So in that direction, I don't want to be too long at this part of the discussion today, for the simple reason I would say anything else would be a repeat. But I really want the people we choose today, if we talk about candidates and these certain human solutions, just to stick to the letters of the law and always work in the citizens' interest and always work in Serbia's interest and to treat everyone in that way. The only thing I would wish them also is happiness, because one part of the opposition, primarily this part of the opposition led by Dragan Gilas, will be exposed to any kind of pressure. They were also inclined to lead the country, and they are particularly inclined to do so today when one part of the most aggressive opposition and group of politicians who, by some kind of aggression, want to return to power. What is more important to me today and I haven't had the opportunity to discuss as much as I do about justice, is the RIK composition and it is something that awaits us very quickly, which is the April 3rd election. I think colleagues before me discussed it and talked about how many concessions were made to the opposition so that they would finally get the courage and go to the polls and once and for all resolve this dilemma for the citizens of Serbia, and that is how many people support them in the first place. Even that 3%-looking censorship is unattainable to them, so they've been trying so far with strange and never in the world to find an excuse for not going to the elections. However, when all 36 requirements are accepted today, you can see that their rhetoric has changed dramatically and that they are now going into more concrete threats of violence, and they are also warning us that the SNS on April 3rd must never celebrate victory or say that it won those elections. Why am I saying all this? For the simple reason that in the past few years, Serbia has recorded growth in every respect and sense. I'm talking about that positive growth, even though they're trying to get into imaginary affairs or some kind of untrue... They try to lie, deceive, show the results they had when they were in power. And it comes to you as a result of the lack of any policy. I apologize again for this lapus, they threw me out of the back row. In a desire to say that those debts they left behind must never be repeated to any generation in the future. When you don't have any results, when you can't compete with the results achieved by the SNS, primarily led by President Alexander Vukic's policy, then you have to make up, make up some lies, untrues, and try to reduce that result in false affairs. And if you take into account that they're running today for three people whose biggest recommendation is that they've ruined our country, you see how pointless their policy is today. There has never been a situation in our country where people go into a pre-election campaign by promising you what it will bring down or what it will reduce. It is amazing that today, Marinika Tepic, a candidate for prime minister, gives you information and says that when they come to power, the doctor's salary will be 1,000 euros. It is amazing that she does not know that today is for doctors who specialize in this amount from 1020 to 1450 euros. If they were referring to doctors of general practice, they today have a salary of 950 euros. I don't know what kind of brilliant policy they have that promises to raise just 50 euros? For citizens to know, for the sake of truth, today's nurse's salary is at the level of doctors of general practice in the time of Dragan Gilas. Only this data and this sphere of our lives and society make it clear to you how advanced our economy is today, stronger, more stable, and how we have all succeeded together with the citizens of Serbia, as one big team, to advance and to work. What's very interesting is that today, colleagues discussed it, is the fact that the mayor was running for mayor by a man who says he's not competent and that he can't do it. Not wanting to get into his age and whether he thinks he's capable or not, but those things and those statements changed from week to week. What's problematic is that this man didn't even become mayor, and he already started dividing citizens into first and second-class citizens. So on one show, where they came up with some famous proposal to move Stefan Nemanja's memorial to Marinko's bar, we come into a situation where they laugh at it and make citizens and Marinko's bars, but they also treat Borce as second-class citizens, and in that way they tried to belittle them somehow. I just don't understand what kind of message it is to the citizens, and I especially don't understand what that message is, if it comes from a man who claims to be the first man responsible for every resident in Belgrade, but also from those people who come to our city. Also, I don't understand how someone who says to himself that doesn't understand how the city of Belgrade works, someone who doesn't understand how the city's enterprises operate and someone who doesn't know the system of functioning the city of Belgrade says for himself -- well, okay, I'm not an expert on it, but I'll still find a team that can do it. I think that's where all the irresponsibility of the people who claim to return to power today is looked at. Most of all, it shows you how much they don't care about the development of Belgrade and Serbia and how much they care about the chair and the personal interest and the continued wealth. But what especially echoed today is the fact that as much as we try to make the electoral conditions at the request of that part of the opposition and the general opposition who objected that the electoral conditions they created were not at their will... We were often able to hear that they didn't respond to media representation, so they said they wanted to have their own terms both on RTS and on TV, that they felt they had to have at least an hour of direct inclusion. When concrete calls were made to participate in some shows, their champion Zoran Lutovac announced today – "this time I was invited to Radio Belgrade to talk about relations with China and the United States. If I accept it, it will be recorded as the participation of the opposition on the state media, and if I do not accept it, it will be recorded as refusing the opposition to participate." Dear citizens of Serbia, I am only now interested in whether this is in line with what they were looking for or yet it just proves that they simply don't know what they're going to do by themselves and that they don't have any plan and programme to offer to Serbian citizens. I think it's normal for people who claim to return to power, but also who want to participate in the political life of Serbia, people who want to deal with politics, who will participate in the election process, to think it's normal to participate in such shows and I think it's normal to fight for a word, to fight for their opinion. Apparently, they have nothing to offer the citizens but naked hatred for Alexander Vukic, and they run away from these shows they themselves advocated. In the end, I want to invite citizens and Belgrade and Serbia to go to the elections on 3 April, to decide for themselves who they will support, and I am confident that the results we have achieved as SNS, as one team led by President Aleksandar Vukic, are sufficient to give us confidence, because everything we have achieved guarantees that the vision we have and the promises we now make in the campaign will surely be fulfilled, and all in the interest of creating a better tomorrow for all our children and generations to come. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12369	Thank you, Mr. Mirkovic. The next on the list is Professor Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12370	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. Dear guests, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, my distinguished colleagues today spoke of everything we have done as a majority in this House and as a SNS on the promotion of electoral conditions and many times so far, for these, let's say, seven years, proved how democratic capacity and even more national capacity of the SNS, since we have one kind of precedent that we are discussing today and we will certainly adopt, and that is that even out-of-parliament parties will be part of the RIK, which is not necessarily even much more developed countries and countries that they have, let's say so, a much longer democratic tradition than the Republic of Serbia, but it's another kind of breadth of the party that is the most numerous and largest, definitely, in the territory of Southeast Europe, which, I must say, is the only one that has a clear programme in the Republic of Serbia, a political platform for the future, not a political platform for the third or fourth April, so that we don't have any political and we against them. Dragan Gilas is not our political opponent. So these are people who have been representing one longer period of time as an opposition. These are people who want and don't hide it anymore to come to power in a violent way, or to come to power again in the Republic of Serbia without any political agenda, without any political agenda, with the help of foreign centres of power, thinking, saying, exactly what they say, not about October 6th, but about April 4th, which clearly and metaphorically shows and determines that they don't want elections, they don't want better election conditions, they don't want dialogue, they don't want a conversation and a constructive debate about how Serbia will look, how we're going to economically develop our country, how we're going to get to as many jobs as possible, but to go back to that policy they realized by 2012. It's hard for me and I don't get to say hard words, but robbing this country, made it a tycoon-political oligarchy, a country that didn't have its independence and didn't function on its own in full capacity. That's what they're talking about and there's a difference between the main SNS, between our President Alexander Vukic and that so-called. A boycott opposition that only thinks about power, who only thinks it's going to come to the budget and how it's going to use people's money for its own purposes, how it's going to fill its pockets and one narrow circle of people who's tied to them. Of course, we are ready and I have to make one clear distinction and on another basis, which is that there are oppositions and there are political parties with which we are fierce political opponents and we differ ideologically and in terms of economic development, socialism, everything that assumes social development and how this society should look in the future. These are parties that did not want foreign intermediaries in this dialogue with the SNS, which have that feeling, enough state-owned enough to have problems that we have within our country, know that we should talk in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that decisions should be made together without interference and without anyone on the side. Those who learned to get orders on the side, those who learned to be... The Americans have a nice term, a term for it – the Pope, the dolls of foreign power centers. The first thing they did is they said -- well, we're not going to negotiate the future of our country with our colleagues, with our political opponents, no, but we're going to call for help from abroad, people who are going to help us, and that's the agenda for several years to come to power without a choice, without voting, without the election will of all those who have to go to elections and vote, that according to the civilization's achievements of the 21st century, they express their will, that they have the right to choose and that they all have the right to be elected, they do not agree. They are also today preparing the ground and talking about some alleged, potential malfeasance over the electoral process and at the level of elections for the president of the Republic and at the level of parliamentary elections, elections for the city of Belgrade, and are in fact political hollows. Their only wish is to remove President Aleksandar Vukic as a personification of the progress and development of the Republic of Serbia, which is their biggest obstacle to doing what they did from 2000 to 2012. It is simply two concepts of Serbia, if we can talk about concepts, because here you have a clear political programme, a clear political platform, ten points adopted at the SNS Assembly, ten points for the future of Serbia, an independent Serbia, an independent decision-making, an economically strong country, a agriculturally strong country, the protection of our country's vital national interests and the daily struggle for the integrity of our citizens, our country, the care of Serbs living outside the Republic of Serbia, the unsecured concern and the right to do so, because it is the right of all other peoples here in the environment and in the neighbourhood. Aleksandar Vukic is the only one in the history of this country and this region who went to Moscow and Beijing and to Washington and Brussels and Berlin and said that Serbia has a legitimate right to take care of its countrymen and its brothers and sisters living outside the Republic of Serbia, that it will help them economically, that we will work on modernising the entire region and thus on the stability of the entire region. And he doesn't accidentally talk so often about stability and how important it is to tell the fact that Serbia today is the champion of investment. I watched one of his interviews two days ago, imagine, in what is said to be an economic, pajplain, we have 7.3 billion euros in investment in the infrastructure of new factories, new jobs. Serbia is no longer the champion of sports alone, Serbia is the champion of the economy. Serbia is the champion of culture. Serbia has the potential to be a champion in many areas of social life, not only on Western Balkan territory, but on the level of Europe as a whole. We did all this thanks to the vision and the one state and leadership of President Alexander Vukic who, I said, aims to realise the plans "Serbia 2025", "Serbia 2030", large infrastructure plans, large infrastructure works, attention and focus on the demographic structure of our population and our country. It's serious stuff and it's a serious political platform. It is very good news that young people will again, that Serbia is strong enough, economically strong enough to get another 100 euros in the summer. And don't let us listen to all those who criticized and criticized such a move during the pandemic. Look at some much more developed countries, both here and in Europe, and in America, they haven't stopped giving these so-called. A helicopter couple helping young people, helping entrepreneurs. It was all Serbia's work, but with one clear goal, to maintain the economy, to improve economic and business conditions in this country, to improve and preserve the health system, to build a hospice of hospitals, to build clinical centres, to take care of both nurses and doctors who should stay here and do their job with dignity for high wages. This will bring exactly the 7.3 billion euros that we have for the next few years, it will bring exactly the possibility and conditions for their profits to be even higher than it is now, and the average salary of doctors is 120,000 dinars. The average salary in the Republic of Serbia is around 600 euros, in Belgrade 740 euros. This country is changing so drastically that simply all those who are well-intentioned, as well as people who come from the EU, and they say that such a policy and such policy balance, in particular the foreign policy of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic, has just contributed to this model of development and this kind of strong development and results and this percentage of people's employment, new investments. One very beautiful and big news that went well under the radar is that Prime Minister Ana Brnabic signed an agreement in Switzerland a few days ago to build a centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution in Serbia. We're here thanks to SNS and Alexander Vukic we almost skipped one. So, we're from a country that's been completely economically devastated, it's had a leave of absence, no one appreciated it in Europe, they've been playing with us, we've been the source of various manipulations and realizations of the interests of other countries that have realised here interests in our country and region, we're talking about a very successful digitisation, we're talking about artificial intelligence, we're talking about 1.4 billion euros made by the IT sector in our country, we're talking about young people who trust in SNS and the Republic of Serbia and Alexander Vukic. It's an example of this young guy who sold his company from Novi Sad and who didn't have to pay taxes on it in this country, but he saw and knows that his tax money will go to new highways, knows that he'll go to railways, knows that he'll go to school, knows that he'll go to kindergartens, to better social protection and to a socially responsible state. In fact, it's the quality of the SNS, that it has just succeeded, as well as in foreign policy, to find a balance between strong and strong economic development and economic recovery and one responsible, good and quality social policy, but that gives right for everyone and a distraction, especially young people to work here, to stay here, to pay taxes, to base their families. That is why Serbia will have many more people and many more people in decades than it is now, thanks to this very Vucic who is now thinking about what will happen in 2050 or 2060, as he also thought about energy security. Imagine those who pressured, spoke, criticised President Vukic, then prime minister, why he does not impose sanctions on the Russian Federation, why we do not imitate our foreign policy with the EU. Imagine he did it. Would Serbia today be paying gas at one quarter of the stock market price, and the stock market price is about $989 currently on today. We're paying $275. Because of that, our citizens have nothing to worry about, there is nothing to worry about. Investors have nothing to worry about, and therefore we are the only country in the world where, during the pandemic, no investor interested in investing in this country has given up Serbia. No one gives up on Serbia, everyone wants to go to Serbia. Everyone wants to see what Serbia has done over the past few years and see that economic miracle. We should not, in my opinion, be falsely modest not to say that we are the economic tiger of this region, that we should boast of "Belgrade on Water". What is the success of a single economy, one state when you have in our capital, that's pride, one "Belgrade on water" that everyone admires, who the whole world admires, when you have infrastructure projects and the start of building a subway, for the first time without much talk, a lot of work, a lot of energy, a lot of action? Ten thousand euros costs a meter square in "Belgrade on Water". That gives motive and it's bought. This is where people who want to invest, who want to spend time in this country and buy because they know that Serbia is a stable country, because they know what they can expect from both this government and this state in the next year and the next five and ten years. It's the first time in history that we're so stable and we've done so many results on the economy. What do we have on the other side? Which is second, I can't call it a political concept, because there is no policy. Not for a moment in the past few years have we been able to talk to these people about politics, because there is no politics, because there is no ideology, there is no economy, there is nothing. There's just a desire to crash, there's just a statement of a guy -- we're going to bring down "Belgrade on the Water", we're going to take down the subway, we're going to take down all that. I guess they're gonna take down these hundreds of miles of highways. I guess they'd take it down, too, and I guess they'd blow up the railroad just because he did it and did Alexander Vukitch. My colleagues talked a lot about it, devoted a lot of time, but I have to mention once again that the shameful behaviour of these candidates, especially the mayoral candidate for Belgrade and this director Goran Markovic, towards people living on the edges of Belgrade, towards people living inside. Imagine now the grotesque of this whole story that a man named Dragan Ristic, the frontman of the group "Kal", wrote a letter to the same Goran Markovic and this one answered him. He's still convinced that they're superior, that they're better than the people who live in Marinko's bar, who live in Borca, in Krgnaca, that they're better than us living in Zemun, they're better than the people who live in Ruma. I didn't know and it's good that they said that they would strip themselves and that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia would probably see that Professor Aleksandar Martinovic is worse than them just because he lives in Ruma, and he can teach them not only from constitutional law, from legal science, but from history and many other disciplines, but also from skill, because, and many of us here, they're not from articles, of course. When you have such, and I cannot say, they are not political opponents, it is clear that our struggle will simply be our strategy and plan for April 3rd is what we have done and what we are going to do for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, according to everything we can see, and of course it is available to us, support these people and those politicians in an attempt just as much as they do, of course, and deserve. That's why they're getting worse, that's why they're getting more nervous, because their support is being measured as a statistical error. Only when something can be united, possibly, by some research I've seen, to cross the census, but far from it. I think when they see some support and what plebiscite support President Aleksandar Vukic has with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that they simply do and say these things that are not, let's say, in that language, politically correct, but they are not normal at all. So that's not normal behavior for the citizens of this country and for the people whose votes you should get. Even if they don't vote for you what's essential is to be a politician responsible and decent man, which, of course, they're absolutely not entitled to. I'm going to end with -- what's the answer to what's been going on not only in the past two, three weeks, two, three months, but this brutal dehumanisation campaign has been going on for years, unfortunately. I hope today we have a choice of judges and prosecutors, that the judicial authorities will solve many of those things that we are concerned about here as MPs. I don't think we should hide behind anything, but openly say that it is in the interest of this state and in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and of this Parliament, to investigate all those attempts and all that has been done, in terms of the co-operation and coordination of the transversal between international organised crime, international centres of power and our people here, domestic in our institutions, in terms of endangering the lives of President Alexander Vukic. That's something that son of a bitch has been in for all day and the whole justice system is about to pass its exam. That's the way it is for me. I am not a lawyer, but for me it will be a signal whether it is the judiciary and whether the judicial authorities, judges and prosecutors are independent, whether they are capable, whether they are effective when we are given answers to these questions. What's Alexander Wolfie's answer? The answer is visit to China, the answer is the result. The answer is the announcement of a free trade agreement with the People's Republic of China that will give more wind in the back of our economy, make this country even more attractive for new investments, for new jobs, for companies around the world that will come here and invest, because it will be easier to export their goods and services to the People's Republic of China which is one huge market, one huge unsettled meadow, when it comes to economic, IT and all other opportunities. That's what he's actually offering, briefly in one sentence, Alexander Vukic, SNS to this country and these citizens. With each result, from each meeting the result, from each agreement a new kilometer of highway, a new job and these salon quasi politicians will never be able to reach. We will, of course, continue to strongly support our president. As I said last time, he did raise a tall scale, but I think we will succeed in following him in a strong campaign for better Serbia, for the future of our children and for the defence of our national and vital interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12371	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Vuk Mircetic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12372	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear guests, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the SNS is a party that came from the people, and therefore it is important for us to work on further strengthening of all institutions, as well as judicial institutions, institutions that will work both for the people and for the people and most of today's points are also relevant to those who should work on behalf of the people. Today, we are talking about the judiciary and today's points, most of them refer to the choice of judges who are first elected to the judge's office and prosecutors. In the previous period, colleagues talked a lot about it at today's session, but also at previous sessions, the people somehow lost confidence in the judiciary and that's what we've been working on for years and it's not a bad reminder, a colleague who was today an authorised representative of the Legislator Vucic Group – for our children, Mr. Dejan Kesar talked about that disastrous reform of the 2009 judiciary when 850 judges were out of work. The reform cost our country 44.7m euros, but on the other hand and today we are still recovering from it. This was the period, if you remember, when the DS identified party bodies with municipal authorities, their municipal committees with municipalities and the Association of Judges of Serbia sent a letter to the Journal of Politics, i.e. to the information that they had come into possession of a single document, i.e. the decisions of the Municipal Committee of DS Vlasotince proposed by some candidates for judges, and the only recommendation and the only criterion was whether they were attached to DS, whether they were trying etc. They even wrote for one of the candidates – he's not interested in politics, but he's cooperative. To make things even more interesting, this party decision had two stamps on it. On the one hand, in the lower left corner was the seal DS, and on the lower right was the seal of the Municipality of Vlasotince. We see here that the DS, the representatives of the former regime, identified both the party and the party bodies and the republican authorities, or the municipal authorities. Fortunately, the results achieved today by Serbia, led by Alexander Vukic's policy, are certainly for pride. We need to ask ourselves whether we want to go back to that previous period, the period of the former regime, or whether we want to move on. We are today struggling to restore citizens' trust and not only when it comes to the judiciary, but generally, when it comes to all institutions. People see change today. Simply, when Aleksandar Vukic comes out with a statement and says that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will get some financial assistance, they will get that financial aid. When Aleksandar Vukic comes out and says Serbia will build 10 highways and a fast road, Serbia today is building 10 roads and fast roads. Here, let's ask which state can boast of that fact. Simply, our people today know Alexander Vukic when he comes out and when he says something about something being something, that's how it is. Unlike those who simply did not care about how citizens live, we are working actively today to increase both wages and pensions and thus make it possible for all of our citizens to live better. Let's remind ourselves and compare the salaries from a previous period. Here, you can see well on camera in 2014, when Aleksandar Vukic became prime minister of government, the average salary was 330 euros. Just a few years later, this year, we have a January projection, we wait for the report, in January the average salary is expected to be 610 or 615 euros. We put 610 euros here. So you see what the average salary increase is for less than eight years. On the other hand, when we talk about average wages, we have to mention those on the front line because of this pandemic of the coronary virus, here, for almost two years, the average salary of a specialist doctor. It is very interesting that individual candidates, individual representatives of the former regime, who today want to come to power and run for elections, say that when they come to power, the average salary of a specialist doctor will be 1000 euros. Well, why cut their salary, it's already 1,000 euros. We have graphs here that show it. In 2011, the average salary of a specialist doctor was 609 euros, in 2022, 1020 euros. If we're talking about the red zone, the Covid Zone 2022 in the red zone is the average salary of a specialist doctor in 1548 euros. If we talk about nurses, and the salary increase in nurses was the largest in 2011, the nurse made an average of 282 euros, earning 522 euros this year. That's over 80% increase in nurses' salary. If we're talking about the red zone, the average nurse's salary is 674 euros. These are some of the facts we're talking about today. It is also very important to remind that healthcare professionals received 10,000 dinars of financial assistance in January, because we want to show health care professionals that we are grateful for everything they did in the previous period. It's also important to us to show that we're thinking about pensioners. Here comes the payment of 20,000 dinars to all pensioners tomorrow. Our older citizens are important to us for a number of reasons, first of all, we inherited this country from them, on the one hand, and on the other hand they understood those difficult measures of financial consolidation and therefore we have to show that we as a state are also responsible for them and that we are there for them. But sometimes young people ask me why we think so much of our older citizens, why we give so much to pensioners, why they get nothing from the state. I will immediately remind that all full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia last year and received financial assistance from the state, but this year it is the first time that the state has shown that it is also thinking about those who are not full-time. So all citizens of the Republic of Serbia from 16 to 29 years of age have received 100 euros in aid from the state. Even nearly a million and 20,000 young people have applied for this kind of help. Why does it matter? The young won't get rich from it, but he'll take that money as his money, as the money they've earned and he'll know they appreciate it, he'll know that the state is there for them, that the state on the other hand appreciates them. These are some facts we're talking about. I've only listed some. It's very important that we remind ourselves, and we've always talked about it, and we've called on how many factories were opened in the previous period, jobs, here, now, how many investors we're currently communicating with, and what investments are expecting us in the next period. So these are the facts, these are the results, these are the plans we have for the future. Now you have a situation that those as a united democratic party, I think even their slogan, want to come back to power. Since they also know about these facts that we have talked about, since they know what it was like when they were in power, and like now, and they have no political programme that they could offer, except of course hatred for President Alexander Vukic, threats from the occasional ones, can also be said by the common ones, etc. They need to invent something, because they don't have any political program. When you ask them what they're offering, they say one of the things they offer is that they want to move the monument to Stefan Nemanja in Marinck's bar and Borch. That's a very interesting two things. On the one hand, you see the attitude of these people towards the history and tradition of the Republic of Serbia, and on the other hand you see that the attitude of these people towards the citizens of Marinkova Bara and Borca. I ask – why are the people of Marinko Bar and Borca, in their opinion the citizens of the second row, why are they less important than the people who suggest that Stefan Nemanja be moved to Marinko Bar and Borch? Maybe because they live in apartments that are less luxurious or so, they don't court certain groups, etc. We have even had individual reactions and Roma associations, Roma representatives to such statements and they are absolutely right. We simply cannot allow anyone in the Republic of Serbia to feel like a second-class citizen wherever they live. After that, when they tried to make another statement, they said – okay, we will transfer the monument to central Serbia. So wait, central Serbia is less important than some other parts of the city where they live? Then you have a situation for Marinika Tepic to make a statement and say that when they come to power, they will break contracts with different investors, they will drive Chinese investors out of Serbia, etc. And on the one hand, as we sign contracts with China, agreements with China, and allow our people to advance our people, they would drive Chinese investors from Serbia. What does that mean for our people? On the one hand, at least five plus ten thousand layoffs, so less jobs. We're talking about Smederev, Podunav County, and then let people move out of Bor later, and the investment "Ling Long" of 800 million is also for free. So, the best thing to do is to stop everything in Serbia, because everything Alexander Vukic does for them is not good just because Alexander Vukic suggested it. I ask – does anyone know or has anyone heard that anywhere in the world, anyone is preparing for the campaign by forcing investors, by destroying monuments, by removing etc.? I honestly didn't. Unlike those who hide, they want to be behind, and yet to draw strings, because you see Gilas completely moved out of the whole story, most likely will be on their list, but he won't be there in front, but wait, why did he move out if he was a good mayor and if he thought he was a good mayor, why wasn't he running for mayor again, if he already said it was all right for himself? So unlike those who declare victory already, and the elections are not even called, and they also talk about how the elections were stolen, SNS is the only party that will run for results in the upcoming elections, because it's important that we follow the results, to follow everything we've done. We follow absolutely everything we did in the previous period, we have brochures where we show clearly what was before, what was going to happen after and what were our plans. We are the only party with clear principles of the political programme that we will go to elections with. We're proud of absolutely everything we've done so far. If we're talking about those roads and fast traffic, it's 1,200 kilometers of highways and fast traffic that are currently being built, despite the pandemic of the coronary virus. Despite the pandemic of the coronary virus, I have to show this too, we have growth. Here you see the comparison between the two periods. The first period is from 2008 to 2012. I pray from the director, if it is not only a problem to zoom in, because it is very important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to see, because this is the main indicator which is the difference between the period of rule of the former regime and the rule of law of the SNS. So, from 2008 to 2012, we see that cumulative growth was 4.91%, and in 2017 to 2021, cumulative growth was 18.55%, while average growth was 3.46%. These are the facts we're talking about today, and these are clear indicators of SNS policy. For all those who have fallen mentally behind in some previous period and, of course, the most important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is important to know that the election result depends primarily on the people, because this is another country compared to when they were in power. This is Serbia, which runs free policy and independent policy. No tycoons decide here, no street decisions, no citizens of the Republic of Serbia decide here. That's the policy President Alexander Vukic is fighting for. So, work on the ground, working with the citizens, working with the citizens of the second order, having no citizens of the front row, all citizens are equal, that citizens of Marinkova Bare, Borce, Ripnja, Jajina, all others do not feel any discomfort when representatives of the former regimes who today want to run for office talk about them. I think, for the very end, that politics should be seen as one tool that allows us to change certain things. If we're dealing with politics, we need to think about what it is that's been changed thanks to us, which wouldn't be changed or it wouldn't be possible if we weren't here and we weren't performing some position we're taking. The political program you represent, first of all, is necessary to believe. That's what I'm saying for a number of reasons. Due to the results and the above, there are no wonders about the support of a large number of celebrities, significant personalities, first and foremost those who have been made, Alexander Vukic. I honestly believe in the policy led by President Aleksandar Vukic, and I believe that it is the only and proper way and the path we need to go. That is why on the one hand I supported President Alexander Vukic's policy and why I will continue to support it in the coming period. I'm taking this opportunity to remind the people that the election result depends solely on them. Let them compare everything that the representatives of the former regime did, did, and what the results were, to what we did, with the results that we as representatives of the SNS have, but also with our plans and projects for the future. It is up to the people to make a decision for the future in the upcoming elections. The election is a matter of the future of all of us and, after all, the only limit is our dreams. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12373	Thank you. The word is Dr. Ugljesa Mrdić.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12374	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Orlic, distinguished guests at today's session, fellow MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we of the SNS are in favour of the rule of law. That's it, that's it now and that's it. But our political opponents, such as Dragan Gilas and Borko Stefanovic, do not advocate the rule of law, they advocate the tycoon rule, they advocate the rule of criminals and the rule of foreign ambassadors. They also advocate the rule of lies. In recent days, we have had opportunities to see clear evidence that Borko Stefanovic, Dragan Djilas and their fellows have begun to invent not only people, but also buildings. The latest example on Vrakar confirms that they invented a non-existent building, 6th Novopazarska Street, former Sima Milosevic Street, and they invented that there are some people living in that building and that these people living in that building are new SNS voters and Aleksandra Vukic, and there is no building. They were also denied by the M.O.P. So it just confirms how many liars they are. And not only are they liars, but they advocate their return to power, that Serbia and Belgrade once again be ruled by crime and corruption, as was the case in Serbia by 2012 and by the end of 2013 in Belgrade. Then, they make up a new 20, 30 voters on Emperor Nikolai 72 on Sorceress. They persistently harass several return families and persistently display in their photos an auxiliary facility as a residential facility. So it just confirms what they're up to. But fortunately, the people believe the results, and the people see what is done. Also, I would like to point out this occasion that I have been contacted by several Serb national families from Republika Srpska by this session. People are shocked and scared. Dragan Gilas threatens people from Republika Srpska, threatens people who exercise the right to Serbian citizenship, threatens people who are over Drina. So, Gilas, Borko Stefanovic and Dragan Solak began to share not only the citizens of Serbia who are for Vukic, and who is against, not only share the opposition, but now share Serbs who are from Serbia and who is from Republika Srpska. What does that look like? That, slightly speaking, is not normal. They're fascist methods. I hope that it will stop, but I also expect the competent institutions, from you to react, to protect every citizen of Serbia, to protect every family in Serbia, to have the right to have Serbian citizenship, to have the right to pride his origins in Republika Srpska, to have the right to live wherever he wants to live, whether in Vracara, in other Belgrade municipalities or in Novi Sad. As the new return resident Borko Stefanovic, ex Borislav, welcome to Vrakar. He's the only fictitious voter on the Wizard so far. I don't want to give him the address now. Welcome! But in their heads everyone who isn't for them wants his persecution. That's not normal. Go back to the results, go back to what's most important. The most important thing is that there will be assistance for young people worth about 100 euros, that our dear pensioners will receive 20,000 dinars, that by the end of the new Serbian government, the average salary will jump to about 1000 euros and the average pension of about 500 euros. We expect 92 new 7.3 billion euros investments, which will bring over 35,000 new jobs to Serbian citizens. So, Serbian citizens, we answer their lies, Gilas' lies. We're responding to our results. In the end, I am convinced that the people will say one great yes to the results, not to Gilas' lies, crime and corruption, and that the people will support those who are for unification, and we united and led by Alexander Vukic on April 3rd are going to a convincing victory. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12375	Thank you. Last on the list of reported, MP Adam Shukalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12376	Dear Vice President, taking care first of all of the weather, without any excessive introductions, to bend over, as did last session, to my esteemed colleague, Uglej Mrdić. I want to explain a few things about this topic that he opened, which we spoke about last week, where, if you remember correctly, all those who followed the direct transmission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, announced that this quasi opposition in the Republic of Serbia would now be engaged in new spin and new lies related to so-called. Imported voters and an accelerated procedure for obtaining the dual citizenship of Serbs from Republika Srpska, i.e. citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who have both the right to do so under the Dayton Peace Agreement and under the Agreement on special parallel ties. Here's a few things to repeat, given that they can't be bleached, to say, out of that living mud that they've entered themselves, but I have to say that by now, as far as I'm concerned with politics, which is almost 20 years old, I've never seen before that someone has thrown out such a political thesis and theme, which in this case is a complete lie, and that it's literally a living mud from which they can't possibly get out and sink every day more and more and more. In the direction of all the things that have been said so far, I want to apostrophe and what the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Serbia said, that, compared to last year in the city of Belgrade itself, we have just over 3,000 newly reported citizens of the Republic of Serbia with the place of residence in Belgrade, which also disproves the the thesis by which Gilas and Borko Stefanovic and all their media, portals, portals these days are swept up and trying to get out of the fungi that tried to impose as a single thesis, and they have sent a message to the citizens of Republika Srpska that has caused an undivided negative reaction to what Dragan Gilas said in terms of lies and has sent a message that they are not welcome to get double citizenship, and that they are also able to get a personal card and vote in the Republic of Serbia or diplomatic-consular representations, both in Bosnia and in the world. Here in this direction, let me just say a few things that are extremely important for this process, since they don't know anything, once again to educate them, and how complex. The process of obtaining the opportunity to vote in Serbia's elections implies a speedy procedure, but also six complex administrative procedures, from a requirement to hand over dual citizenship in the DKP network of Bosnia and Herzegovina to a check-in at the Ministry of the Interior, to enrolment in the citizens' home book, which unfortunately only happens in one municipality in Serbia, which is here in the Old Town municipality. So, you can't sign up anywhere in Serbia if you got dual citizenship in Republika Srpska, for example, at a consulate in Banja Luka, except for one municipality, and that's on the Old Town municipality, and that rule was invented during the former government. I also wouldn't mention it here in particular right now, but I have to say that the SNS in any way did not compromise this process, nor did it please anyone, unlike Vuk Jeremic, who, while he was foreign minister, in this case went to Banja Luka and directly took his passport to Milorad Dodik, took it to Banjaluk. It wasn't at all controversial back then. It is disputed that our citizens, who see Serbia progress, our students from Republika Srpska who want to get a scholarship here or I don't know, some pensioners or other categories to get 100 euros or young help, that this is also an affirmation for them, that for these reasons people come here, as well as for other economic reasons. I'm not happy about it, but the fact is that this migration process is also going in that direction, because in Serbia they not only see the backbone of stability, as queens, but also see their economic, life, family and every other perspective. On the other hand, what I also want to say is that, unlike the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, perhaps only 100,000 or 10%, Serbs from Republika Srpska have applied for dual citizenship, unlike the Croats who practically received it by automation, all of them, the housekeeper, Croatian votes in elections in the Republic of Croatia, and no one is asking that question. Of those 100,000 who have applied for dual citizenship, perhaps only 50,000 have obtained the right to double citizenship and even less have received a passport in Banja Luka, since you can get a passport there and a small number, a very small number, and this is the fact that only 4,000 voted last time by a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina who has citizenship and the Republic of Serbia on the previous general elections and ID card. To get a ID card, only when you pass all these kinds of procedures can technical, normatively, physically, is it possible for you to import some voters, so as some of these vans here invented that some people drive and they get double citizenship on the express line and enlist themselves in the voter lists. This is not possible because this procedure lasts in six administrative procedures and it is not possible for you to come here one day, although it would be perfectly fine for our citizens from Republika Srpska to allow one day, the administrative day in police stations, to come, that they do not have to wait like all citizens living in Serbia. I don't see what's so controversial that it even happened one day, but it doesn't happen. So, on that side and that thesis that they've brought out, in fact, normatively, is not possible in any way. Also, since I was accused last night by these portals of being someone who needed 30,000 new safe votes through this process that they explained was happening, under quotes, to import into Republika Srpska. Here, this personal route, now here from this pay phone, I invite any man from Republika Srpska, from Bosnia and Herzegovina, whom I over-ordered in the citizen's home book, to take out a passport or ID card. Let them report to their media, and let them announce it, not to me personally, that I'm taking a spin. So that's all lies. The Serbian Progressive Party doesn't do that. The Serbian Progressive Party, our leadership, Aleksandar Vukic takes care of Republika Srpska. He raised Serbia to healthy feet, held the Republika Srpska to not sink politically or economically, there will always be a brotherly hand, someone to rely on, someone we have to work with together, and we want to work both in pain and in peace, and in harmony, both when it's good and when it's hard. Never will our citizens, our people share in this way who is through Drina, who is not, who is imported and who is not. It's their rhetoric, it's their floscule, it's their policy that sent to Serbs who don't live in the Republic of Serbia a message that they are not welcome in the Republic of Serbia, that they are not welcome to build their future here and that they are not welcome for their political options. Therefore, in this case, we can only conclude this and say that in the next period of time we will work on as strong ties as possible with the Republika Srpska, as opposed to those who have disputed the process of obtaining dual citizenship and have introduced a 200-euro fee, so that we only have to pay 200 euros financially to apply for dual citizenship, that we will abolish these fees, speed up these processes, not in the electoral process, but every day and until the elections, and even after the elections. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12377	Thank you, Mr. Schucalo. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask – do they want the word of the president, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups? No, I don't. Thank you. I hereby conclude a joint principle and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 6 of the agenda. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Wednesday, February 9, 2022, starting at 4:00 p.m., as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the 17th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Thank you, everyone who participated in the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-1.u12378	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. I ask the Members of Parliament to insert the cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 191 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. First item of the agenda. I put to the vote the Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 10(1). The Law on Interoperability of the Railway System, with correction, in general. Please press the corresponding key. Final vote: total - 193, for - 193. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 10(1). The Law on Interoperability of the Railway System. Since we are now moving to a decision on election proposals, i.e. the termination of functions (points 2 to 5 of the agenda), I remind you that on the basis of Article 105, point 2 of point 12 and 13. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides to suspend the office of public prosecutors and elect judges and deputy public prosecutors by majority of the votes of all MPs. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. Second item of the agenda. I put to the vote a motion for a decision on the termination of the office of public prosecutors, in general. Please press the corresponding key. Final vote: total - 193, for - 193. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. Third item of the agenda. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office, who has submitted the High Council of the judiciary, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I conclude the vote: a total of -193, for – 192, was not voted by one MP. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Fourth item of the agenda. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office, who has submitted the High Council of the judiciary, in general. Please press the corresponding key. Finalising vote: total - 194, for - 194. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. The fifth item of the agenda. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of a deputy public prosecutor, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I conclude the vote: a total of -194, for -193, was not voted by one MP. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Let me congratulate on behalf of the MPs and on my own behalf the elected functionholders of the election and wish them a lot of success in their work. The sixth item of the agenda. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the resolution and appointment of the Republic Election Commission, in principle. Please press the corresponding key. I conclude the vote: a total of -194, for -193, was not voted by one MP. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, has accepted the motion for a decision, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. At point 2 of point 11 of the amendment was tabled by MP Djordje Milicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I conclude the vote: total - 194, for – 191, the three voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. At point 2 of point 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Samir Tandir. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I conclude the vote: total - 194, for – 189, did not vote five. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the motion for a decision, in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the resolution and appointment of the Republic Election Commission as a whole. Please press the corresponding key. Finalising vote: total - 194, for - 194. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the 17th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. As you know, reminding you at 5:00 is the tenth special session dedicated to the declaration of the Act of Amendment to the Constitution and constitutional law. Thank you.
